ParlaMint-DK_20170127100013	Good Friday, and welcome to the Assembly Hall meeting. It is Friday 27 January 2017 and today there is the following review: Søren Egge Rasmussen (EL) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 59 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the establishment of the Danish Ecological Agricultural Fund). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20170127100057	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 31 January 2017. Then I would like to give the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the question, Mr Beyer de Ryke. Søren Søndergaard, for reasons. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127100121	Today's request is not about for or against the kingdom. Nor is it about for or against the exclusion of Russia from the Olympic Games because of systematic and state-organised doping cheating. It is not really about whether or not the Crown Prince should be a member of the International Olympic Committee. There are differences of opinion on this, but a majority in the Folketing has accepted it at some point, and as long as that majority remains, it is just a factual starting point for the debate. But what is the question about? It is about what the government has done to live up to the promise made by the then Prime Minister Anders Fogh Rasmussen in approving the Crown Prince to the International Olympic Committee. For that was a very clear and unequivocal promise: but that situation came last summer, not about some detail, but about an inflamed major political issue about relations with Russia. On the one hand, the government called for the exclusion of Russia from the Olympics and was very active for it, and on the other hand both argued and voted the Crown Prince for the exact opposite. How could this happen? Was it because the government, contrary to Anders Fogh Rasmussens's promise, had not secured proper contact with the Crown Prince? Or was it because the Crown Prince didn't listen to the advice he received from the government? Or was it perhaps because the government really had one policy towards the public and another when they had to advise the Crown Prince, i.e. that the government played double-playing? I don't know. That is why I have also tried to clarify this through questions to the Prime Minister and the Minister for Culture, but none of them has shown special ability to express themselves in writing to express it diplomatically. That is why I am particularly looking forward to the Prime Minister's oral answer to this question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127100353	Thank you to the rapporteur, and here you go to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127100405	Thank you. The authors have asked me to inform you whether the Crown Prince's vote in the IOC on the exclusion of Russia from the Rio Olympic Games was really in line with government policy, including whether the government had informed the Crown Prince of the government's position prior to the vote, and whether the government considers it appropriate that the Crown Prince publicly works for the exact opposite of government official policy just to recall what the question is about. At least that's how it's introduced. I would like to thank you for the question and try to answer orally as best I can. And may I not start by saying that I think the Crown Prince is a fantastic representative of Denmark. I think many people agree with me on that. This also applies to the Crown Prince's membership of the IOC, i.e. the International Olympic Committee. He's doing a lot of work, among other things. in relation to young people and sport, and he is a firm and, I know, also much appreciated support for the Danish athletes when Denmark is fighting for medals, for example. at the Olympic Games. He is not least because he shows a sincere and heartfelt commitment to the athletes and their sport. I would remind you that the Crown Prince is not obliged to engage. He has then chosen to do so, and he does so under the conditions and with the limitations that his position in a constitutional monarchy like the Danish one makes necessary. I personally appreciate that very much, and I would be sincerely sorry if we had a less active and less open royal house. It would be a pity for the whole of Denmark. As the authors know, it follows from the Constitution that Denmark is a constitutional monarchy. In the Constitution it is expressed that the form of government is narrowed monarchically. This means that Denmark has a monarch as head of state, but that the members of the royal house have no competence to act in state affairs independently of the government and ministers. Therefore, in Denmark we have a long tradition that the royal house is not involved in political matters, just as the royal house regularly consults with the government. I think this is a good and proper tradition which supports the neutrality of the royal house in relation to political matters, but which at the same time leaves room for the members of the royal house to publicly express their personal views on other issues. The IOC is primarily about sport. The Crown Prince has been elected as a member of the IOC in his own capacity, not as a representative of the government. It's a personally funded membership. Already in connection with the Crown Prince's candidacy to the IOC, the government, in consultation with the Royal House, decided to set up an IOC coordination group in line with the tradition of consulting the government, as mentioned above. The task of the Coordination Group is thus to inform the Crown Prince of relevant policy issues and to discuss current themes in relation to the IOC and their possible political aspects. Should cases arise in the IOC, with which the government has a clear political attitude, the Crown Prince will therefore be able to be informed through the coordination group about the government's position, so that the neutrality of the royal house is maintained. However, it is important for me to stress that the IOC coordination group is by its very nature just one of several channels of communication to the royal house. There is, of course, ongoing contact between the government and the Royal House, also · and in particular via the Ministry of Culture · on sports policy issues. Sometimes the dialogue can, for example. do not wait for the coordination group to meet. Other times the dialogue just takes more informal form or takes more informal form, for example. because the Crown Prince or his advisors during the Olympic Games meet the Minister for Culture or other representatives of the Ministry of Culture. That's the way it is. The detailed content of the ongoing dialogue between the government and the royal house, by its very nature, I shall not comment on. On the other hand, I would like to make it clear that the Danish Government is strongly opposed to doping, and I have noted, moreover, that the Crown Prince has made public several times that he shares the same view. However, issues relating to the fight against doping and the detailed content of government policy do not fall within my remit, but within the remit of the Minister for Culture. On the Danish Government's policy in this area, including the work to strengthen the rules, so that it will be possible to effectively exclude countries that cheat in international competitions, I should therefore refer to the Minister for Culture. This also applies to the coverage in the latest McLaren report, which shows that the situation with Russia is worse than we feared. The case of whether Russia as a nation should be excluded from the Rio Olympics in the summer of 2016, I will not go into any further, but I know that it was the IOC Executive Committee that decided on this and the Crown Prince is not a member of the IOC Executive Committee, so he has not participated in that decision. Let me also make one thing clear before any questions are asked on this subject: I do not consider it appropriate, for reasons of principle, to deal with individual statements in the media by members of the Royal House, but I would like to stress that, in my view, the Crown Prince's membership of the IOC has not been an obstacle to the government's ability to conduct its sporting policy, including in an international context. Finally, I should like to take this opportunity today to stress that the government believes that the Crown Prince has managed his membership of the IOC in an appropriate and satisfactory manner. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127101012	You're welcome. I thank the Prime Minister for his answer. We are embarking on the debate where the first rapporteur is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127101023	I hardly shock the Prime Minister by saying that I am not entirely satisfied. I mean, it was a little extravagant, like... the decision was taken by the IOC Executive Committee, and yes, it came to approval where the Crown Princess was present and where an English athletes or representatives of the athletes spoke out. So it was just a few formalistic things that do not relate to the real content. The work and decisions of the Olympic Committee have always been imbued with politics. Whether we are talking about the holding of the Olympic Games in the Nazi dictatorship of Germany in 1936 or we are talking about Russia's participation in the Rio Olympics this summer, politics has always been involved. And it was also a discussion when the Crown Prince was presented with proposals as a candidate for the IOC, because is it compatible to be a politically neutral crown prince, as the Prime Minister rightly says, and future king in a constitutional monarchy such as the Danish one, and at the same time to be a member of a committee that makes explosive and deeply political decisions? Originally there were many who were skeptical, among others. the then Conservative sports rapporteur, Brian Mikkelsen, who said, and I would like to quote: Crown Prince Frederik should not be sucked into politically inflamed decisions. The work of the IOC can be extremely controversial, and I would be afraid that the Crown Prince will be taken hostage in a passionate discussion about, for example, the death penalty. doping. Despite this almost prophetic prediction, a majority in the Danish Parliament accepted Brian Mikkelsen, it must be said that the Crown Prince eventually entered the IOC. But the scepticism was taken into account, and the discussion led to something, namely that the then Prime Minister Anders Fogh Rasmussen made his promise to ensure that there is no contradiction between what the government stands for, what the government says and what the Crown Prince says and does. And the Prime Minister doesn't relate to the fact that there has been. The Prime Minister mentions the IOC's so-called coordination group, which the Fogh Government set up in 2008 to ensure this. There were various assessments of whether this would work, but there is no doubt that it was precisely the promise to set up the group from the then Prime Minister, who at that time brought the matter to rest. I think there are people in this Chamber who can confirm that. And what has happened to this IOC coordination group? I also think that the Prime Minister is very unclear. Yes, at first it seems to have worked well, but then it began slowly to fuse out, and it was not just under the current government, it was also under the former Thorning government. According to a reply we have received, the last meeting of the coordination group was held in January 2014. That was three years ago! We can then say that there are other channels, but the coordination group set up by the Fogh Government to keep that contact has therefore de facto stopped working. Moreover, it cannot be stated how many meetings it has held during its term or when it has been held because no minutes are taken from the meetings. It can therefore be said that what happened this summer was a perfectly predictable thing, namely that at some point we would find ourselves in a situation where the Crown Prince put forward one line and the government another. Therefore, as far as all the other contacts to which the Prime Minister refers are concerned, we must note that they have not worked. I would like to point out that we do not blame the Crown Prince; we blame the changing governments who have failed the promise made by the then Prime Minister to the Danish Parliament and who have clearly neglected their duty of supervision in this area. That is why, of course, the crucial question is also how to avoid getting back into that situation. I did not really hear any proposals from the Prime Minister there, but perhaps we could have them repeated. There is, of course, the possibility of the Crown Prince withdrawing from the IOC, but there is a majority, and we have complete respect for that, and we think he should listen to that too. But otherwise it must be up to the government to ensure a much closer relationship with the royal house in order to prevent us from coming back into such a situation where official representatives of Denmark put forward different political lines on foreign policy issues. The most obvious thing would be to recreate the coordination group, which has not met for three years, and put them to work actively. On behalf of Enhedslisten, Alternativet og SF, I shall make the following: Proposal for adoption • Further to this summer's discussion on Russia's participation in the Rio Olympic Games, the Danish Parliament expresses its agreement with the then Prime Minister Anders Fogh Rasmussen's statement to the Danish Parliament that the Crown Prince in his work in the IOC must refrain from taking an independent position, which, for example, would be contrary to Danish policy in the field. Similarly, the Danish Parliament expresses its agreement on the then Prime Minister's reasons for setting up a so-called "IOC coordination group', namely to ensure that the Crown Prince is constantly informed of what is the government's political line in Denmark, so that there is no contradiction between what the government stands for and what the Crown Prince says. The Folketing urges the government to pay attention to the words of the former Prime Minister and to take the necessary steps to ensure that no conflict arises again between the policy pursued by the government and the Crown Prince. • V 30).
ParlaMint-DK_20170127101647	Thank you. A proposal for adoption has now been tabled and, as I said at the outset, the proposal for adoption will be put to the vote on Tuesday 31 January, but of course it will be included in the debate. And I'm gonna have to ask, sir. Søren Søndergaard to come back up here, for there are two brief comments. While the rapporteur is coming up here again I just had to get some documentation), I would just like to appeal to all of us to help each other to get the question settled within the number of minutes that it has been agreed that you have when you hold your rapporteur's speech. The first, with a brief comment, is Mr. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127101728	Thank you. I would like to ask Enhedslisten's rapporteur if we are now completely ignoring this matter, i.e. if we are now talking in general: is it in the view of Enhedslisten's rapporteur that the government in Denmark should actively interfere in what the IOC decides?
ParlaMint-DK_20170127101751	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127101752	No, you should not, but you must ensure that the Crown Prince is kept fully informed of what is the Danish position in all the issues that may contain political explosives. And then you have to assume, as Mr. Anders Fogh Rasmussen clearly made it clear that in areas where the government considers that there is political explosives, the Crown Prince adheres to that line in order not to get into a situation where, with Anders Fogh Rasmussen's words, there are different lines among the government on the one hand and the Crown Prince on the other.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127101826	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127101827	Well, then we come to that with the government, as Mr. Søren Søndergaard, and a broad majority in the Danish Parliament who agreed on this. That's how I've heard it quoted... isn't it correct? Now it was here on 24 July, and there was nothing going on here in the Folketing and hadn't done it since the day of the Constitution. How does Mr. Søren Søndergaard, that there was a broad majority in the Danish Parliament for all Russian athletes to be banned from the Olympics on July 24th last year?
ParlaMint-DK_20170127101903	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127101904	I do not know anything about this, and it is also completely irrelevant, because foreign policy is conducted by the government by means of major foreign policy decisions after consultation with the foreign policy name. This is clear from the Constitution. So the government's position was completely clear. It was not the case that we had a government that was asked such a little by accident: what do you really mean? No, we had a Minister of Culture who went down completely actively in the European Union and worked for Russia to be excluded. He worked with the Danish Sports Association, with Anti Doping Denmark, with WADA and all agreed that Russia should be excluded because of this. I have asked the Prime Minister: does the Minister for Culture express the government's line on this question? And the Prime Minister has answered: Yes, he does.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127101953	The next short remark is Mr. Leif Mikkelsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127101955	Thank you. I now have the opportunity to endorse the general remarks made by the Prime Minister on the operation of the Crown Prince, which I fully agree with. But to Mr. Søren Søndergaard, this is about the Enhedslisten or Mr. Søndergaard. Søren Søndergaard about just as being signaled that the Crown Prince must be kept on a short leash; that is what is the signal. Is Mr. Søren Søndergaard is fully aware that the Crown Prince is therefore IOC's representative in Denmark and not Denmark's representative in the IOC? As a member of a board of directors, an association, an organisation is bound by the statutes of that organisation, and that must be respected. Is Mr. Søren Søndergaard is aware of it and makes it a difference as to what kind of rules it is, sir. Søren Søndergaard would like when you remember the difference in location?
ParlaMint-DK_20170127102047	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127102049	I am fully aware of this, and that was the basis for the whole discussion at that time, because it is precisely the problem of having on the one hand a crown prince, a future king, a head of state who, by its very nature, must be politically neutral and, on the other hand, a member of an organization and of the organization under an oath given. That was exactly the dilemma we were discussing, and that was exactly the dilemma that former Prime Minister Anders Fogh Rasmussen solved with his clear statements to the Folketing. Now I understand that sir... Anders Fogh Rasmussen's parliamentary basis from then runs from Mr. Anders Fogh Rasmussen's statements - for the only thing we propose in this way - are to return to the content that was there, namely that there cannot be a situation on a major political issue where there are two different lines for the Crown Prince and the Government respectively. That's not my expression, sir. Anders Fogh Rasmussen's expression.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127102154	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127102156	I think we should get a little closer to this problem, because that is the picture, sir. Søren Søndergaard is trying to draw is wrong. The Crown Prince's role in the IOC, in the present case, came about by making a decision in an executive committee as far as I am informed to follow a democratic thinking about letting the Special Associations decide whether to participate or not. So, as far as I can see at all, as far as the role of the Crown Prince was concerned, there was no position on saying yes or no. It was agreed that the special federations responsible for individual activities should decide whether or not to participate. Don't make it a difference to Mr. Søren Søndergaard in search of the short leash?
ParlaMint-DK_20170127102241	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127102242	No, it doesn't make any difference, because the position of the government was that Russia as a country should be excluded. It was the government's position. There are things I really don't care about: the International Olympic Committee can decide what it wants and the Crown Prince can think what he wants. What interests me is what is the position of the government? And the position of the government was that Russia as a country should be excluded because there had been overwhelming evidence that Russia had participated in organised doping cheating. That is what I am starting from, and it can be compared with the fact that Mr. Anders Fogh Rasmussen said that there would be no situation where there was a difference between what the government says and what the Crown Prince says; but we just have to see that there was. I would also like to say that it is of course very interesting: what did the government actually say to the Crown Prince? I don't know. I know that a number of e-mails were sent, unfortunately we cannot be told about what, but it may be that we can lure the Prime Minister to reveal it a little later.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127102337	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments at the moment. The next speaker is the rapporteur from the Socialist Group, Mr President. Mogens Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127102350	First of all, let me state that the Social Democratic Party strongly condemns doping. Doping is devastating both for the individual athletes and for the sports in which it is practiced, and therefore it is important that both sport and national governments and the international community use the tools needed to combat doping and its devastating consequences. That is why Social Democracy also strongly supports the clear course taken by Denmark's Sports Federation and Anti Doping Denmark together with the International Anti-Doping Agency, WADA, in the case of the state-organised doping programme, which has now been demonstrated in Russia several times. When a country deliberately, consistently and organizedly uses doping to promote the performance of its athlete, the great hammer must fall. Russia and its athletes should have been excluded from the Rio de Janeiro Olympic Games with demands to clean up their sporting organization and remove doping. This is the clear position taken by the Danish Sports Federation, and the Social Democratic Party fully agrees. The same goes for the government and also the then Minister for Culture. Unfortunately, this was not the decision reached by the IOC, and it has been since the Olympics that there has even been further evidence of organised use of doping in Russia. The question here is about the participation and voting of the Crown Prince in the International Olympic Committee in relation to the doping case in Russia. The Crown Prince has been elected to the IOC in his personal capacity and not least because of the great and excellent work the Crown Prince does for Danish sports, both at home and abroad. The basis for the membership of the Crown Prince and everyone else, as has just been discussed in the Committee, is that they must not represent national interests, but must represent sport as a whole across national borders. We cannot therefore demand that an IOC member represent in particular the interests of his nation or of his country. There is also reason to note, as I have noted the Prime Minister said, that the decision not to exclude Russia from the Olympics as a nation was taken by the IOC Executive Committee, and the Crown Prince is not a member of the Executive Committee. In connection with the Crown Prince's appointment to the IOC, as has also been said, a special coordination group was set up to ensure a firm exchange of information between him and the government on the government's position on political issues relating to the IOC. Against this background, of course, it is also the clear expectation of the Social Democrats that the government should continuously provide the Crown Prince with the necessary information and advice on the government's position in matters relating to the International Olympic Committee. The IOC made a wrong decision about Russia. This is deeply regrettable, but in the future it must now be about continuing the fight and ensuring that we push wherever we can and use all the tools we have to put an end to doping and, above all, organised doping. On behalf of the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party, the Left, the Liberal Alliance, the Radical Left and the Conservative People's Party, I have to make the following points: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament takes note of the Prime Minister's statement on the activities of the royal house within the framework of the Danish government, which is constitutionally monarchic (inlimited-monarchic). The Danish Parliament also notes that there is an ongoing dialogue between the government and the Royal House on themes related to the IOC and their possible political aspects. • • • • • • • • • • • •
ParlaMint-DK_20170127102800	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are also a few brief comments here. And I repeat once again that the proposal for adoption will not be put to the vote until Tuesday, but it is, of course, part of the debate now. The first to a brief remark is Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127102817	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Like the Prime Minister, he makes a distinction and says that the Crown Prince is elected in his personal capacity and therefore he cannot be imposed on anything. But would the rapporteur not agree that, in relation to the royal house and the crown prince, that distinction is completely irrelevant? And that is precisely because that separation cannot be made. The Crown Prince is the future Danish king, the future Danish head of state. He is part of the royal house, and the burden that the royal house must bear is that they cannot make the distinction. That is why they cannot speak politically, as everyone else can. They have some limitations on what they can do. It is therefore simply not acceptable to make the distinction between his personal capacity and his capacity as a crown prince. And that's also why Anders Fogh Rasmussen was extremely worried about what happened here. And I simply do not understand the arguments put forward by the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127102938	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127102940	I do not think anyone can be in any doubt that the reason why the Crown Prince has gained membership of the International Olympic Committee is, of course, the huge commitment and the enormous work and insight that the Crown Prince has built up in relation to sport. And that is why it has been found that the Crown Prince will be a worthy representative of Denmark and of the Danish athletes in defending the ideas and ideals of the international Olympic movement and working for it in the International Olympic Committee. There can be no doubt about that. Then it is clear that in relation to the Crown Prince also being Crown Prince and future King, it is necessary that there is a dialogue between the government and the Crown Prince about the aspects of IOC's work that can also take on a political character. And, as I said, I also expect that dialogue to be there and that the government will ensure that there is continuous information of the Crown Prince.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127103049	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127103051	Okay, then I understand that it is recognised that the separation of roles cannot be carried out here, that is, that he also plays the role of Crown Prince when he is in the IOC. I can understand that when you recognise that there has to be this dialogue. But should we not admit that dialogue has not worked here and that it is a problem that the Crown Prince votes completely, quite differently from what is the government's official policy in relation to Russia's exclusion?
ParlaMint-DK_20170127103120	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127103122	Well, I can't stand here explaining what dialogue there has been. I note that there must certainly be a dialogue. A coordination group has been set up, and the Prime Minister has said here that this dialogue does not take place solely at meetings of these coordination groups, but also, of course, at regular contacts which may exist between, for example, the two sides of industry. the Minister of Culture and the Crown Prince when they meet for various occasions, including the Olympics, where they were both present. All I can say is that, of course, I expect the government to ensure that the Crown Prince is kept informed and, of course, especially in those cases of the IOC which have a political character.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127103203	Sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127103207	Thank you. Now Mr. Mogens Jensen to this coordination group. Anyway, I'd like to say to Mr. Mogens Jensen, this coordination group hasn't met in three years. It hasn't met in three years! I understand that it is not possible to explain what is happening under the current government, but Mr. After all, Mogens Jensen was not a nobody under the previous government. So why was there no meeting of the coordination group during the last 11⁄2 years of the previous government? Is it because people disagreed with the setting up of the group? That brings me to the second question. When Anders Fogh Rasmussen says so clearly that there must be no conflict between what the government stands for and what the Crown Prince says, has the Social Democracy in fact always disagreed with the former Prime Minister? Did you think it was nonsense, because the Crown Prince was just there in personal capacity, and it had something to do with it, so he could do pretty much what he wanted? Or is this really accurate? And if that is very accurate, isn't that exactly what is somehow awkward in the matter we have seen this summer?
ParlaMint-DK_20170127103318	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127103320	I am pleased that Enhedslisten's rapporteur recognises that I was not a nobody under the former government. It's not nice for anyone, I think, to be a nobody. So I'm super happy about that. But I must also say that I did not sit in a capacity which allows me to answer what was going on or did not take place in relation to committee meetings and information of the Crown Prince on important matters relating to the IOC. But I can say that the very fact that the Crown Prince is Crown Prince makes it important, of course, that the dialogue is there and that the Crown Prince is constantly informed. I have also indicated this in my rapporteur's speech, and I expect the government to do the same. But I cannot answer to what extent and how this has happened.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127103413	Sir. Søren Søndergaard for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127103415	I am glad that I was delighted with the rapporteur on such a gray day. No, the sun is actually shining. But I simply do not understand how the rapporteur can continue to refer to a coordination group which has not had a meeting for three years. Well, it seems really weird to say: the contact is going on, among other things. There, but not alone there. No, not alone, it's certainly when they haven't had a meeting in three years. So could the rapporteur and I at least not meet where we agreed that it was perhaps a good idea, either that the coordination group was officially shut down and that the Fogh era was ended on this point too, or that that group actually started to meet?
ParlaMint-DK_20170127103501	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127103504	I have it in this way that the important thing for me and for the Social Democrats is that there is a dialogue and that the government is fulfilling the responsibility that the Crown Prince is being informed of these conditions on an ongoing basis. Whether it takes place in a committee room or it takes place when, for example, the Minister for Culture in different contexts. Meet the Crown Prince, as I saw them do during the Olympics, I don't think there's much reason to go into detail about that. The most important thing is that this information is given, and I expect it to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127103544	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127103547	Thank you. If you accept all the terms used by the rapporteur on this issue, I would like to say that I am curious to find out more about this ongoing dialogue and what is needed for it. I take note of the answer to the question to Mr. Søren Søndergaard. There hasn't been a meeting in this coordination group since January 2014. This means that this ongoing dialogue must take place in other ways. Does the rapporteur think that it is safe for the Crown Prince, who is an important person in Denmark and future Head of State, that it will be fluid and an ongoing dialogue that we do not really know about? Does the rapporteur not believe that there will be a need for it to be more structured so that our future Head of State can sit back and be comfortable knowing that you will not step aside?
ParlaMint-DK_20170127103641	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127103643	Now I know the alternative rapporteur as a person who does not normally attach much importance to formalities and rigid organisation. I think, of course, that when you have set up a group to meet, you have to assess if it does not meet, if you have to organise things in a different way, if other ways work better, or if it has proved to be practical in this way. I shall not be able to decide how that information is given. But I expect there to be this ongoing dialogue between the government and the Crown Prince. Of course, I expect the Prime Minister and the Minister of Culture to ensure that. However, whether this is going on at a committee meeting in a room is not so crucial for us.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127103741	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127103744	Now I started by saying that I took the rapporteur's speech as the premise for my questions. But does the rapporteur really think that is good enough? In other words, the reason why I am critical of this matter and that I think there is something that has not worked well enough and that needs to be done better is that the premise is that we have a crown prince, a future head of state, who sits on a post which is also sport policy and very much international sport policy, and then there must be an agreement on the position of the government. And there the rapporteur does not think there is a need for greater security in that dialogue, that is to say it is enough with this slightly fluid form which it has apparently worked on for three years.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127103828	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127103830	As I said, I feel that if a committee or a group has been set up, there is no reason to have set them up if they are not used in practice or that there are other ways in which information can be better provided. So of course one must have that consideration, I think. However, as I have said, it is crucial for me that there is this ongoing dialogue, and one has to ask the Prime Minister if that is guaranteed when the Prime Minister is given the opportunity to respond. We have a clear expectation that this will happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127103907	There is one more for a brief remark. Sir. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127103912	Thank you. It's kind of derived from these answers that I just have a question. Now that the rapporteur agrees that it is important that there should be some kind of coordination between the government and the announcements by a future Head of State in the IOC, and when it is so that this dialogue obviously does not work in this committee, which has not met since 2014, does the rapporteur agree that there is at least a need to strengthen that dialogue so that we do not find ourselves in a similar situation? It is not necessarily in the committee that does not meet, but since it is going on in other ways, does the rapporteur think that there is a need for that dialogue to be strengthened?
ParlaMint-DK_20170127103950	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127103952	There is a need for this dialogue, and so far we have heard, including from the Prime Minister, that there is an ongoing dialogue. Of course, I take that too well, but I agree that it is up to the current government to ensure that the Crown Prince is informed of the government's deliberations on sports policy issues that may come up or be raised and discussed in the IOC.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127104028	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127104030	But now that we agree that this ongoing dialogue is needed and it has obviously not been present in this case, and there is a council which does not seem to be meeting, what reflection does the rapporteur have on how to prevent such a situation from occurring again? In other words, how can we strengthen this dialogue, which is clearly agreed to be strengthened or which has not been enough in this case?
ParlaMint-DK_20170127104055	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127104058	I understand the rapporteur's question, but I am based on what the Prime Minister has said, i.e. that there is, but I cannot answer the extent to which it is there and how it has been. You have to ask the Prime Minister or the Minister for Culture about that. But I guess it's there. Whether this should lead to the idea that the way in which dialogue is conducted on these matters these days can be handled without it happening, by a committee or a coordination group meeting, we can discuss it, but it must be up to the government to organise its work so that this dialogue takes place on an ongoing basis, because we fully agree that it should.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127104145	There are no more brief comments to this rapporteur, so thank the rapporteur. The next speaker is the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, Mr. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127104158	Thank you very much. It is normal, of course, that the questioners should be thanked in this Parliament for raising an important issue, but, exceptionally, I would not like to use such a polite introduction to the Enhedslisten when it comes to F 8, and the reason why I am so rude is that I think that this very debate, unlike almost all other debates, should not have been raised as an open debate in the Parliament, but rather as an open debate with the government in a closed consultation in the Committee on Culture, at least if one had actually wanted a real knowledge of what happened. Why? Do we not have a system in which everything should be as open as possible and why can we not discuss a vote in the International Olympic Committee, the IOC? I think there are four very important reasons for this. Firstly, an essential party to the case, namely the Crown Prince and thus the Royal House, has no opportunity to reply to what is said in the Chamber today, let alone present its case. Secondly, the Crown Prince is not a member, as we have heard, of the IOC Executive Committee, which actually decided that not all Russian athletes should be excluded from the Olympics, but simply nodded to the decision. Thirdly, as the Prime Minister's reply to the questionsers showed, the correspondence and dialogue of one kind or another that may possibly have been exchanged between the government and the Crown Prince and his people in Rio will not be presented for essential reasons. Fourthly, it is quite unusual for the government to interfere in the decisions of the IOC. In other words, we cannot learn more about what actually happened on Sunday, July 24, 2016 and in the days around. However, I would like to make a few comments which are of a more general nature. I was among those who expressed public concern at the time when the Crown Prince was to be elected in the IOC, finding that situations could arise which, by virtue of his position as successor to the throne, could create difficulties. I must say, however, that the zealous and skillful way in which the successor to the throne has carried out his duties over the years has meant that I am no longer concerned. The Crown Prince has understood his position and fully understood how this position has been able and can be combined with the record in the IOC. Secondly, and it is quite unscientificly claimed that if the Crown Prince had received a clear and clear indication from the Danish Government that he would not have to praise the decision made by the IOC's Executive Committee, he would not have done so. It is an impossibility for the Crown Prince to act in direct contradiction with the government. That would never have happened, and it's not gonna happen. Furthermore, if the Crown Prince as the only one in the IOC had criticised the IOC's Executive Committee, it would have had enormous and incalculable political and diplomatic consequences for Denmark. On the other hand, I do not wish to congratulate the former Minister for Culture, Bertel Haarder, for the criticism which he made in the days then in a very indirect way against the Crown Prince. Government ministers should, more than anyone else, tread extremely cautiously with criticism in relation to members of the royal house. I usually follow the media well, but I have to say that until after the IOC resolution of 24 July I had not heard any statements in public from the then Minister of Culture about what was the government's attitude to boycott or not boycott or partial boycott of Russia. I have also tried to find those statements in public space, but I have not been able to find them. Finally, I should like to say that the Danish People's Party supports the proposal for adoption made by a broad majority in the Danish Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127104631	One of them made a brief comment now. Sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127104634	Yeah, thanks for the non-rose. I just wanted to say that Mr. Søren Espersen does not follow closely, because then he would know that someone actually opposed the resolution of the International Olympic Committee, namely a representative of the active athletes in England, possibly Britain. I think it is the case in all associations, including the Danish People's Party, that if the Executive Committee has made a decision and then shows up at a national meeting and asks if anyone has something against it, and there is only one saying out, then you see it as something that the national meeting has made a decision on or at least approved. So this is a formal decision. But it doesn't really matter, because what we are discussing here is forward-looking. That is what we have always stressed. We have emphasized what is forward-looking, and I am therefore surprised that Mr. Søren Espersen cannot say a little more about the future, because I do share Mr. Søren Espersen's view that the Crown Prince would not oppose a clear decision by the government, I fully share the view that there is a need for the government to be clearer both publicly and internally in order to mark its views.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127104754	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127104756	I think the key point is that we do not really know what happened in those days around 24 July. We have no idea what has been sent, and I understand that too. It is possible that there has been that there has certainly been an email correspondence between the government and the Crown Prince and his people out there, but that there has been a vertical order there, I simply do not believe would happen. And then you are asked to do something further, but there has been nothing. There has been nothing that has given rise to a huge new operation now to run this game. Well, that's kind of like when at home in my parish is called for a meeting in the waterworks. No one comes because we get clean and clear water every day. Then why would we show up? It is not necessarily a sign that things are going badly, that there have been no meetings. Maybe it's because it's going really well.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127104856	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127104858	Yes, except that we were in a situation where the government and the Crown Prince, who is the future king God forbid it, but it could theoretically have been from tomorrow that two different lines were put forward. This suggests that if it is not about the double game I mentioned as a theoretical possibility in my introduction, namely that the government has said one thing to the public and something else to the Crown Prince that it is clear that the contact has not been in order. That's what
ParlaMint-DK_20170127104937	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127104937-2	But then I have to say that it has also passed my nose. I read a lot in the media that I follow in the media, but it has come to my mind that up to 24 July the government had made a clear decision that Russian athletes should be excluded here. I haven't seen that anywhere. Therefore, it is central to what has happened in the mail correspondence that has been. I would also like to say that what if the Crown Prince had said from the beginning was also what I referred to in my rapporteur's speech. It would have been a really problematic position, it would have brought Denmark in precisely because the government would then go in and act politically on an IOC decision, so do what we always warn against: mixing sport and politics.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127105027	The next short remark is Mr. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127105031	Sir. Søren Espersen said that in his time he shared the scepticism that many of us had when the Crown Prince became a member of the IOC. But later developments have told him that it was actually very reasonable that there have been no disasters. But this is exactly what we warned against. So, this vote in the IOC is precisely the expression of the Crown Prince taking a political position, because Russian doping is a very important part of Russian politics. That's why this is foreign policy at a whole, quite different level than you're used to in the world of sport. The Olympic Games have always been political, but in these years, and especially on the part of Russia, it will be further political. That's why I can't believe that Mr. Søren Espersen cannot see that this is precisely the expression of the very problem of the Crown Prince becoming a member of the IOC, and that therefore there is a need for a strengthened dialogue, one can call it, but perhaps more precisely a strengthened control of how this is handled.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127105153	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127105154	I do not agree with that at all. What I would argue, on the other hand, is that if the Crown Prince had gone out and had avoided the IOC Executive Committee because of a political instruction from Denmark, it would have had political consequences. The decision of the IOC would then have been taken up in a state-law discussion. We don't usually do that. We are delighted to leave such doping decisions both to the various specialist associations and also to the IOC. There is no tradition that Danish politicians should decide what the IOC decides. This is a whole new situation. It is essential to say that if he had resigned, there would have been trouble. Now he did what he could. What happened those days? We have no idea what instructions he has been given and whether he has been given an instruction or just a strange message at all. We don't know anything about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127105251	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127105253	Well, that's exactly the problem in this. Had it been Niels Nygaard, it would have been all sorts of others in the sports world who had been on the board of the IOC, that argument would have been valid. But it's the Crown Prince. It is because the politicisation comes in that we here in the Folketing also have to deal with it, not least for the sake of the royal house itself, precisely because the Crown Prince gets involved in political discussions because he is a member of the IOC. You can't separate the Crown Prince's different roles, as I've said before. That is why, in my opinion, this structure is so hopeless, and I do not understand that Mr. Søren Espersen, like, has deviated from his former scepticism. I think that this is precisely the expression of the scepticism he had in his time and was well-founded and still well-founded.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127105348	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127105350	I fully agree with Holger K. Nielsen that the successor to the throne is a successor to the throne, whether he acts in the IOC or he acts in Denmark. There is no doubt about that matter. It is a special position that he has, and that is why we have also said that there must of course be some ping pong. Now that the Crown Prince has been in that situation for 10-12 years or something, this comes where there's a rubble, and then you say it's all been miserable, and it's proof that now everything is going wrong. It is not much to hang your hat on in a situation where the Crown Prince has solved his tasks to everyone's satisfaction. Then, as I said, there's something that no one knows what is, and then suddenly everything has to be thrown back into the air. I do not agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127105435	There are still two brief comments to make, and the next one is Mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127105441	Thank you. Now the rapporteur himself says that the Crown Prince is in a very special situation. So the fact that he is a crown prince and a successor to the throne means that he plays a very special role. Then the rapporteur also says that if the Crown Prince had chosen to take a different position in the IOC from what he chose, it would have created a great resurrection and would be really problematic. I think these are the words used by the rapporteur. Does the rapporteur not see that a decision should then be taken as to whether there are totally waterproof bulkheads between the government's position and the Crown Prince's position and the Crown Prince acting solely on his own behalf? But at the same time it is said that there has to be a dialogue with the Crown Prince about this. In other words, if the Crown Prince can make a decision that creates a great resurrection and is really problematic, will there not be some certainty and some security in the government advising him so that he is not put in that situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20170127105540	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127105541	No, because the IOC and the IOC executive committee are holding these things in a closed forum. There they're discussing what they're doing about this situation, just as they've guaranteed to have done in a lot of other situations in the 10-12 years the Crown Prince has been there. There you discuss, and then you agree, or you reach some Salomonic decision. It is after that that that it is problematic to go out and distance ourselves from it. I think that would be a difficult situation, not only for the Crown Prince, but also if it had been some of our other former members of the IOC. It must be left to them in the internal discussions, and it is clear that the Crown Prince can support what is being adopted, as do the rest of us in many other forums.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127105630	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127105632	But that is why I do not fully understand why the rapporteur has become less concerned about this dual role. Because there is a difference in whether you sit as an athlete and help make a decision in the IOC, or whether you are exactly in the role of the Crown Prince, namely head of state. It is, of course, against this background that doubts can be raised as to whether there are two lines of Danish foreign policy: one led by a future head of state and one led by the government. That is why the rapporteur also acknowledges that there will have to be some kind of coordination between the government and the Crown Prince, both for the sake of the Crown Prince, but also for the sake of the government and the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127105709	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127105710	But I don't want the government to pursue doping politics. You have to leave that to the IOC. As to what we are doing here internally in relation to our own relations here in Denmark, it is clear that there are political interests involved in these matters. But the government shouldn't sit around and tell the IOC how to settle their differences of controversy that they've had piles of. No, I'm no longer worried, because in the 10-12 years that have passed, everything has gone well. There has been no point in putting a finger on the Crown Prince's commitment to the IOC. That is why I am no longer worried, but I was before, for the very same reason that Holger K. Nielsen mentions, namely that the Crown Prince is a successor to the throne and therefore, in my view, has the same status as if it had been Denmark's monarch. You have to hold on to that. We cannot separate the two things, and it was therefore essential that a group be set up that could keep up with what happened.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127105814	The next brief remark is Mrs Zenia Stampe, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127105819	It is precisely a question of the division of roles. Understand me correctly, this is neither a criticism of the government nor the Crown Prince, but in this way it is just an attempt to clarify what kind of mandate or role the Crown Prince is equipped with in the IOC. Perhaps today is really about the fact that it is difficult to clarify the role of the Crown Prince. I can immediately see that there are three roles, and that is how I see the three roles that I would like to have Mr. Søren Espersen to relate to. Well, there's the part of it. According to the IOC's rules, one is bound only by oneself. It is almost as in the Constitution; one cannot be bound up with organizations or states. That's the one part. The second role is as the government's mouthpiece. When you have a coordination group and have as your goal that the Crown Prince should not go against government policy, it is probably to some extent because you also see the Crown Prince as a mouthpiece or a representative of Denmark. The last role, which also complicates it further, has to do with the fact that the royal house must be neutral, and that is why it is a role where you cannot even be the government's mouthpiece, but just have to be politically neutral. Could I ask the rapporteur to give some thought to the role or roles of the Crown Prince and how the link between those roles is to be carried out by the Crown Prince of the IOC?
ParlaMint-DK_20170127105941	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127105942	There are several questions in one. The Crown Prince has not been sent to the IOC to conduct the policy of the Danish government. He's not. He does not come with a mandate from the Folketing, just as when we send ministers to Brussels, it does not work that way. His role, as I see it, is that in the discussion within the IOC, both within the IOC's Executive Committee, but also throughout the IOC, the Crown Prince, when such decisions are made, should somehow align himself with it. It is then a decision that has been made on the basis of it. This corresponds to our parliamentary group sitting and having a meeting; there may be differences of opinion on various things, but when we are done with the meeting we have set a course for what we want. So it has to be the same when you sit in such a body as the IOC, that is to say you come, and then you follow broadly what the IOC has agreed. Otherwise, it can create serious political consequences, and then it is not certain that such a situation as we now have will be able to continue.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127110052	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127110058	In fact, I thought Mr. Søren Espersen to add a fourth role, namely the role of IOC's representative, and I know that the Crown Prince is in Denmark, but there was also in it, as Mr. Søren Espersen said that the Crown Prince does not exert influence, but merely takes the influence home, that he represents the IOC. It was then a fourth role. I stand here with a statement from the Crown Prince, which I would like to hear from Mr. Søren Espersen made a commitment. It is an article from 2010, which is about exactly what to do when the IOC becomes political. In this connection, the Crown Prince said: "If this should happen, I have the opportunity to leave the room physically and, incidentally, stick to the line of the government of my own country in a given matter. In that quotation, as I read, the Crown Prince actually wants to be politically neutral, or he wants to follow the government. This was a line supported by Mrs Karin Nødgaard at the time. Is this a line that the Danish People's Party will support today, so that when things get a little too political, you either follow the government or you leave the room because you do not want to be political?
ParlaMint-DK_20170127110205	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127110210	Yes, absolutely. This is an exceptional situation because, as I have said, it is not normal for governments to interfere in the IOC's doping policy and in what they do in that way, and in that situation he has followed what was a majority in favour and what the position was. After all, he is exerting influence in the discussion which, I suppose, is taking place in the IOC, where he will certainly speak. He's exerting influence in that way. In relation to what Mrs Karin Nødgaard has said, I fully agree that there may be situations that can be so tense politically and create a completely different discussion from what is going on in the IOC that it may be a good idea for the Crown Prince to take a little break and go out and have a cup of coffee.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127110254	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative, to a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127110301	Thank you. I also have two questions which I simply need answers to in order to understand this on top of both the rapporteur's speech and the questions that have been raised. So, isn't the Crown Prince always a representative of Denmark as future Head of State? That is the first question, and there I think he will always represent Denmark in the contexts in which he is part of it. And the second question concerns the whole question of doping and anti-doping, which has, of course, been a very major political issue in Denmark: is it not a political issue?
ParlaMint-DK_20170127110331	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127110335	To the end, of course it is. We put a doping policy here in the Danish Parliament... it's something that often engages... where we make sure we get rid of the devilishness that doping is. To the question whether the Crown Prince is a representative of Denmark, I can answer: Of course he is. He's a representative because he's a successor to the throne. There he has a special role, but he doesn't go in, and that's what I'm saying there's the unusual thing about this situation, and informs the Danish government about something that the IOC has to decide. Whether there should be a boycott of Russia, whether there should be a boycott or whether there should be a partial boycott, I would have said a little brazenly: what does the Danish Government care about? What is it to the Danish Government and the Danish Parliament what the IOC decides in relation to one of its Member States whether it should be excluded from an event or not? I know there was a lot of political pressure when it was decided to boycott the games in Russia I think it was in 1980. There was a lot of political interest in it. At that time, I was also fervently opposed to governments sitting and dictating that sort of thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127110440	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127110443	What I simply do not understand is how to say something political, which is not political, and that one always speaks as a representative of Denmark and as the future head of state, that is, a successor to the throne, but that one simply represents the IOC. It is simply the dividing line that can be set, which I find it difficult to say exactly where it is, because I cannot imagine anything more political in sport today than doping. This is one of the issues on which we spend the most time in sport policy. That is why I believe that the Crown Prince, if you do not want him to vote against, will do as the previous questioner has said, in other words, just step out of the room and say that it is too political for him to be able to participate in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127110525	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127110527	In fact, in my last reply, I said that doping is a terrible thing and that it is clearly a political decision how we combat doping within Denmark's borders. It's okay. It's okay. But it is not our table, whether the IOC, the International Olympic Committee, should decide which countries should be boycotted, not boycotted or partially boycotted. That is where things are going wrong; there is where the policy begins to take over. And that is what we must resist.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127110601	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, so we will continue to speak. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127110611	Thank you. Let me start by saying that I very much agree with the views of the Socialist rapporteur on doping and its systematic use by Russia. In Denmark we have a constitutional monarchy, we have a royal house, we are a kingdom. There are different things to be said about that, and there can be differences of opinion on this, and I also have a clear view that the questioner for today's debate and I myself may not necessarily look counter-productive, but so little different in the royal house and there is nothing wrong with that. Left and I are very pleased with the Danish royal house in general and for the house's efforts for Denmark in particular. When I am abroad and the speech falls on the Danish royal house, I must confess that I am so sad that I will simply be proud to be Danish. We have a royal house that masters the difficult balance between being clear and significant representatives of Denmark abroad and at the same time being quite neutral in political affairs here at home. This applies, of course, to Her Majesty the Queen, but this also applies to the Crown Prince Couple, who are good, strong and significant representatives of Denmark in all respects. The Crown Prince is a former elite soldier in both the Frogman Corps and the Sirius Patrol. He is a top-tuned and highly trained athlete, who knows both what is required to play elite sports and who is a great role model for many people, young and old. When you are the crown prince of Denmark also follow what the Prime Minister said about this balance sheet, there are some relatively narrow limits to what you can engage in. One of the things the Crown Prince has thrown himself over with both understanding and enthusiasm in my optics is Danish sport. This is true whether it is swimming, handball or something else, and it is true whether it is Danish topatlets who are on a medal hunt or whether it is children and young people who are trying to work with the world of sport. At least I sense a sincere interest and empathy in the Crown Prince, who is much out of the ordinary and who is contagious. And I see that as a gift, that is, the very thing about it being contagious. It is a gift that we should be happy about, and I cannot think of any other Dane who will be able to deliver what the Crown Prince does. It's because of both his position and his commitment. And I think it is something that matters to Denmark, both nationally and internationally; and it means even more to athletes, whether big or small. That commitment is also reflected by the Crown Prince's membership of the International Olympic Committee, the IOC. Here the Crown Prince delivers an important piece of work, and in my optics he does it as a worthy and handsome representative of both the Olympic spirit and for sport. So in the Left we agree with the government's view that the Crown Prince has managed his membership of the IOC quite satisfactorily and that the Crown Prince's membership has not prevented the government from pursuing its sports policy. So I would like to refer to the Prime Minister's statement and say that the Left is not so surprisingly supportive of the proposal for adoption made by the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr. Mogens Jensen, read it a few minutes ago. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127110954	There are, for the time being, two inscribed for short remarks. The first is sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127111002	I would like to thank the rapporteur and I understand that the rapporteur wants to use so much of his speech to talk about the Crown Prince. I guess that's what the speaker's gotta do. Our interest is a little different. In fact, our interest is in the government, and I am actually surprised that Mr. Mr Ellemann-Jensen did not take up two statements that have been made here in the course of the debate. Firstly, we heard the Liberal Alliance suggest that the one-party government of the Left did not have a clear position on excluding Russia from the Olympic Games because of doping. And Mr. Søren Espersen made it even more clear in his view of that point. That's why I'd like to ask Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen: was the government not in favour of and was the Left not in favour of the exclusion of Russia from the Rio Olympic Games because of the systematic abuse of doping, or is it just a misconception that has subsequently spread?
ParlaMint-DK_20170127111117	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127111119	It's funny that there's a question coming from Mr. Knox. Søren Søndergaard, who actually comes from something, sir. Søren Søndergaard started his speech by saying that it was certainly not what we were going to talk about today that it had Mr. Søren Søndergaard no interest in. Mr. Søren Søndergaard then got. I mean, I believe that both the attitude of the government and the Left towards doping is relatively clear, and if it is not clear enough, I would like to say that we are against doping, particularly systematic doping. And what we can see now, when the second half of the McLaren report has arrived, is that it is even worse than we knew at the time of the summer from which this whole debate arises. Everything is clearer in the inexorably clear light of hindsight, and with what we know today, I have no doubt that Russia should have been excluded from the Olympic Games.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127111209	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127111212	The rapporteur is unable to answer the question. So the starting point is that there are two rapporteurs in this Chamber, Mr President. Søren Espersen and Mr. Leif Mikkelsen, has been questioned whether the government and the Left were in fact in favour of boycotting Russia's participation in the Olympic Games before the famous meeting of the International Olympic Committee. There I would just ask the rapporteur to clarify what the position of the Left was at that time. Were we in favour of a boycott of Russia or were we not in favour of a boycott of Russia?
ParlaMint-DK_20170127111250	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127111251	Sir. Søren Søndergaard must simply apologize, but this is actually not based on a desire to avoid it. We in the Left are in favour of Russia being excluded from the Olympic Games. When, on what date we have made that decision, I simply cannot remember at this time. I would ask for a hint of understanding for this at the moment that Mr. Søren Søndergaard made a big point that this is not what we should be talking about today. I will be happy to look into and return with that, but I do not have my calendar in my head, nor does Mr. Søren Søndergaard has.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127111330	Then it's mr. Holger K. Nielsen, SF, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127111333	Yes, but I guess it's true that the Minister for Culture had that opinion at the time and actively worked for Russia to be excluded, and he's also the Leftman, isn't he? He's liberal, okay. But at least he's still a member of the Left, and he was then too. So it has to be assumed that both the Left and the Government were actively involved and that they were working for Russia to be excluded. And that's why we have this problem with the Crown Prince really going to act politically with his vote. This has been a difficult situation for him, and we are quite sure about that, but he will act politically and politically in a contradiction to what the Minister of Culture currently worked for.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127111431	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127111434	I can confirm both that the former Minister for Culture, Mr. Bertel Haarder, who is very much a Leftman, and we in the Left are opposed to doping and believe that Russia should be excluded from the Olympic Games. The premise I do not, on the other hand, buy from Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, is the one dealing with the supposed vote of the Crown Prince. So, it is the Executive Committee of the International Olympic Committee, of which the Crown Prince is not a member, that has made that decision. Now this false contrast simply has to stop. I'm not buying that premise.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127111509	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127111513	It's not gonna last. So, it was nodded and there was a single representative from England who actually opposed Russia not being excluded. So it is something formalism that is being driven in and that has nothing to do with reality. That is also what the whole debate has been about, namely that the Crown Prince has actually approved the decision in the IOC that Russia should not be excluded and this, contrary to the Left Minister for Culture, is a very, very political act.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127111557	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127111600	Well, I simply have to repeat that I am not buying the premise that because the IOC Executive Committee makes a decision that we in Denmark disagree with, there is a contradiction between the Crown Prince's statements and the government's policy, and the Crown Prince should have prevented the government from pursuing its sports policy. I simply do not accept that paragraph. I think it is a false premise to set up. I do not believe that the Crown Prince has in any way prevented the government from pursuing its sports policy. Then you have to remember, as Mr. Leif Mikkelsen also mentioned earlier that it is not the case that we send the ambassador to the IOC. It is sport that is represented in the IOC with its members. It is not a Danish ambassador who sits in the IOC. So that's not how it works.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127111657	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments right now. Someone just came in. I didn't have time to see that. I'm sorry. That's the way it is when you look up and the technique is out of sight. It is Mrs Zenia Stampe, Radical Left, on a brief note. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127111716	I look forward to having a closed consultation on this one day, because it is a very, very strange shadow talk ■ quite frankly. Let me tell you what it is. There are so many others who may not dare. I suppose the government has said that this isn't where you should take this fight... you may not tell the Crown Prince, but then you might say something else... we do that somewhere else, because it's also bringing you or bringing the Crown Prince, His Highness, or whatever you say, in a penible situation. We'll take that fight somewhere else. We must then have that talk on a closed consultation. But what I cannot understand, and what I get tired of in this debate, is the degree of the answer bypassing the fact that Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen cannot even admit that there is, of course, a contradiction in the fact that we have a government that says that we must work to boycott Russia, and then there is a representative on whom a government with a Left Prime Minister has said: this representative must never conflict with Denmark. That you don't want to admit it! It's a fact, and I don't understand, even though it's high police, and I don't know what, when it's the Crown Prince, we can't be more honest about this. I don't even mind the Crown Prince doing what he did. I see good reasons for this, and I cannot understand why we cannot have an honest talk about it instead of wrapping it into all kinds of constitutional monarchy, and we cannot talk about that etc. Let's be honest and get clean lines.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127111838	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127111840	I agree that we should be able to talk about these things. We just disagree. It's not about going around, it's about me not thinking there's a problem. I simply do not think there is a problem. What I see this debate as expressing is that on the Enhedslisten side one simply wants to discredit the royal house in general and the crown prince in particular, and I will not contribute to that because there we just have different views about the importance of the royal house for Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127111913	Mrs Zenia Stampe, on a second brief point.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127111914	Yes, but if the rapporteur listened to my speech, he could hear that it was certainly not an attack on the Crown Prince. I do not even criticize the Crown Prince's act and vote. What bothers me is that we are trying to close the debate by denying something that is a fact. It sounds quite trumpist to say that there is no contradiction between a government working for a boycott and a crown prince supporting the decision of the IOC's business committee not to boycott Russia. That is a contradiction, and we must be able to talk about it. Perhaps we can have a talk about it in a closed consultation, because I think there are good reasons why the government may have advised the Crown Prince as it has done. So let's have that talk there instead of wrapping it into all sorts of formalistic law.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127111959	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127112002	Since we are talking about trumpism and fake news and things like that, the premise is that I simply have to correct Mrs Zenia Stampe, and I am sorry if it sounds like I am talking about it. This is really just about the IOC having an executive committee. The Crown Prince isn't there. So the way Mrs. Zenia Stampe paints it is wrong, and in a modern expression it is fake news if it was news that Mrs. Zenia Stampe has that view of the royal house.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127112038	Now I see no more with short remarks, so thank the rapporteur. And the next speaker is the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, sir. Leif Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127112049	Thank you for that, President. Even though Mr. Søren Søndergaard doesn't think it's fair to spend much of the speech on praising the Crown Prince I could hear before I'll still be able to lean fully on the Prime Minister's introductory remarks about the Crown Prince's work for Denmark at all. In fact, I think this is a good opportunity to be said and stressed, given that Mr. Søren Søndergaard has chosen to present it as a problem with the royal or crown prince's actor. It's not surprising, I'd say to Mr. Knox. Søren Søndergaard. We are well aware of Enhedslisten's attitude towards the royal house. We have this demonstrated once a year when the royal family is visiting. Then Enhedslisten makes sure to stay out of the spotlight, so you are free from getting up for the royal house, and then you come in sneaky afterwards. That's how you can move in this universe. I just want to emphasise that this is a difference in attitude. So we are in fact very proud that we have a Crown Prince who is as active for Denmark as he is and does so in an excellent way. Then the Crown Prince became a member of the IOC. It is an organisation that finds its members in different ways, and it is not the case that Denmark has the right to have a seat in the IOC. The IOC has the right, if they choose it, to choose one who is Danish to sit on the committee. The discussion that took place in the years in which we were discussing whether it was also wise and good that the Crown Prince should sit in it was indeed a source of concern, because at that time the IOC's ager actually called for a lot of criticism: something closed, a little lack of democracy and perhaps a lack of fight against unclean trotting, as doping is. That is why, in fact, there is also reason to stress today that during the period the Crown Prince has been sitting there, the IOC has actually moved quite a lot towards more openness, more democracy and also a very clear fight against doping and thus cheating in sport. It is incredibly important that this fight should continue, and it has also been inspired by Denmark and strengthened by Denmark. So we think there is reason to welcome the fact that there is not the same basis now for having the concern we could have at that time, because the forum in which the Crown Prince is sitting has improved in those years. And perhaps we could also be kind enough to attribute that to others, among other things. the Crown Prince's role in it, because the Crown Prince has a healthy and good attitude to sport and is himself keenly exercising. So the IOC has improved over time, and we think that we can be pleased about this, because from this point of view, and this must also be emphasised, doping must be combated by all means. Doping must be combated by all means. It's cheating. It's cheating. It's not okay. It should not be a being that exists at all. I think everyone agrees with that. There is then the very current situation, as Mr. Søren Søndergaard has pointed out in this request that the IOC makes a decision on the basis of a series of tests. They then make a democratic decision that it is in fact the specialist associations closest to the practitioner that have to take a final decision on exclusion. It is easy to discuss whether exclusion is the best way to combat doping. Is that it? That's an open question. For then, the dialogue and sampling and the clarification of what the price is for cheating are stopped. And if it is to be, it must at least be very limited, because sport and competition are, in fact, important for everyone to be able to participate in, just in an honest way. So it would be quite hopeless if we in the Folketing were to start putting ourselves as a chief judge over the fact that a wrong decision was made by keeping the connection in order. I think that summer I sat so personally and thought that Russia should be completely excluded. This was completely unreasonable. That's what I thought. But I must respect the fact that a decision was taken to leave the decision with those closest to it, and they then made another decision. That decision was not really part of the Crown Prince, and I think that there is reason to stress it here today, because what was decided was that the Special Associations should decide it, it should not be the Committee that decided it. That is why we must use this opportunity to stress that the Crown Prince is precisely IOC's representative in Denmark and not Denmark's representative in the IOC. And it may be that in a few years' time, on the day the Crown Prince is no longer a member, we will have no representative in the IOC at all. It can happen easily. Not all countries have it. So we just want to say that it was a democratic decision that must be respected and there is no reason to criticise the royal house for it. So we fully support the proposal for adoption, which Mr. Mogens Jensen read on behalf of a number of parties. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127112558	There is one for a brief remark. Sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127112603	No, there is no reason to criticise the Royal House for that, and that is why we are raising the question of the government. And there's just what I'd like to know from Mr. Knox. Leif Mikkelsen, whether the Liberal Alliance agrees with the statements and guidelines that Anders Fogh Rasmussen, the former prime minister, laid for the Crown Prince's work in the IOC, or whether they do not agree with them.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127112629	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127112631	Well, there was reason to agree with them at the time. In fact, I have tried to point to developments, I would say to Mr. Søren Søndergaard. After all, nothing is stationary, and I actually think there was cause for concern and concern at the time when you could say: what is the real position of our crown prince? Could it be harmful to the royal house? That was the reason for seriously assessing it, and perhaps that was the concern of the then Prime Minister, and one could easily have it. And then I have tried to point out that today there is actually less reason to have concerns, and I think that history has shown that there have been no situations that have justified the fact that one should have had such a great deal of concern that, if it had been today, one should say no to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127112713	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127112715	I understand, sir. Leif Mikkelsen in the sense that the Liberal Alliance does not believe that the former Prime Minister's guidelines for the Crown Prince's work in the IOC are any longer valid.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127112727	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127112729	Now I do not think that the Liberal Alliance will decide on that point and until something else is decided, it will certainly apply. And we have an expectation, whether it is valid or not, that there is an ongoing dialogue between the government and the royal house. There are all the questions, including this one, I am quite sure of that. I actually think the government meets with the royal house regularly. We can watch that on TV, so it's not like there's no conversation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127112751	There's another questioner, sir. Peder Hvelplund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127112755	Thank you. It's just to try to figure out where that is, the Liberal Alliance is basically related to this. For the rapporteur does much to say that the Crown Prince is just the IOC's representative in Denmark, and that therefore one should not interfere with the decisions that are taken and, as the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party also mentioned earlier, it would create a great resurrection if the Crown Prince had taken a different view. But if it is the case that there is no contact at all and that the role of the Crown Prince should in no way reflect the position of the Danish Government, should one not go into the exact opposite ditch and say that there must be totally waterproof Scots, so that there can be no doubt that the Crown Prince alone acts on his own behalf and in no way represents the Danish Government's view, even if the Crown Prince is then the future Head of State?
ParlaMint-DK_20170127112845	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127112846	Now there are regular contacts, as they say, between the royal house and the government, and certainly there must be. And I am also quite sure that the Crown Prince is very aware of what is the government's policy and how he should act in continuation of it, and that is also why I have tried to emphasise what the decision-making process in the IOC is and what it is basically, the Crown Prince has decided. Yes, he has decided to be part of a democratic decision that the active specialized associations should ultimately make that decision. So he has not voted against a boycott of Russia. He has voted in favour of a democratic decision at the closest stage, and that is something quite different. So he has fully followed the guidelines one could imagine if there were guidelines. But I am confident that the Crown Prince himself will be able to judge and judge it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127112942	The second brief remark is the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127112944	I can only still not fully understand what it is like, on the one hand, that there can be a completely independent representative who has nothing to do with the Danish Government's position, because it must not be reflected because it is not a political issue, and, on the other hand, that there must be close dialogue, so that we are sure that the things that are decided and the position that is taken do not conflict with the position of the Danish Government. Well, I can't quite understand where the Liberal Alliance imagines the Crown Prince to be acting in the game where, on the one hand, you are a representative and, on the other hand, you are not at all. Because the IOC is taking a position. In other words, if you do not support a criticism that is being raised, it is also a form of opinion. At least that is the case in most assemblies.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127113031	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127113033	I would like to reiterate that there is an ongoing dialogue between the government and the royal house and the Crown Prince, and that the Crown Prince is following the signals from the Danish Government in our foreign policy, and that is right, and that is good. And as I have now tried to say sometimes, no decision has been taken by the Crown Prince, which is contrary to it either. Because it could still end with that decision in the special federations if democratically desired exclusion. So there's nothing wrong with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127113103	I see no more with brief comments to this rapporteur, so thank the rapporteur. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127113114	Unlike Mr. Søren Espersen, I would like to begin by thanking the Enhedslisten's rapporteur for this debate on questions. And I will, especially because a great deal has been written about it here in the newspapers, but there have been very few statements which have actually explained what has happened on the part of the government. A number of questions have been asked by the same rapporteur from the Enhedslisten, and it has to be said that this is what I would call inadequate answers that come back and that revolves around the subject rather than explaining what has happened in this matter, which we are curious about, because it is really, really important to talk about doping, especially in international sport. There are two things that are important to take into account in the premise. Now I know that the rapporteur for the questioners said that it is not about the role of the Crown Prince in the IOC, but there are some premises that must be in place when we discuss this here, and it is firstly that sport at this level when we talk about the Olympic Committee, it is political when we select the countries that have to hold it, it is political when decisions are taken on the exclusion of a country or boycott of a country that has previously been, and therefore we cannot say that we have to keep sport and politics separate in these forms of organisation. If you don't talk about what could be different, then the Crown Prince's role is the Crown Prince, the future Head of State in Denmark and the Crown Prince represent Denmark, even when he sits there. Although it is the IOC who has appointed him to represent them in Denmark, he is still away Dane, and when we hear him speak, people will think that here is the future Head of State of Denmark, and thus his statements are of course also Denmark's statements. What I think is important is also to look forward. I think this could have been done in many other ways than with this question debate, if, as I have said, the answers had been more directly to the questions that have been asked. It's kind of like looking forward, so how we can act in these matters forward-looking, and in order for there to be no doubt about Denmark's position, whether the Crown Prince stands up for Danish politics or represents it, we have to ask ourselves how we can do this better. How can we do better so that we do not find ourselves in a situation where there is so much doubt about his great work for international sport and for Danish sport? I think we can do that by going back to our previous Prime Minister, Mr. Anders Fogh Rasmussen, who forms this group to follow. They haven't met since January 2014, and so I understand from what I heard that it has happened very informally at random meetings, at receptions or athletic events, where you have talked a little about it. I really think that what I am taking with me from this debate is that there is a need for structures, that it is necessary for it to be more systematic that the government should follow this and direct the Crown Prince. In particular, you can read in some places in the press that four of these slightly random contacts have been made for the Crown Prince, but there has not really been a response from the court, and then perhaps there is a need for something more formal, i.e. some structures around it. I would like us not only to look back on this, but to look forward in order not to end up in such a situation again.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127113504	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Zenia Stampe, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127113512	I think this is a crazy hard case. I find it insanely difficult to have a very clear and understandable message and a very clear and understandable attitude, but I would also venture to claim that it is not entirely my fault, but because the matter is as complicated and messy as it is. This isn't about the royal house. People know how I feel about the royal house. But I think, if I am to be honest, and if I am to preempt the critics, that it would be a tiny bit inappropriate to use it against us who are dealing with the issue of course if we use our republicanism as an argument, but I have not yet heard anyone do, and neither will I. I actually care about our royal house. Once we have it, we have to take care of it, that's the way it is. So this isn't about the royal house or not. It's not about doping either. We are all against this. Nor is it about the Crown Prince's personal qualities and commitment. Nor is it a question of whether the specific decision was correct. I do not think it was, but it is a discussion that we must have in a closed consultation, where we must then also hear whether it is a position that is in agreement with the government. I guess it is. What I think is important and what I think the matter is giving rise to is, after all, a discussion about the role or roles of the Crown Prince in the IOC. This case is, of course, evidence that there is a rather high degree of ambiguity as to the role of the Crown Prince in the IOC. According to the IOC's own rules, representatives are independent of organisations and interests, and that must therefore also mean independent of countries. According to our state form, the Crown Prince is the future Head of State, and therefore he is a representative of Denmark, and he is a representative of the Danish government, but he is also politically neutral. There is already a certain amount of ambiguity here. If he were to fill this crown prince's role in the IOC, should he remain neutral and leave the room every time there was something political, or should he, in turn, fight for the Danish political line? Already there is some ambiguity, I think. Anders Fogh Rasmussen himself tried to take account of this dilemma by setting up a coordination committee to ensure that there would never be a contradiction between what the Crown Prince does and says and the political line. He said that was the very purpose of it. I think that this matter clearly shows that it is not a solution. It is incredibly difficult, if not impossible, to make a sharp distinction between the roles I described earlier, that is to say to be appointed by virtue of its personal qualities and to represent only itself and of course also to be IOC's representative on the one hand and then, on the other hand, to be Denmark's future head of state, who is sometimes used as a mouthpiece for Denmark and the Danish government, but at other times must remain completely politically neutral, because there is also a political reality here in Denmark, where some would probably be unhappy if the Crown Prince were running around and was the government's extended arm. So it is a man with an incredibly large number of hats on whom we have put in a body with a very unclear mandate. At the same time, it is true that he has no mandate, because this must not be done under the IOC rules. This is definitely not a criticism of the Crown Prince, because I actually think it's an impossible task. Nor do I have the imagination to imagine that he has gone against the government's recommendation. I can more easily imagine that the government has informed about government policy, but also said: We have no expectation that you are sitting all alone with an English organization and voting against the IOC; we might understand that this would be an unpleasant situation for you and perhaps also for Denmark as such. I would be able to understand that, and we may be able to have that discussion in a closed session. But I just think the case shows how impossible a task it is that we have put on the crown prince. I know that he himself wanted this, but I really think it is an unfair situation that he has ended up in. That is why this is certainly not a criticism of him, but it is a criticism of a construction which I never think could succeed entirely satisfactorily either for the Crown Prince or for us, because it is so unclear what role he really plays. We support the government parties' proposals for adoption. We can easily take note of that and, of course, we will also be glad that there is an ongoing dialogue. But we, like the Danish People's Party, were very sceptical about the construction when it came to taking a position on this issue, because we think it puts the Crown Prince in a very unfortunate situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127114028	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Beazley's report. Holger K. Nielsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127114041	It is not our wish to discredit either the Crown Prince or the Royal House through this debate. In fact, we believe that the Crown Prince is a very great asset for the royal house and also for Danish society, and when there is such support for the royal house here in Denmark, this is largely due to the Crown Prince and his wife. We are well aware that the Crown Prince is genuinely interested in sport. He is very concerned about this, he is committed to it, and I agree with those who say that he is a model for many young people in this context and that he is doing a very, very good job. But the fact that he is involved in sport and is a model for many young people and does a great deal of work is not the same as that he should be with a member of the IOC; there is, after all, the chain jumps off; it is that you like to draw that connection. That's the whole problem in this. When it was decided at the time, many were concerned, including myself. I warned strongly against it. And then there are some who say here today that, as the years have passed, their concern has diminished. I just don't get the sound of that. What has happened here is an expression of what we warned against. That is precisely what has happened here, namely that the Crown Prince has come into a position where he came to take a political position, and then even against the position of the Danish Government. Politics and sport cannot be separated. It's been like this all along. After all, the Olympic movement has always been infected by politics back from the Nazi Games in 1936 over the games in Moscow and to Los Angeles etc. and so on, and it will be no less. Not least countries such as Russia are using very offensive sport to promote political agendas, and that is also why the Russian doping programme has come up. In this context, that sport is becoming more politicised and that it is reflected in the IOC, the Crown Prince is, after all, put in a totally impossible situation through his membership of the IOC, a completely impossible situation in which he is being forced to take a political position on issues with which the IOC is concerned. In this context, as others have said, his roles cannot be separated. One cannot separate the Crown Prince from another person who is not the Crown Prince, and like saying that he has different roles. And as a crown prince, he also has to be in that role when he works in the IOC. It is then that it becomes completely, utterly hopeless when he has to take a political position. For it is a prerequisite for the Danish monarchy in the Danish constitution that the royal house should act apolitically. This was also well known when he joined the IOC, and that is why Anders Fogh Rasmussen was very concerned, but reduced the various groups here who were supposed to try to deal with this, so there was no great damage. That's what seems to have slipped in this context. I don't know why this communication hasn't been enough. There are some e-mails that have not come forward and that I hope will come forward at some point. I assume, then, that the government has tried to do so, bearing in mind the commitment of the then Minister of Culture to this matter. Well, then you have to assume it is. That is all the more reason why we have the critical eye on this and that we are really aware that this is just not going to work out. It is simply not acceptable for a Crown Prince to act on the one hand as a political prince and, on the other, as a Crown Prince who acts deeply politically in the IOC context and even in a conflict with government policy. It just cannot be done, and we need to take this much more seriously than has been done so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127114525	Thank you, sir. Holger K. Nielsen. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127114533	Thank you. There has been a fairly long and thorough debate on this, and I shall not make it unnecessary for much longer. Let me start by saying that I really agree very much with the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr President. Søren Espersen, compared to the fact that this might have been better discussed in other forums. Perhaps a closed consultation would have given more of the debate that has been requested by the Enhedslisten. It is also particularly important to discuss something here where the one it deals with has no opportunity to reply. I should also like to thank another Mr Søren, the rapporteur of the Enhedslisten. Søren Søndergaard, to explain what this debate is about and is not about. It's not about the Crown Prince's membership of the IOC. It has a majority in the Folketing voted in favour, and one must also say that it is not certain that Denmark has a member in the IOC at all. I also fully agree with the Prime Minister in his observations that the Crown Prince is taking this task very, very well. Nor is it a debate for and against the royal house, although as a conservative I would like to make a very passionate speech about why I believe that the Danish monarchy plays an important role in our society. From the conservative side we are actually confident that there is an ongoing dialogue with the Royal House about His Royal Highness The Crown Prince's membership of the IOC. Whether it is formalized or more informal is not really what is so crucial for us. What matters to us is that the dialogue is present, whether it be in the coordination group or through such more unofficial continuous conversations. In addition, I would also like to add that, like all the other parties and rapporteurs who have been on the platform, we of course also condemn the use of doping. That is not really what is at the heart of what we are discussing here today. But now that everyone else has said so, I dare not think about what could be concluded if I did not say so. So I would just like to round off and say that I think we have had an excellent discussion about this, but from the Conservative People's Party we are confident in the way things work and are happy with the great task that the Crown Prince promises through his membership of the IOC.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127114748	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments here either. Then it's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127114758	Thank you. I, too, shall be brief. I would like to thank you for a good debate, and I also think that a dignified debate has confirmed alongside everything else, as I am listening to it, that there is a great deal of agreement that the Crown Prince is doing an amazing job, among other things. in relation to having children and young people engaged in sports. Everyone has recognised this and recognised it, and I am very pleased about it. The Crown Prince is also in an international context a fantastic representative of Denmark. There is no doubt, as I said in my opening remarks, as several of the rapporteurs have also said, that when members of the Royal House choose to engage, this is a choice which I welcome, incidentally, but it is of course also a choice that must be made under the conditions which their position in a constitutional monarchy, such as the Danish one, makes necessary. I also feel that we agree on the framework for this. There is a claim of neutrality with regard to political affairs as a basic condition. Having said that, it would be a pity for Denmark if we had a less active and less open royal house. I am glad, for example, that we are here. has a Crown Princess who is strongly committed also to the international agenda on women's equality, which in many other countries is also a high political agenda, but which she is doing in a very distinguished way and of course also in a way where she is, and it is also just to address some issues about dialogue between the royal house and government. Of course, she also has an ongoing dialogue with the central administration and relevant ministers to inform herself about where the Danish consensus is, I had almost said, so that, to put it bluntly, she does not get it wrong. In parallel, we have the situation here with the Crown Prince, who works in the IOC, and who does it nicely. I fully share the description as LA's rapporteur, Mr. Leif Mikkelsen, gave of the general trend that has been in the IOC since the Crown Prince became a member. So if Mrs Zenia Stampe thinks that the Crown Prince has been put on an impossible task, that is to say an impossible mission, then we must also note here that we have a strong Crown Prince who has been able to handle it because it is moving in the right direction. It is not to start a big IOC debate, but it is just that one cannot think of a single international forum, where there is also a Danish representation, where everything is just like we want it to be, and that is why it will be so in a broad context that our participation around, among other things. must be judged on whether things are moving in the right or the wrong direction. I would simply like to repeat what I said from the outset, namely that whatever one might think of the royal house, and of course it is also stated in the debate here, there are some parties which, in principle, do not think that we should have such a royal house at all, but there is an extremely large majority which backs up the Crown Prince's membership of the IOC, in my view, has not been an obstacle to the government having been able to conduct its sports policy, including in an international context. It is the government's view that the Crown Prince has managed his membership of the IOC in an appropriate and satisfactory manner, and I am pleased that it also seems to be the general view of the vast majority of the Danish Parliament's parties. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127115155	Thank you, Prime Minister. And then it's sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127115208	I would also like to start by thanking you for the debate, but then add that there is one thing that has always puzzled me, namely that when we discuss aspects of the Royal House's work and function • also very concrete aspects • it will be lightning fast for such a discussion about for or against the royal house or that there are some who do not want the royal house well. And one after another stands up and swears like allegiance and loyalty, etc. I'm wondering if it's really not a little unhealthy. So, I think it is unhealthy for the royal house, but it is also unhealthy for Danish democracy that we cannot have an open discussion about elements of the Danish royal house, just as we have an open discussion about all other matters in Danish society. After all, this is not a personal discussion about certain individuals. It is a question of what is appropriate. An expression of the trend has then been that we have had such a Comic Ali in this discussion. Honourable Members remember Comian Ali from the Iraq War. He spoke for Saddam Hussein and then stood and denied that the American troops had come to Baghdad while driving around in the background. You could see them through the camera. And here we have also had several rapporteurs who have denied that there was like a problem, denying that there was a difference between what the government said and what the Crown Prince said and did. But it's obvious to everyone. It is obvious to everyone even to Comic Ali, although Komic Ali will not admit that the government said one thing, and that the Crown Prince said and did something else. That is beyond doubt, and that is what we are discussing. So is it the Crown Prince's fault? I have, of course, tried to say in this debate that I think it is the government's fault. I mean, I think it's the government that has a problem, among other things. because the government is not responding clearly to what has been said in this matter. On the role of the Crown Prince, I would like to say at the outset that this is not about whether or not the Crown Prince is a member of the IOC, because that is what a majority wants. But now that he is there, it is clear that there must be some rules of the game, and in my opinion the rules of his role in the IOC must be that he can do exactly what he wants and that he can vote, just as he will, on all issues, except when the important question is where the Danish Government or the Danish Parliament has made a decision. Then it just won't work. Then you either have to choose to refrain, to go to flight hide or to go to the bathroom, or whatever you can do. Then you have to do it or follow the government's position. There is no other way, and I really think it is strange that this should be discussed. That is also why we have had the rather strange discussion, where parties that were cheerful about Anders Fogh Rasmussen cannot just stand up and say: We agree with what Anders Fogh Rasmussen said at the time; we stand by it, and we think that this is the starting point for the work. Why don't you just say that? I mean, it's not that long ago that you sat and supported it in this Chamber. But now, like something odious, there must be no difference between what the government says and what the Crown Prince says and does on essential political issues. I think that could be made quite clear. That has been chosen not to do, and I think that is really a pity. So what's the conclusion of this? So, Mrs Zenia Stampe of the Radical Left comes to the conclusion that this process shows that it is not possible for the Crown Prince to be in the International Olympic Committee. It's possible. It's just not a conclusion I've been trying to promote here. The conclusion I have tried to make here is, in fact, a more limited conclusion: as long as he is there, there must be rules of the game. And, of course, it also requires that we have a knowledge of what has happened. That's why I asked you some questions. I asked the questions: Was it because the government, contrary to Anders Fogh Rasmussen's promise, had not secured proper contact with the Crown Prince that the Crown Prince said and did the opposite of the government? Or was it because the Crown Prince listened to the advice he received from the government but did not follow them? Or was it because the government really had one policy towards the public and another policy, which they advised the Crown Prince and which he then followed? These are very relevant questions. Unfortunately, we have to say at this stage that not one of these questions has been answered. I think that is a little too bad, but as far as the future is concerned, I would just like to call for the words of the former Prime Minister to be taken into account. And you can, among other things. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127115736	Thank you, sir. Søren Søndergaard. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. The vote on the proposed adoption will take place on Tuesday 31 January 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127115800	The debate is open. The Minister for Children and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127115818	Thank you very much. The government understands the motion for a resolution in such a way that the Danish People's Party believes that the possibility of divorce has led many couples to apply for divorce without being able to withdraw their application. The government fully agrees with the proposers that it should be considered carefully before divorce, because marriage and family are some of the cornerstones of our society and something that we should each take very good care of, not least for the sake of the children affected by an uncertain family situation. And, of course, the government supports marriage as the cornerstone of a well - functioning family life. The government is of the opinion that the resolution is based on a slightly misunderstood assumption that there are many who regret their application for divorce without being able to withdraw it, because that is not the case. After all, it takes some procedure to get there. Both figures and experiences show this. In 2016, the State Administration granted grants for direct divorce in approx. 11,000 cases, while it is estimated that only 1 to 2 pairs a week try unsuccessfully to revoke their application for divorce. Against this background, the government believes that there is no basis for rolling back anything that works for a great many when only very few people regret their application and do not have time to withdraw it before the divorce is a reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127115957	Those were the words of the Minister, and there is a brief comment, which is from Mrs Karin Nødgaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127120010	Thank you. It was then a very, very brief speech from the Minister, a conservative minister, who has been speaking for several years now about very much in the environmental field, in the whole debate on value, how we live and act so that I am very surprised. That is why I would very much like the Minister to clarify what the Minister has said in the past, namely that it is a slippery slope that you can divorce from one day to the next by clicking sometimes with the computer mouse. Marriage is quite simply worth protecting a lot more, and I think it is a really big decision to divorce and think it is something that has been overruled in the past. I have also noted that the Minister has said that it is very good to have a separation period in which the couples can have a good dialogue, towards a divorce. I do not think that is at all consistent with what the Minister says in his ultra-short ministerial speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127120105	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127120106	I am very, very pleased that things are going straight home and that it is understood by virtually everyone that family policy is very important both for me as a minister, but also for the government as a whole. And it is also very nice to be reminded of all the times I, as rapporteur, have been out to comment on family policy. Now it is the case that today I am a minister, and in the government we have decided that the basis on which the resolution itself is based is not, in fact, the need to go in and make changes. Then there may be all sorts of other changes you can go in and look at. But on the very assumption that it should be because there are too many who seek to cancel their divorce in vain, I can say that there are not so many of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127120152	Mrs. Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127120156	After all, the government is made up of three parties, and if one party has such a marked family policy as the Minister himself says it has in Conservatives, then I am very surprised that it has simply not got through any of the things that it has actually stood for and it has been written into the government basis. I would really like a comment from the Minister on that. In addition, I would like to hear from the Minister some figures that I also used in my proposal, which says that one in eight pairs actually regretted in 2014 and that it was 3.342 who withdrew their applications. After all, is that not a fairly significant figure?
ParlaMint-DK_20170127120238	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127120239	So, the figures I have been informed are that in 2016, as I said, the State Administration granted direct divorce grants in approx. 11,000 cases, and out of the 11,000 cases it is estimated that approx. 1-2 two couples a week try in vain to revoke their application for divorce. And that is what the proposal is all about, in other words those who try in vain to withdraw their application for divorce. That's why the government doesn't think there's any basis for rolling this back when it's just so few people who regret their application and don't have time to withdraw it before the divorce is a reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127120317	Then it's mr. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127120320	Thank you. Can't the Minister help me find the thread of government policy? Now that, as a minister, we have been very keen to do something good for family life and to introduce more advice so that we avoid more broken families, is it not natural to say that, if such a consultation is now going wrong for a single day, one cannot just go home and sit down at the computer, pull a NemID out and divorce? Is it not to go in and say that we are now going to do something for family life, rather than just let it go without giving it any effort, giving it some thought?
ParlaMint-DK_20170127120405	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127120406	Again, I am actually genuinely excited that it is so clear that family life means a lot to me both as a minister, but also to the government, because then it has succeeded in getting that message out well. In fact, I also fully agree with Mr Seligman. Jeppe Jakobsen in that counseling and mediation in a divorce time can be a really, really good idea. After all, we can see that mediation has been part of an attempt which has been carried out in the state administrations and which has actually meant that some of these couples will then have a better and a much less conflicting divorce. Therefore, it could be really interesting, when it is that we have to discuss a one-tier family justice system, that we have looked more at such a counselling and mediation function. Everyone is therefore free to make suggestions as to what else they would like to have into such negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127120503	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127120504	But what I asked about was the common thread in which, as a government, you want to go into this and try to encourage thought before you let a family perish, causing a marriage to perish, i.e. whether you should advise or you should talk. 'Cause if you just one day in a heated moment think that that's enough, can you go in with your NemID and say that's it, and you stop here? Would it not be a natural extension of this idea of advice and conversation to say that a divorce decision is not just one that is just taken one day after an argument about who should do the dishes?
ParlaMint-DK_20170127120551	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127120553	Then I also need to remind you of the personal responsibility in this. It sounds like I'm the one who's killing whole families. It is, of course, primarily the personal responsibility of the family, that is to say, the husband and woman, when it is that one enters a marriage and also the way one gets out of a marriage. It must first of all be up to the parties themselves to come to a good conclusion if they decide to conclude it. Then there are some who cannot find out, and there you can then by various means look at how to get them helped.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127120636	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments, so we shall move on to the rapporteur's line. And that is first Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127120647	Somehow, I think, we are pre-empting some negotiations that we are facing, and I think that is mostly quite inappropriate, in other words, taking too long public debates on something that is on the table. And that is how I see this proposal as not necessarily inappropriate for us to debate it, because it is always fine, but it is on the negotiating table. At least it does in our optics. We have listened to the Danish People's Party's view that this is really important, and I can just say that we are not doing this on the part of the Social Democrats. And then it is, of course, that we should be careful not to negotiate in the open. But I would like to say on this point that we voted in the Social Democratic Party for the right to be divorced immediately, and when we did so it is because it is two adult people who make a decision, and we think it is appropriate for them to be allowed to carry out their work. And there we are still, because it is quite a few years ago that this legislation was implemented, and we are standing exactly where we did when we voted for that part of the law. It is the case today that you can get divorced immediately if you agree. Otherwise, it still takes a separation period before you can get a divorce. So we think that the legislation is fine as it is today. It is also the case that you can divorce without having been separated first, even if there is no agreement if there are special circumstances to support it. Moreover, it has been the case for a very long time now, that is to say, if there are special circumstances in favour of it, for example. that there has been violence or adultery or the like, abductions of common children or such things, then, without the other's consent, you can be divorced without a separation period. I think we should wait to go into the discussion in such depth until we sit at a negotiating table where we can talk the details through. For the Social Democratic Party, it is vitally important in the forthcoming negotiations that we have a look at the conditions in which there are children. It makes a very big difference to us in the Social Democratic Party whether we are talking about two adult people who make a decision without, by the way, harming other people or whether we are talking about two adult people with children involved. In other words, we believe that some of the points that should be taken into account in the negotiations are, in fact, primarily children. It's about caring for the best interests of the children. It's where the community has a special obligation. For a mother and a father are not always able, unfortunately, to fully care for the child's best interests in connection with a divorce during the period when they are in crisis and some of them are not after the crisis period either. And there we in the Social Democratic Party believe that it is the cursed duty of society and the community to make sure that those children come out with as few bruises in life as possible. So I would like to introduce that differentiation, i.e. that I think there is a very big difference between whether there are other people who are at risk of getting hurt because of a divorce or whether there isn't. But these are the comments I have now and I look forward to a long process of negotiation in which we are going through a thorough process. And I should like to say from the SF that the SF agrees to vote against this motion for a resolution. But let us now get to work on the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127120934	First of all, we need to make a brief comment and it is from Mrs Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127120938	Thank you. I am not entirely surprised that the rapporteur says as the rapporteur does. I would just like to make it clear that when we make this proposal, it is not to start negotiations here. This has actually been DF's policy for several years before one, the other and the third divorce package, and what has been done. We have spoken for it, even when we had the legislative proposal itself, L 157, under consideration, because we were very concerned about the fact that we should not have a separation period. So it is not about us starting some negotiations here, but we actually want to have a debate on it. Because we also believe that, on the basis of some of the arguments put forward by the Social Democratic Party on the best interests of the child and that the community should be made aware that it is important to look at it. That is why I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur could imagine a different kind of separation period. Maybe it doesn't have to be six months. You could make it shorter and say that then it has to be some kind of re-confirmation, so that it doesn't have to be about going over a weekend, because you've just been up on your feet or something. The rapporteur also mentions the children several times in his speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127121044	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127121045	I think we should talk about this at the negotiating table. When I say that with the negotiating table, it is not really to scold that the Danish People's Party is taking it up. I know that this has always been the position of the Danish People's Party. In fact, it was more an indication that I accept that the Danish People's Party is putting it on the negotiating table. This means that we do not, on the part of the Social Democrats, get to the negotiating table with ultimate demands and say that we cannot discuss this at all with the Danish People's Party. Our view is that when we talk about something as crucial as divorce law, something that interferes with so many families, it is important to us that all the parties in the Folketing are present at the negotiating table and end up reaching an agreement with each other as far as possible. I would therefore like to begin by simply listening to what is being said. I've also been pulled on the smile tape, albeit seriously, because the divorce rate is rising this weekend. Perhaps that was not the intention of the legislation that was made.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127121133	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127121134	Yes, it is rising, and then there are some who regret, and then their case has been dealt with, and then it is actually too late, and then they complain that there is too little processing time etc. So it's kind of the reverse world. However, when the rapporteur says that we need to get it into this, I do not think that the rapporteur is quite precise enough in terms of how we might cut the cake a little differently. Because I think it's so important that we focus on these kids who often get involved in this too. Does the rapporteur not think that reflecting on some things is really very healthy, whether you are parents who have to divorce or whether you are a politician? It is also good that when we do some things we just reflect on it. So I do not think it is entirely clear what the rapporteur is thinking about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127121221	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127121222	That's because you get nothing but a politician's answer from me at this point in the negotiations. I have walked a little and laughed and thought that maybe we should make such an alkometer on the computer, so that before an instant divorce one should just blow in one of those, and if you were completely orange-free, it could go through, and otherwise it couldn't. I admit that we have some problem with that. We'll have to take a look at that. But I would say that the starting point of the Social Democratic Party is completely unchanged, namely that adults who are in their right mind can discuss whether they are on Saturday night after half a bottle of gin and tonic should of course be able to make a decision and implement it. But let us get to work on the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127121258	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then it is Mrs Karin Nødgaard, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127121311	I choose to divide my speech into two parts today. When the law on immediate divorces was passed in 2013, the Danish People's Party voted against it. At that time, as now, we believe that there should be a separation period of six months. I would like to make it clear before the debate starts so seriously that this proposal does not concern cases where there are special circumstances, which are also described in the Marriage Act §32-36, where for example. There is a mention of adultery, violence, sexual abuse, bigami and child abductions. We believe that a separation period of six months or a period of reflection, as one might call it, is the right thing to do. It is because, statistically speaking, there is evidence that several couples regret the divorce. In 2014, every eighth couple regretted that they had applied for divorce. Some were able to withdraw the application before it was processed, and some did not reach it and thus were divorced. For the Danish People's Party, it is very important to make it clear that a marriage is something special. It is when it is concluded, but it is when you want to step out of it. For us, marriage is an institution in our society, an institution that has naturally changed over the ages. In the past, marriages were often also made for more practical reasons. There was not always the equality that we know about today between the spouses, and the marriage was previously made much more on different terms. There was often an economic dependence, which is not the same today. Moreover, it was also a time when women were often not on the labour market but were at home and then stood for children and household. When a marriage is concluded, there are, as a starting point, many considerations that have been made. It can be very diverse considerations • practical, emotional, financial etc. During that period, there may not be much thought that it may not hold up. That can then be discussed whether it is good or bad, because it can actually be very obvious to discuss that scenario while love is intact. However, that is not what we are discussing today, but something that we will be doing before too long, as we have just said, because we have seen this in the government's legislative programme. When the expression is used for better or for worse, it may not be entirely random, because no matter how much you love each other and how much you want to share life with each other, there are also days and periods of adversity where it is a little more sad and sour. But since marriage is just an institution that contains it all, it is worth protecting and caring for, not least if there are children in the relationship. Marriage is the foundation of the family, even though today life is very much lived outside the four walls of the home: you are at work, you are at school, you are in institution. But the home should be stable in a child's upbringing. When you enter into marriage, you make a promise that is very significant not only for your own but also for your loved ones' lives. That is why there must also be very serious reasons for breaking that promise. They think the Danish People's Party is only able to look for a certain period of reflection. One should not remain in a marriage at all costs, one should not wear out, but it is probably quite healthy that one should consider it very carefully if one wants to divorce, since it can help in several ways not to regret the decision and that, if there are children, one can defend that action. For children, it is usually the most ideal thing for parents to find out together and you stay together as a unit, as a family. Divorce figures are very high in Denmark, and I am not saying that not many considerations have been made until a decision has been made to divorce, but the figures for how many people regret it may indicate that it will be good with a period of thought and assessment of the consequences and what the real cause of the breach is. And if it's the same reason you get to it after a few months, it's not safe. Because no matter what life offers, it is not always just cake and green forests, as they say, it is also hard work and duties. The same is true of marriage. You may forget that for a moment and therefore go to something you so quickly regret. It's sad. Therefore, the Danish People's Party would very much like to reinstate this period of reflection, unless, of course, there is a reason for divorce under the provisions of the Marriage Act. So now we look forward to the comments of the other rapporteurs, and then we have some final comments at the end.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127121758	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127121802	Thank you, and thank you for your speech. It's just an investigative question. I am also well aware that this has been DF's policy for a long time, so it is not in any way such a troll that jumps out of a box. But now that we have these extensive divorce proceedings in the Ministry of Social Affairs and there is a commission going on, why is it that the DF is now putting forward this resolution right in the middle of the negotiations? What's the idea behind that?
ParlaMint-DK_20170127121833	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127121834	Well, this is a continuous debate that the Danish People's Party has had for many years, in relation to the family area, in relation to marriage, in relation to children, so I really do not think it is so strange. And so I would like to say that, as far as I know, we are not really in the process now. There has been a change of government, and we are waiting, because I have not been invited to any negotiations, and I do not suppose that Mr. Torsten Gejl is.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127121901	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127121904	It's sir. Torsten Gejl neither. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127121905	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mr. Carl Holst, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127121914	The Left thanks the Danish People's Party for tabling the motion for a resolution so that we have the debate but cannot support the proposal. We are leaning on what the Minister explained in a brief, rich and good speech, which just outlined what the nuances of this question are. When it was introduced in 2013, the Left voted against. Those who go in and read what it was that was the cornerstone of the Left's vote against at the time will see that it was not so much the immediate divorce problem as the centralisation of state jobs, which also bore the bill back in 2013. I believe that we all agree that marriage is an essential, vital element for both adults and children who grow up. Therefore, it is also serious when not least children are increasingly experiencing divorces, because they have a negative effect on the child's well-being. Nor should you think that marriage is something you just do, and then you can have a probationary period and then let it end. The Left's approach to this is to take marriage seriously. I'm not a big fan of television broadcasts like "Married at first sight," but you can ask the question if when you do broadcasts like "Married at first sight," you can't also do broadcasts that could be called "Signed at one click." And, of course, you can also discuss whether it makes sense for you to get divorced at a click but can only quit a job at one month's notice. Having said all that, we are in the situation of starting some negotiations because I agree with Mrs Karin Nødgaard that the negotiations have barely started yet again on the whole area of divorce, and there I think we should be willing to discuss everything, all elements, in relation to what is the government's starting point for the negotiations, namely to have a future organisation of the divorce area, which is more one-tier, so that a couple who want to divorce will be considered and properly, in good contact with various public bodies, and will also meet public bodies in a way that is conflict-reducing and not conflict-generating. We look forward very much to meeting widely with the parties on the basis of the government's proposal for a one-tier divorce system. So much of the debate is, after all, a question of what is economic and what is conflicting with the two adult people who choose to divorce, but we must also have a sharp look at the legal certainty of the child in those negotiations. In other words, how do we ensure that children in the future, when they experience their parents being divorced, feel that their attitude, their opinion, as the child of two divorced adults, is taken seriously? Having said that, however, we should not think that divorce is something that is a fixed size, which there is also a firm, uniform solution to the problem because there is not. There are very different starting points for all divorces. One might have the idea that individual divorces might even benefit children, because marriage is such that it is not for the benefit of children as it is. One can have the approach that something is economic, that is, that it is conflicting or that it is about the association between parents and children with a divorce. My point is that, in the forthcoming negotiations, we need to see that the solution is not one model, but a one-tier system that is not conflict-creating, but conflict-enhancing, and also a system that is based on what needs to be done: the individual situation of each marriage in which they have come to the realization that they want to be separated. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127122427	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is one brief comment from Mrs Karin Nødgaard, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127122433	Thank you. I do not really know where to go, because there were several points raised by the rapporteur, among others. the original bill, L 157. And there the rapporteur says directly that this was not really a matter of particular concern to us. I may be concerned when the Left is today the largest governing party and perhaps one of the leading parties in relation to the negotiations that are being talked about so much. So I do not think that is entirely in line with the rapporteur's saying that marriage should be taken seriously and so on. But I would like to hear from the rapporteur: when the rapporteur mentions the legal certainty of the child as something very important for the Left, will a separation period be able to then perhaps discuss the length of it, I do not know that it is precisely not part of ensuring the legal certainty of the child? I think it is incredibly important that we focus on this, which is why I think that some of the things the rapporteur says contradict each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127122529	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127122531	Either I got the wording wrong and I regret that or Mrs Karin Nødgaard heard it a little different than I meant it, and than I actually said it, where I openly and honestly acknowledged that we were opposed to the introduction of the possibility of immediate divorce in 2013. However, when this was discussed at the time, it was also in the wake of the intention to reorganise the management structure and move jobs from what some call outside Valby Hill and centralise them. That was also the focal point. My point was simply that there were several elements in it at the time. But yes, the Left voted against the introduction of immediate divorce. And no, it is not quite fair to take it as an indication that we are not taking it seriously. Then you asked about the child's legal certainty, and I'll answer that in the next round. Now my time is up.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127122641	That is correct. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127122643	Well, I have some new questions: why has the Left changed its position since then, compared to introducing this separation period? I simply do not understand that. The Left is a large party, and the Left has also sat in a government where you sat there alone. Now you're the big party in a three-clover government, and I just can't understand why the Left hasn't held on to this, that there should be this separation period. So I would like to hear: has the rapporteur seen a new proposal from the new government, because I have not? The rapporteur speaks as if what the V government has put forward is also what is being put forward when we have to meet at some point.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127122719	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127122720	The child's legal certainty has a major role to play, but the child's legal certainty I am about to answer a question from the first round, I'm sorry you can't see in the light of whether it's one way or another you get divorced. The child's legal certainty is a matter of thinking of you instead of systems and models!, not you children of divorce, but you individually. What's yours It's what we want in the center: the child's wishes. We have not changed our attitude. I have explained what we voted and what the main reasons were then: centralisation of state jobs. I have also explained that we are willing to discuss this in the forthcoming negotiations. There has been an initiative from the previous government, there is a working group, and we are about to get started.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127122812	Then we say thank you to the rapporteur and move forward, and that is Mr Beazley. Peder Hvelplund, this is Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127122821	Thank you. It is of course an interesting debate to get into here, because we get a lot about both the sign at the first click and the suggestion that alkometers should be installed on the computer before you can use it and go into NemID. Now we are talking about divorce and the position of children in relation to divorce, but when it comes to children, it is also about cohabitation and the cessation of cohabitation and not only about whether people are married or not. But what this proposal is about is the possibility of being able to use immediate divorces, and there it was that under the previous government we were in the Enhedslisten to remove the separation period of 6 months for couples who agree that they want to divorce. We see no need for administrative restrictions to be placed in the way of adult people living together or choosing to stop living together as they wish, as long as they agree on it. That is why we do not want to support this resolution either. We recognise, of course, that there are a few couples who take too impulsive action and apply for divorce, after which they regret it, but we do not think that the right way to go is to prevent the couples who actually benefit from this scheme from having it just because there are a few who use it inappropriately. And it is always a good idea that you have the opportunity to regret a decision you have made. In those cases where only one party wants to divorce, there must of course be a degree of protection, and in those cases it is still mandatory with the six months in which the parties can reach agreement on how to organise their further life. We believe that the important thing in maintaining a relationship is not to maintain a marriage beyond what those involved want. Instead, we are concerned about how we can protect children when their parents can't figure out how to live together anymore, whether their parents are married or not. Children are not helped by their parents staying in an unhappy marriage or living together for the sake of their children. We would therefore like to point out some measures that we in the Enhedslist have been involved in promoting before and which we believe can help to support children if they experience problems in their families. We would like to highlight the right of children to both be heard and listened to, preferably with the support of a sidekick, so that they are not taken hostage in consensual conflicts. We would also like to strengthen prevention in situations where there is conflict between parents. We see, for example. the possibility of implementing social workers in day-care institutions or the extension of existing trials with parental counselling as PREP courses. This kind of action can also help couples before the conflict escalates into more violent problems of cohabitation. We are therefore voting against the motion for a resolution today, but we want to help help children who get stuck when their parents can't together anymore.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127123124	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is one brief comment from Mrs Karin Nødgaard, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127123128	Thank you. The last expression was actually: helping children who get stuck. Does the rapporteur not think that children in particular can get into a great deal of trouble if, from one day to the next, you see that your parents have just been divorced, for example? Over the night? There I think a lot that Enhedslisten's policy is that I have often heard from various rapporteurs that it is precisely to focus on this child and on how to help the child as much as possible and to ensure that children do not actually become exposed children. We often talk about vulnerable children in a certain way, because it can be the way they say in society, but in principle you can also be very exposed to the fact that you may actually live in a well-functioning family, but at the moment of divorce, you are actually exposed in some other ways than we otherwise think about being exposed to. That is why I think it would perhaps be obvious that we had a period of reflection. And could the Enhedslisten perhaps work with us in relation to having a slightly shorter period of reflection introduced?
ParlaMint-DK_20170127123228	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127123229	Now I do not think it is so much about administrative measures. It can be said that, when it comes to children and children's situations, this is often a very specific situation, and that is why it is a question of strengthening preventive action. The problem is not so much whether your parents have clicked on a divorce button if only the next day they agree that it is a bad idea. Then the child does not experience the big problem in relation to it. If there are problems with living together, it is not a question of restricting administrative action, but then it is a question of enabling preventive action to be taken and helping children at the very moment when they experience that there are specific problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127123304	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127123305	I fully agree with that about prevention. This is one of the things that I have talked about very often, because we can avoid a great many things in the social field if we work preventively. I do not believe that we have achieved anything at all, and I believe that there is a long way to go, even if we have an agreement in this area. Then there's the thing about just regretting. Should I understand that the rapporteur actually believes that it does not mean so much if you regret it, because then you can just call them Monday morning and say that we have really regretted what we did? Isn't that taking a little loose on the whole institution called marriage?
ParlaMint-DK_20170127123339	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127123340	Fortunately, it is also in very, very few cases that there are those who act so impulsively. I think that in this debate we should be careful not to turn it into a debate that this is the kind of thing people just do when they're sitting at the computer. For a great many families, this is helping to make rapid progress without any administrative constraints in relation to it. Very often it will also help to strengthen the child's position, to get clarification quickly and to move forward. The fact that there are a few cases in which it does not work does not mean that we should not be able to get a smoother start on this, moreover, and especially when it is something that can be of benefit to the child. I agree entirely that when we look at preventive work on children, we still have a long way to go. We would really like to help focus on this, and we would like to help strengthen some of the initiatives that have already been launched.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127123440	In doing so, we would like to thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Laura Lindahl from the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127123447	The Danish People's Party proposes here to amend the marriage law so that it is no longer possible to divorce without a separation period of 6 months. This has been the case in the past, i.e. the state prevented people from getting divorced immediately, unless there were exceptional reasons for the divorce, for example. violence or adultery. But in 2013 we changed it, so couples who want to divorce, that is to say agree that you don't want to be married anymore, can do so without having to have a special reason for it, except that you just don't want to be married anymore. The Liberal Alliance voted on the proposal because it is completely in line with our policy that the state should interfere as little as possible in our lives, and it should certainly not interfere in whether we are to marry and when we are to divorce. It must be our own decision. I understand that the argument is that divorce is an incredibly large decision, and I fully agree with that. But there are many decisions in life that are very big. It's a very big decision to get married. It's a very big decision to have children. It is a very big decision to buy a new house, change jobs, change institutions on behalf of your children. There are a lot of big decisions in life. Making big and hard decisions is part of life. Does this mean that the state must wrap us all up, in other words, provide for a six-month period of reflection every time we face a difficult decision in our lives, which can also involve our children? For it is very important for our children if we choose to move from Zealand to Jutland. Should we think about it for six months before we can do so, or should we be confident that people who get married, who bring children into the world and who have a family think before they make big decisions? Of course, we have to trust that families do that, parents do that, both when it comes to getting married, divorced, having children and changing jobs, and what else can be of big and difficult decisions in life. I'm a liberal. I am confident that people can assume personal responsibility and I am confident that they do so today. That's why I don't want the state to interfere. It is absolutely true that we can then see that there are some who regret. But making wrong choices is also part of life. It's part of life. I do not think that any of us are sitting in this Chamber who have not tried to make a mistake and make a decision that was wrong. That's the way it is. But of course, before making the decision, when it comes to divorces, all considerations have been made as to whether this is the right thing to do. And then it's lucky that we don't stop people from getting back together if you find out it was actually the right thing to do. So, of course, the Liberal Alliance does not support this proposal either.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127123752	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is one for a brief remark, and that is Mrs Karin Nødgaard, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127123758	It was actually an excellent speech, because it said everything that I am opposed to. It was really so clear that the Liberal Alliance's policy was there. I acknowledge that, but I am also a little shocked to hear that it actually sounds like Mrs. Laura Lindahl says that you can just shop in and out of marriage, as if it's something you can just do. In fact, I think that if you had to move from Zealand to Jutland, it would be a bigger decision such in time than it is at present in relation to a divorce. I find that deeply worrying. I also find it deeply worrying that the rapporteur can say that it can be said that buying a house and changing jobs and changing institutions can be compared to entering into and leaving marriage that it is the same. No, frankly, I mean basically, and it's our family policy that entering into a marriage is a big decision, as I also said in my opening speech, and it's also a big decision if you choose to step out of it. What is it that makes the Liberal Alliance unable to accept that we should think about it? It is not a matter of the state going in and interfering; it is just a matter of thinking.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127123900	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127123901	But basically, I believe that the difference between the Danish People's Party and the Liberal Alliance is that we in the Liberal Alliance already believe that people are thinking. We do not believe that the state needs to set in place a six-month period of reflection to ensure that people think about it. In fact, we believe that the majority, by far, the vast majority, have thought before they make the big decision, it is to get married. So we're not in favour of the state trying to protect against this, we're not in favour of sending a signal to families that we don't think they're thinking about it, because we think they are. In terms of comparing divorce with other major decisions, it was really just to say that divorce is a big decision, a tough decision, but there are just many of them in life, and we cannot, as a public authority and as a state and as politicians, shield people from big, difficult decisions that they may and may not regret later. And I don't think we should.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127124002	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127124003	No, I did not say that we should avoid divorce, and I actually said in my opening speech that we should not judge whether people choose to break up. We just think it is healthy to have this period of reflection. And so I do not agree with the premise that it is a difficult decision on the same footing as other difficult decisions. I believe that this is a very, very large and resounding decision to make, both within the boundaries of the relationship, but also if you have children in the relationship. The rapporteur says that people are thinking. Yes, hopefully they do, but we also have some figures that show that there are a lot of people who have regretted that they have applied for an immediate divorce. Could the rapporteur not try to comment on such figures? There were 3.342 who withdrew their application in 2014. Isn't that a large number?
ParlaMint-DK_20170127124054	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127124055	Yes, there are people who regret the choice they make. That's what people do every day. And I fully agree that this is a huge decision, but precisely because the divorce is such a big decision, I feel absolutely convinced that people have thought about it a great many times before they do so. The rapporteur makes it sound as if people just overnight decide. But it is not at all the case that it has been the perfect nuclear family, and then the children wake up to a situation where Mom and Dad have been divorced on the Internet at night and now do not live together anymore. It's a long process. It may not be a long process administrative in the state, but it is a long process for these people who are in it. And I am completely confident that people are considering this carefully, and I am not interested in us politicians having to think more about this, or that we politicians need to protect people from tough decisions. I am absolutely convinced that people do it themselves and that people can do it themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127124158	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127124203	Thank you. I am a little interested to hear what the Liberal Alliance's attitude to marriage as an institution really is. It's just that you can't just go online like that and get married with NemID. It takes effort. You have to apply for a marriage certificate... get a certificate of review to be sent to the wedding authority. There's actually some work in this. Should it be changed to just click in and say, as in a Facebook update, "Is now in a marriage and then you are married, and then you can enjoy the benefits of it, and then, when it is no longer opportune, you just go back and choose the status called "Sign"?" Is there not something special about marriage in the world of the Liberal Alliance that should encourage a little reflection when entering into and ending a marriage?
ParlaMint-DK_20170127124303	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127124304	Of course, the Liberal Alliance also believes that marriage is special. But we are confident that those who enter into marriage and those who want to leave marriage believe that it is just as special, just as special, as we politicians think it is. So we do not need 179 members here in the Folketing who believe that they should be judges of how important this is for the individual. I am confident that the people who enter into and leave a marriage themselves consider it important, great, and I shall not interfere with that. In fact, I do not think we should interfere in marriage in the way the rapporteur proposes.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127124347	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127124348	So if it were up to the Liberal Alliance, you could just log into the People's Register with your NemID and update your marital status for marriage, and then the other just had to log in and update and accept the request for marriage, because you have It's the ultimate streamlined society where the citizens can just do it, because they've thought about it in advance. Would this be a desirable situation with regard to the institution of marriage in the liberal eyes?
ParlaMint-DK_20170127124425	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127124426	It is clear that we in the Liberal Alliance want to make it as easy as possible for the citizens of this society to make choices. It doesn't matter if we're talking about marriage or divorce or any other choice in life. We want the individual family to have as many free opportunities as possible to make the choices that enable you as a family or an individual to live a free life. Today it is relatively easy to submit a statement, but whether to use NemID for it, I don't know, maybe. It may well be even easier. Basically, I just think that the difference between us as parties and as politicians is that we trust that these people who are entering into marriage and leaving a marriage are themselves all the reflections that the rapporteurs are anxious about not doing. We are absolutely convinced that it is because we ourselves think it is great to get married and to divorce, and we politicians do not have to interfere in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127124526	In doing so, we would like to thank the rapporteur. The next person to speak is Mr. Torsten Gejl from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127124534	Thank you. In the alternative, we are aware, like everyone else, that it is a very, very serious thing for all children if their parents are to divorce. In principle, we owe it to grown-ups to think very, very carefully about our children before suddenly, in some kind of fire, we want to press a divorce button that can trigger a quick divorce. So this is an important debate to take up. If we look at the ideological aspect, we feel that in the alternative we want to have more society and less state. This does not mean that we need to save and cut back on the state, but it means that we want to ensure that people themselves are responsible for making serious choices in their own lives and are responsible for those choices themselves. We admit that this is a special case, because it has consequences for the children. That is why I would like to take up a little bit of the Social Democracy, which would like to be a little creative now that we get into the negotiations. They suggested an alkometer that you could blow in first, so you could find out how drunk you were when it was such that you wanted to cancel a marriage. Whether it should be the solution or we should make other initiatives for the benefit of the children, we would like to share in the discussion. But they must be far, far less intrusive than what is contained in this proposal. So I think it's good that DF is raising awareness of this case, and I look forward to continuing to have the attention in the extensive negotiations on divorce law that will soon continue in the Ministry of Social Affairs. We are not voting for the proposal now, but are happy to receive this invitation from DF to bring this issue to the negotiating table at the forthcoming negotiations in the Ministry of Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127124731	Thank you. There are a few brief comments and the first is from Mrs Laura Lindahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127124735	It was actually just because the rapporteur said that we must, of course, ensure that people in some kind of fire do not just go in and make this decision. I just have to ask a little about the rapporteur's view of human beings, because does the rapporteur have the view that he believes that responsible adult people who have put children into the world who have married do not think more about such a completely revolutionary decision in their family life than just go into a fire and cancel it? I rather miss having confidence that people can think for themselves and that people take responsibility for their family, for their children and for their own life situation. I am slightly offended that it is the attitude of other people, that is, that you just think that people in a fire are going in and making such an important decision as divorce and leaving your children, that you do not think that it is really a decision that they have been thinking about for a very, very long time. Does the rapporteur really believe that this is what is going on out there?
ParlaMint-DK_20170127124846	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127124848	It may have been a bit harshly drawn up, but dear Mrs. Laura Lindahl, some people do. Well, there are some things that may be that it's not in a fireer that too quickly gets divorced. So that's what these numbers show. I fully agree that people should be responsible for their personal actions in their lives, and that is where I follow LA far along the way. If we can then find a little creative detail that gives you the opportunity to think again, I think it is interesting in relation to the children. It's so awful for many of them if their parents are getting a divorce.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127124934	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127124935	Thank you. It was nice to clarify that it was perhaps just a tightening and a sharp turn. However, just to make it quite clear: does the rapporteur think that we need politically to make sure that people think about, or does the rapporteur trust that people who are in this situation have really, really thought about themselves, and that we politicians do not have to do that for them?
ParlaMint-DK_20170127124958	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127124959	Well, we don't have it quite so simple that it's either the state that takes over people's lives, or the hundred percent have to handle it themselves. We want to see, as I said, like S, if we can find a creative trick that will give people a little more opportunity to think about. This does not seem to us to deprive people of their personal responsibility for their own lives.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127125020	The next question is Mrs Karin Nødgaard from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127125028	In fact, I was very pleased with the last clarification that came from Mr. Torsten Gejl, because that was actually one of the things I wanted to hear about. The rapporteur says, first of all, that people must be responsible for their own choices, and I am very much in agreement with the rapporteur on this. Nor do I think that our proposal in the Danish People's Party really rejects it. We are simply saying that it should no longer be possible to obtain a direct divorce without a prior separation period of 6 months. I would therefore like to hear from the rapporteur whether it would be possible to reach an agreement on a different kind of separation period, precisely to ensure that there is time for reflection.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127125100	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127125100-2	We've opened that up to as much as we can. I think we should continue those negotiations in the Ministry of Social Affairs and try to create some synergy and see if we can work something out together.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127125110	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127125112	I did not see that in the past when an example was given of what the Social Democratic Party had said. It is simply for one to want to be constructive in relation to the negotiations one enters into. Now the rapporteur also mentions the issue of children. Does not this proposal really have anything to do with the legal certainty of children if we are to read behind our words in the wording?
ParlaMint-DK_20170127125136	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127125136-2	Yeah, I guess so. That is the way it can be interpreted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127125146	In doing so, we thank the rapporteur and move forward. And this is Mrs Marianne Jelved, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127125158	Thank you. During the reign from 2011 to 2015, the Radical Left took part in the government work. Therefore, we were in government when Parliament decided in spring 2013 to abolish the requirement for a separation period for anyone who wanted a divorce. The separation period was 6 months. We do not believe that spouses just decide to get married or just decide to get divorced. These are two major events in their lives that we are talking about, and of course this is something that comes not only as lightning from a clear sky, but something that is prepared emotionally and practically etc. etc. In the case of the persons concerned. We believe that adults think before they make such big decisions. The law says today that if the spouses agree on divorce, they do not need a separation period. If, on the other hand, you do not agree, there is still a period of separation, and I think it is actually possible to think a lot about this if you or one of the parties is uncertain about the decision you are about to take. The way in which it is arranged today has helped to create the Radical Left, and we are in fact still in agreement with ourselves that this is how we think it best works. After all, the situation of children and the legal certainty of children do not depend on whether or not there is a six-month separation period. It is a whole lot of other things that are involved there. And, as previous rapporteurs have said here from the platform today, we are sitting precisely in the negotiating situation, how much we are looking for, at least that is what I hope it will end up with a very broad majority agreeing to ensure legal certainty for, among others. the children better than is the case today. So we look forward to working together on this and will contribute to giving children a better helping hand from the public before they become children of divorce. But that's another story. So we cannot support B 28, but we recognise that the Danish People's Party takes this very seriously. It is not at all that, but we just do not think that the method set out in B 28 is the right one. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127125434	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is one brief comment from Mrs Karin Nødgaard, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127125438	That was a very clear speech from the rapporteur. It says very clearly what the Radicals think about this, and I fully recognise it, and I am also looking forward, of course, to having the dialogue with the Radicals when we come to the negotiating table. Because there may well be some very interesting ideas about this, because I also know that the rapporteur has a great deal of experience in this area. However, I would like to hear something when the rapporteur mentions this here in relation to the fact that these are two major events in life, both when you enter into marriage and when you step out of it. Could we not then say that one should actually have suffered the same conditions when one has to enter into the marriage, when after all there is a period when something happens before one can enter into it and then one can resign from the marriage again? It could be a model that you could do it. It is not certain that it will then have to be a six-month separation period, but it could be another model which, after all, means that there will be some time for reflection on the decision one chooses to make.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127125532	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127125533	Well, it's gonna be a while before you get your divorce papers. In any case, there is a time-limit for the proceedings. I do not know what the processing time is today, but it is not something that happens from Saturday morning to Monday morning. In other words, it is a process time that takes place in the State Administration, and that is why it is actually possible to use that break before the divorce papers are delivered. So I think that in practice there is the small period of reflection that the rapporteur is calling for.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127125612	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127125613	I'm not quite sure Mrs. Marianne Jelved is right about that. Because we have just mentioned in our proposal and now I am reading it because everyone is probably not sitting with the suggestion that there is a lawyer from the State Administration who says that you have seen something being sent in Friday evening, and then when you come in on Monday morning, there is a new e-mail where they earnestly ask that you disregard the application that has just been submitted. And then there are some who have complained about the speedy handling of cases. That is not what we normally hear complaints about, and it is a little special, but it can actually take place and it has taken place. That is why I think it might be a good idea to consider, from a radical point of view too, that we are doing some kind of period, perhaps not six months, but then something else where we should think about after all, so it is a little like that, that we should also think about when we enter into marriage.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127125700	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127125701	We should never say that we do not need to think, as rapporteur too, so of course we are thinking further. However, there is no indication that I can see that we are changing our position on this issue. However, should we not just see what we are getting at when we talk about divorce and children's legal certainty, in the context that we are doing at the moment and where we need to find a solution together?
ParlaMint-DK_20170127125728	In doing so, we would like to thank the rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Orla Østerby, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127125737	Thank you. After all, the motion for a resolution that we have before us today deals with something on which the Conservative People's Party agrees with the Danish People's Party. The family is one of the pillars of our society. It is a community that we must safeguard. The family is the place where the primary education as a human and a citizen takes place. Basic standards and values are being created here, which will then become the building blocks of the society of which we are all part. Secondly, I would like to say that there is also education and training in the family. The sense of responsibility, respect for others, tolerance and care, the very ability to be in a community arises in the upbringing and in the daily relationship with the loved ones. That is why the family is very, very important in Danish society, and for the Conservative People's Party it is a matter of priority to create a good framework for family life. Well-functioning families are the basis of a well-functioning society. So these are the building blocks on which we stand. I read an article here recently about a businessman who had created something in life, also in the field of work, and he was asked what footsteps he had set and for which he would like to be remembered. His answer was that the only footprint that remained and would be remembered was in his family, for they would remember it, and then, of course, the genetic. That's where we're in this. That is why, in the case of divorce, it is crucial that it is the right decision to make. Marriage is a contract between two parties that commit to each other. Some will then have to choose to break that contract with each other, that is how things can work out, and that is why we are discussing this today. And when that happens, there are three elements that are important: that you reflect on your decision and not just make a husa decision, that any children do not get caught, which is actually the most important thing in this, and that when you break a contract, you cannot enter into a new one just afterwards. A period of reflection is needed. That is why we in the Conservative People's Party believe that re-establishing the separation period could be an option. That is also why we voted against the proposal in 2013. We were against the introduction of an immediate divorce. Now the Conservative People's Party sits in government, and when you sit in government, there are compromises. We, as a party, have not changed our family and divorce policies, which are on today's agenda, but we also feel as a party that, when we go into government, we are loyal. And it is not government policy that immediate divorce should be abolished. That is why we cannot vote in favour of the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127130120	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are two brief comments, and the first is Mrs Karin Nødgaard, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127130125	I am so sorry for the last sentence that the rapporteur made, because I really had hoped that the rapporteur had said that Conservatives could actually vote in favour of this proposal, or at least something very similar. I could then understand here in the end that you will not. What I really want to hear about is: now that I am dealing with the family policy of the Conservative People's Party, which I have come up with, and see how much the family means as an institution; the family as a foundation; the core of society is one of the terms used, I cannot understand why, when you are part of a government, it is so important that it is in a government basis that families can be guaranteed proper conditions in relation to this. After all, we are talking about education, education, two parties who are committed to each other. You do that when you go into marriage, but also when you get out of marriage. So I think it might actually sound a little hollow in relation to everything that has been written down and what has been said in the past by the Conservatives when you cannot support such a proposal as this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127130227	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127130228	Thank you. First of all, I would like to say that when you are working on a government basis, it is not the case that all the parties do not have the three parties that were sitting and making the current government basis for them to be able to have their special cases included. It's not like that when you're in government. Mrs Karin Nødgaard: It is the case with the Conservatives that we are, of course, loyal and that we are some people to be trusted when we go into government. This means that we are making compromises. I know that the Danish People's Party does not have to do this because it has not chosen to go in and commit itself to a government basis. That is what the Conservative People's Party has chosen to do, which is why we have also chosen to say that the party's policy, which I have told you about here, is still the same, but that we are making compromises. We all do that in this thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127130333	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127130334	Then I just have a very brief question, because of course I recognise that you want to be loyal once you have created the government basis. But why has it not been made by the conservatives as a requirement, since these discussions on a government basis included it being part of the basis, because this area means so much to the Conservatives?
ParlaMint-DK_20170127130354	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127130355	Thank you. I didn't sit at Marienborg, but I'm sure the discussions have been there. And it is the case that compromises are reached in many, many different areas. After all, the government base is not only on three sides, so in the work that has been done we have had to give priority, and we also have that from the conservative side. And then I should like to inform the rapporteur that the Conservatives, in all modesty, sat with six mandates in the government negotiations and that there were some who had some more. We have, of course, put the imprint on the government base that we think the Conservative People's Party deserves. But exactly this didn't come with me. Then I would like to inform you that the number of divorce applications in 2016 was 21.803 against 23.246 the year before. So I can comfort myself with the fact that it hasn't gotten any worse.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127130458	Sir. Jeppe Jakobsen, Dansk Folkeparti, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127130503	Thank you. The rapporteur mentions that the Conservative People's Party is indeed represented with only six seats in the Folketing. But the Left, who also voted against the original bill to introduce the immediate divorces, has 35 seats in the Parliamentary Assembly. Without having to pull out the big ball frame, then there is a majority in the government who voted against the immediate divorces when they were introduced. I recognise, of course, that compromises have to be reached, but now that, as a conservative, we recognise the family as the core of society, how can we get ourselves to deal with a minority in the government in such an essential area as family policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20170127130558	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127130559	Thank you. It is the case that family policy among us is much more than immediate divorce, and in the programme of the Conservative People's Party, family policy is a major part of it, and we attach great importance to it. It is not the case that every section of our party programme contains something about immediate divorce. So I just have to point out that this is, of course, a point that the Conservative People's Party is aware of. But we must recognise that it did not come up with a point in the negotiations on the government base, and it is so that we agree that we do not go out with new legislative proposals in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127130645	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127130647	But I assume that when the Conservative People's Party has now received the ministerial post that has this as a resort, it is something that really matters to the Conservative People's Party. This has also been seen from the points put forward by the new minister in relation to the desire to save marriage, that is to say, to do something to avoid divorces. If this really is such a major conservative issue, why has it not been more concerned with countering the liberal part of the government and in standing for the bourgeois, where the value of marriage is greater?
ParlaMint-DK_20170127130727	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127130730	We are, of course, conservative in the Conservative People's Party for good reason, and that means, of course, that the family is the foundation stone, and I have also said that in my rapporteur's speech. When you sit and help create a government base, there are hundreds of good demands and things you want into the government base. It was not possible to get into the government basis we have between the three parties. And so it is that you bow down in the community, and so does the Conservative People's Party. After all, Denmark must be ruled, there must be a government basis, but that does not mean that our family policy in the Conservative People's Party disappears because immediately divorce is introduced. I would also like to say that we are facing a new era around this, as all the rapporteurs have said, with regard to new negotiations, and I am confident that we have a conservative minister at the end of the table.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127130829	In doing so, we would like to thank the rapporteur. And then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Karin Nødgaard, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127130836	Thank you. I've prepared a little other speech. Recently I actually heard a very wise woman make a speech where she touched on many people's desires for the perfect life and how we all more or less yearn for the perfect. Sometimes we give up something because we don't dare jump into deeper water. We can actually opt out of love to avoid the hard feelings associated with love. We don't want to be vulnerable. We are thus giving up because we dare not move out there where it can be deep and hard to bottom. When I heard that a few weeks ago, I was thinking about this resolution which we are now debating today. And why did I do that? I did, because marriage is precisely the institution where we jump into deeper water, where we choose love and where we show emotion and can become vulnerable. A very beautiful decision is when two people choose marriage. Hopefully, this is something that will last for good and for good, but realistically we also know that this will not be the case for everyone. But before the big and very pervasive decision is taken, the Danish People's Party believes it is important to consider it very carefully and also to focus on the fact that it can subsequently lead a life with it, which is so undesirable that it is best to divorce with the consequences that the decision must lead to for those it also involves. And here I am, of course, thinking a lot about the children who must be in a marriage. I am not the one who should judge the reasons or reasons which a couple arrive at after a period of reflection, but I think that period will be good for the parties involved. I have, of course, taken note of the comments and views of the parties on the Danish People's Party's proposals, and I can also conclude that there is a very, very large difference in how we perceive the institution of marriage and also the way in which marriage would like to be in the future, our whole way of building our society in relation to family life, and I am actually a little concerned about some of the reports that have come from some of the parties, about how the future will look to family life and about marriage as an institution. I have heard that many have mentioned something about the negotiations to be opened. The Danish People's Party participates in them, and it is very important for us that we also get some of the things that matter to us. I must be honest and say that when I look around the Chamber right now, it is deeply, deeply worrying, so few people really have an interest in this debate. I think it is interesting that some of the parties do not show up, that some choose just to give their rapporteur's speech and leave the Chamber. When you have some things that matter a lot, and our resolution generally does, when the parties put them forward and have a good debate on them, I think it is indeed a duty for each other to take part in that debate. That is why I cannot really go in now and comment on the speeches made by the various rapporteurs, perhaps not by the Minister either, because perhaps the Minister was not paying attention all the time, but I would say that we are looking forward to the discussions that we will hopefully be taking place before too long in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127131216	There is one thing for a brief comment, and that is Mrs Laura Lindahl, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127131223	Thank you. I have, of course, explained very well my own view of our position and had the opportunity to have a good debate with the rapporteur for the authors of the proposals. I would just like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for having tabled this proposal, although I could not disagree more with their intentions. But what the rapporteur says is quite right: it is a really important debate. For it is not so much sobering about whether to pass a law or not; it is for me to see a general discussion of marriage, but also of what the public task is and what the public task is not. This is a debate that is very important to us in the Liberal Alliance. What is private life, and when should the state enter, and when should politicians interfere? I think this is an important debate. I recognise that it is really, really sad to stand here and see that most of the parties are not present. It is only the Conservative People's Party, the Minister, the Danish People's Party itself, and so also the Liberal Alliance which is here now, and that is a pity, because it is a hugely important debate for the public, for the citizens of Denmark and for our society as a whole. So I would just like to thank the rapporteurs for making this proposal at all and taking the debate. It's important. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127131338	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127131339	I am very pleased to hear the rapporteur of the Liberal Alliance, Mrs Laura Lindahl, just acknowledge that it is important that we have these debates, and that is, whatever our position is. For the Danish People's Party, this is actually a value debate, and we are happy to take them. We took one the other day, we take one today, and we keep going, and we keep going.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127131401	There are no more brief comments, and so we thank the rapporteur. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the motion for a resolution be referred to the Social Affairs Committee. Are there any objections? There is not, and then it has been adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170127131420	There is therefore nothing more to be done in this sitting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday 31 January 2017, at 3 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda which will appear on the Danish Parliament's website and will also refer to the weekly schedule, which is also shown on the Danish Parliament's website.
