ParlaMint-DK_20171114130013	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Business (Brian Mikkelsen): Bill no. L 86 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Planning. Bill No. L 87 (Proposal for a law amending the law on storms and storms. Employment Minister (Troels Lund Poulsen): Bill No. L 88 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Unemployment Insurance, etc.) Bill No. L 89 (Proposal for a law on the cash and tax-free payment of pre-retirement and flexitime contributions) and Bill No. L 90 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on sickness benefits. Kim Christiansen (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 31 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution that citizens should not wear headgear on their driving licence photography for religious reasons). Bent Bøgsted (DF) and others: Question No. F 11 (What initiatives will the Minister take to prevent sick citizens from being placed in a long-term process of resource development as a result of the reform of early retirement and flexible jobs of 1 January 2013?). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Minister for Transport, Building and Housing has informed me that he wishes to withdraw the following bill: Draft law amending the law on general housing, etc. L 62). Does anyone wish to include this bill? As this is not the case, the draft law has lapsed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114130150	The debate is open. Sir. Orla Hav, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114130211	L 76 is about a structure for the University of People. I would like to say at the outset that this is a good idea and that we in the Socialist Group are positive about changing the organizational conditions around the University of the People's Republic. The university of the people represents a strong and good element in our society, which aims to contribute to greater understanding of the things that are going on in our society. That is good, and it is true, and it is good that we have an instrument for this. It is therefore a good thing that the Minister is now making a proposal in which we change the organisational structures a little. The university has many strengths and is widely represented in the country by committed people. We acknowledge that the organizational structure has needed a service service and with five departments and a number of voluntary committees we still ensure a geographical spread across the country. I must say, however, that in the work of the committee we will take a little interest in the idea contained in the proposal, namely that every three years the committees have the right to choose association with the department. Our concern is whether, with such a model, we ensure that everyone gets the most involved in the work in order to create the best possible folk university in the local area they now represent, or whether there is a risk that there are some people who, like a watchman, say: "Oh, we are not entirely satisfied with them, so we would rather bet on coming somewhere else next time we have to choose. We shall be a little interested in this in the work of the committee. We also note that in one of the answers to the consultation there is a promise of indexing, in relation to whether the People's University makes room for the information associations, which do not have exactly the same strength for their activities, and there must of course be a sensible division of the work that exists between the activities of public education and the university of the people. So we will be interested in that a little bit. But we are positive about L 76 and will back it up.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114130439	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114130445	Thank you, President. The Danish People's Party is also positive about the bill and would also like to thank the government for putting it into effect. After all, the people's universities are providing research to the citizens, and that is why it is important that we have this simplification of the structure so that it becomes more decentralized and less bureaucratic, and that is what the draft law is proposing. That's great. The aim is also to strengthen voluntary work, which is an important part of folk universities. I fully agree with Mr Beazley on that point. Orla Hav. And then the change takes place on the basis of criticism from the National Audit Office for an extremely complicated structure and subsequently because of the report on the public universities from 2017. Let me briefly outline what the structure is today. At the top you have a folk university board. Under this there is a committee board and four regional boards which formally direct the four departments of university towns, i.e.: Aalborg, Aarhus, Odense and Copenhagen. The university departments also have their own independent departmental boards. In addition, a number of voluntary local committees choose whether they will be affiliated to one of the four regional units or the committee board, which is a unit of the committees. There are 84 committees all over the country. If anyone listens to this and doesn't understand any of it, I understand. I've looked at the organisational chart in the bill, and that says everything. It's a complete Kafka structure. So how will it be in the future? Yes, the People's University Board and the Regional Councils are being closed down. In future, there will be five units that are self-owned institutions and they will be located at the universities of Aalborg, Aarhus, Odense and Copenhagen, as well as the committee board. The Ministry of Culture supervises, the local committees continue because they ensure local anchoring. This is, of course, a much easier way to manage this, and of course we are pleased with a dispute with the paperwork and a complicated structure for the dissemination of research to the citizens. That is what is the raison d'être of the folk universities. We can support the bill and look forward to further consideration.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114130716	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Britt Bager, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114130723	As you know, the draft law here is a response to the recommendations of the Working Party on the Structure of the University of Nations. The recommendations were presented a few months ago and the intention is that they should help to make the structure of the University of Nations more up-to-date and appropriate, so that the aim, namely to disseminate public information to all parts of the country, is supported in the best possible way. Today, the university of the people is an important element in the dissemination of knowledge to the Danes. We must support that from the political point of view, just as we do with this bill. I will refrain from deepening the specific content of the draft law, since the rapporteurs are already familiar with both that and the recommendations of the working group's report. Instead, I would just like to emphasise that the Left can fully support the purpose of this bill, namely to change the structure of the University of People, so that it helps to support the aims of the institutions to a much greater extent. We support the proposal, and I was told by the Conservative People's Party that they also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114130842	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114130852	As several rapporteurs have already mentioned, the structure of the public universities is not exactly very transparent. I believe that the Minister in his remarks uses the word choice relatively complex, and that is certainly not an exaggeration. That is why we fully agree with the attempt to establish a more simple and decentralized structure, and that is what the working group, after thorough preparatory work, has put forward a proposal for, and that is essentially the proposal which the Minister then passes on and which we are discussing here today. It is also the case that the majority of the answers to the consultation are practically all but one, positive towards this structure, and we can also fully support the ideas behind the proposal. Like the Socialist rapporteur, we have noted that a single information society, the AOF, has a concern about the demarcation between the programmes offered by the public universities and the programme offerings which are more traditional to the evening schools, and we think that we should look at this in the context of the work of the committee, just as we will probably not avoid looking at the rules of travel. But that does not change the fact that, overall, we are positive about the proposal before us. I should also like to welcome the rapporteur from the SF, who is on his way to Ireland to carry out his role as rapporteur for sport policy, and to say that the SF can also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114131045	Thank you. Sir. Leif Mikkelsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114131051	Thank you. This is a corner of the whole People's Education Act, which is a large and broad law on public awareness activities in Denmark. But this is actually an important little corner. I would just like to read four lines which describe the purpose: the Danish National University of Denmark aims to disseminate knowledge of the methods and results of research and to promote the understanding of democracy and active citizenship through public education and lecture activities. It is, in fact, an extremely important purpose. Fortunately, we are not discussing the content of the law here. That is not what we are changing, we are sticking to it, and that is why we are simply talking about decentralization and debureaucratisation. Therefore, there is much to suggest that it can sort out the whole of the Danish Parliament for such simplification, and therefore it is quite easy to simply note that the Liberal Alliance can of course support the proposal, because the purpose is good for decentralisation and debureaucratisation. It is, in fact, out of the policy of the Liberal Alliance, so we warmly support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114131201	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114131210	Thank you for the floor. I am filling in today for the alternative rapporteur, Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier. The alternative would like to take this opportunity to praise the government for the process of drafting the law. We believe that this is a fine way of making policy, namely to set up a working group and then to listen to the proposals made by the working group. We are aware of the concerns about the new allocation system • whether the allocation scale is inappropriate and we will wait and see if the concerns are justified when the new law comes into force. We are pleased that transport refunds are maintained, as this is fundamental for the continuation of folk universities in the outermost regions of the country. We welcome the simplification and decentralization of folk universities so that folk universities can concentrate on their core task of disseminating research-based knowledge and research methods to as much of the population as possible. In the alternative, we pay tribute to freedom, and we welcome the increased freedom granted to folk universities by this proposal. We think it is positive that the committees with the proposal will be free to choose which department they wish to join. So in the alternative, we would like to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114131326	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs. Zenia Stampe, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114131335	Thank you. I have just returned from the United States, where I was a UN delegate, and how nice it is to come home to such a matter here where there is such a broad consensus when one comes from such a polarised society and a polarised political debate. I know the waves may also go high municipal, but how nice it is that we in the Folketing can still be so touchingly agreed on something like this, which is really important and which is about bringing knowledge to the citizens, and at a time when we are talking fake news etc. And so it is fantastic to be able to return to a society and a government of the people, where there is broad agreement on something so fundamentally important that one cannot therefore take for granted throughout the world. We also support the proposal. It is a response to the recommendations of this working group and we are pleased that the recommendations have been followed and we are also pleased that the consultation answers are so positive and, of course, we can also support the principles of decentralization and simplification of a rather complicated structure today. So this is support for the proposal from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114131445	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Culture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114131456	Thank you for the floor, and thank you very much for the support of the rapporteurs on this proposal. The university of the people is, after all, an integral part of public education, and I am very pleased, as several other rapporteurs have said, that this is actually something that we are jointly defending in Denmark, because it is, like the promise of ordinary political debate, that this is something that we know is really important. It is part of Danish civil society, and I think it is quite unique in the world that we have such a thing as a People's University. Often universities are something that contains huge amounts of knowledge, but where it can be really, really difficult for civil society to be allowed to look inside the walls and take part in and taste some of the amount of knowledge that exists within universities. So it is very good that our people also have an opportunity through the University of Nations to learn more about what is actually happening in the world of research. So it is true, as many have said, that this is not a question of changing the purpose of the FolkeUniversity, it is very good, and it has unfolded, I think, in a fantastic way over the years we have had a FolkeUniversity in Denmark. So it's all about how the FolkeUniversity is organized. I think it has also been a good process. It is now the case that if you involve citizens when there is something that needs to be changed, it is good to ask some of those who actually know something about how it works and what trip wires there are so that you can do it even better. So that is why, in spring 2017, we set up a working group consisting of the actors in the field, and they were then given the task of making recommendations for a new structure. And on the basis of precisely those recommendations, we have now made a proposal for amendment of the law and also a draft new decree, and that is the bill that is now being tabled in the Folketing. I do not think I need to go into exactly what it is, because it has, among other things. Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen has been carefully explained, but the point is that the four current departments in Aalborg, Aarhus, Copenhagen and Odense carry out the tasks, and then there is a committee system that makes it possible to get out into every corner of the country, and that in future the state subsidy will then be distributed once a year to the five units that are out there. It is my hope that with this new organisation we can create an even better framework for even more citizens in the country to gain insight into what is going on in the world of research. I would just like to make a few comments on some of the comments made by the rapporteurs. Sir. Orla Hav from the Social Democratic Party said that during the committee process you might want to discuss this a little more with an opportunity to choose the department out there. To this I would just like to say that, as a Liberal, I agree with the old Greeks who are saying that a healthy competition can actually be very good for everyone to lift up on their toes as well as possible. But, of course, I am happy to listen to any arguments. I think that the fact that you have the opportunity out there to choose for yourself what kind of department you want to be attached to is actually a really, really good idea, and that is something of the work that has been done. But if there are arguments we have overlooked, I am of course sensitive to them. Sir. Søren Søndergaard of Enhedslisten points out that in one of the consultations it has been pointed out that there may be a problem in the demarcation of the work distribution between the National Education Associations and the University of the People. I think that is quite right, in other words that it may sometimes be difficult to see whether it is in one place or another, but I really do not think it is doing anything, because from a citizen's point of view, what is crucial is that we get access, and not so much whether it is a public education association, or whether it is a section of the University of People who offers one or the other. So I do not see the big problem in it, but again, there should be something we have missed, so let us get it on the table during the committee procedure. So thank you for the broad support. I think it says something very good about our small country that we agree that, in such a way, public education is a very clear prerequisite for us to have an authoritative people who can take responsibility for themselves, even with the differences that might otherwise exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114131934	This is a fantastic positive start for a new week and a Tuesday. No one else has asked to speak and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Culture and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It is so agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114131955	The debate is open, and it is the Minister for Culture first.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114132022	Thank you for the floor. The purpose of the resolution here is to establish a special state aid scheme to finance artistic and cultural experiences for citizens, for example. nursing homes, nursing centres, hospices, hospitals and other treatment institutions and settlements. I should like to begin by saying as a minister that I fully share the intention of having access to artistic and cultural experiences. That is something every citizen must have access to, no matter where they are in life and what their life situation is. However, I do not see a government task in making a special pool around these conditions. It is therefore primarily the municipalities and the regions themselves that must take responsibility. They're the ones who give priority to organising this type of activity in their institutions. In other words, it is also completely out of the hands of management outside the institutions if it is considered appropriate to give priority to these kinds of tasks. The proposal also provides for the aid scheme to be set up under the auspices of the Danish Arts Foundation, and I would just like to inform you that it is in fact the case that support schemes already exist in the State Arts Fund, which the institutions concerned can apply for very specific tasks. You can, for example. seek support for author events out there. Support for artistic decorations can be sought, and the institutions also have an opportunity to borrow works of art through the art fund's lending system. The resolution also mentions such things as common singing and dancing for the elderly with dementia as an example of artistic and cultural experiences that could be supported. The proposal also provides for more cooperation between professional artists and individual institutions. I would like to say that I would very much like both municipalities and regions to undertake to establish such cooperation with the artists, but I would also like to note that professional artists do not necessarily have to be engaged to implement, for example. a song evening, and fortunately this is already taking place to a large extent. It can be nice to engage professional artists who can do something very special, and it can be a very special experience, but just singing together is something that delights a lot of people. Art and culture can undoubtedly make a positive contribution in many areas. We have some experience that is being picked up around the ongoing project •Culture on Recept • which runs under the auspices of the Danish Health Authority and it runs up to and including 2019. I am quite sure that it will give us really useful knowledge in relation to the impact of cultural experiences on different groups of vulnerable citizens, and I look forward, of course, to hearing what you have actually gained from this. I look forward to getting a knowledge base so that we can continue to work, also with these thoughts on how it is that we can get more of that kind of events around us, but until then I hope that the municipalities and regions themselves will assume responsibility and also in the individual institutions will make arrangements where you cooperate with art and culture exactly in the way that may be relevant to each institution. As I said, I do not see it immediately as a state task, and the government cannot therefore support the proposal put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114132402	Sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114132406	Thank you and thank you for your reply. Just one thing: I just want to be absolutely sure that the Minister has noticed that this is an experimental scheme, because one of the ideas here is precisely to collect some information. The minister says it's already happening. Yes, it happens unevenly, and it happens in some municipalities, and it does not happen in other municipalities etc. I would like to know whether the Minister will then take the initiative to collect the information that is available, because the whole idea of this is to have some experience on which we can build.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114132438	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114132439	Yeah, but I think we should try to think about under what circumstances it should take place. Well, now we've got Culture on Recept... that you're working with at the moment. We will get an evaluation of this in 2019. On the issue of layering, I would say that if things are already collected in a way so that we can also use them when we discuss these things, then I think we should perhaps use the forces and resources differently from starting a special course in the Ministry of Culture when something else is going on in advance. So the gathering of knowledge seems to me to be fine, and that is why I am suggesting that we wait and see what comes out of the evaluation of the project "Culture on Recept" that is currently running, because these are some of the same things. So, what effect can art and culture have in relation to particularly vulnerable groups in our society?
ParlaMint-DK_20171114132529	Thank you, Minister. Then we start with the rapporteur's series. Sir. Orla Sea, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114132545	I would like to say that I think it is sympathetic that the proposal will help to give people good experiences, including good cultural experiences. The problem with the proposal from the Enhedslisten is, of course, that it is already very much happening today, and we have to say that we have settled in the entire institutional system that we have, thereby helping to ensure that residents or those associated with the institutions have opportunities to have cultural experiences linked to the functioning of the institutions. It is an integral part of the everyday life of institutions for the elderly and others with special needs. It is to the delight of the residents, and it is to the delight of the relatives, neighbours, staff, etc. The proposal is further that a pool of 10.9 million be set aside. kr. administered by the Danish Arts Foundation. I just have to ask the rhetorical question: will Danish institutions then have to apply for the Danish Arts Foundation? And then should it deal with all applications and assess and rank them, refuse and make commitments? My concern is that a fairly large part of the pool is eaten up by the administration of the scheme. In addition to that, I add to that at my own expense and risk that the experience gained from other grants from the Danish Arts Foundation is that they have a quite difficult road outside Valby Bakke. More than 50%. of the funds are used within Valby Bakke or by artists living here. Who will then judge whether a cultural feature is worthwhile? The minister mentioned it a little bit too. Is popular music, that is, the music that lots of us listen to or still dance to? Does Danish top music, which a large part of the population like to hum with? All these quality discussions should be decentralized within and within the institutions. This is the only way to achieve the taste of the citizens. Finally, there is funding. I can see that the money will be taken from certain purposes for which it has already been committed. This is a bit like wanting to spend money already spent on a vacation to finance new experiences. As I said, the idea of the resolution is positive, but the approach does not seem to us to be appropriate to the present. The time has elapsed from that kind of centralisation and one size fits all, so the Social Democrats cannot support the resolution. However, we would like to support collecting information on how and how to ensure that as broad groups as possible have good experiences, and also good experiences with culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114132854	Thank you to the rapporteur. There's a comment from Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114132859	No, it's a question. And the reason why I am going to ask a question is that I want to know whether what the Socialist rapporteur said about the State Arts Foundation will also have consequences for the house artists scheme. Because I guess there are also institutions looking for the State Arts Foundation. Well, the house artists' scheme exists... it's a well-known concept. This is nothing new, it is something that already exists. So was there, in fact, behind what the Socialist rapporteur said, a proposal that it is social democratic policy to abolish the house artists' scheme?
ParlaMint-DK_20171114132935	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114132936	No, there wasn't, and Mr. Knox knows that. Søren Søndergaard also well, for I put in a distance marker, where I said that I added on my own account that my experience with the Danish Arts Foundation's funds is that they have quite a problem finding their way outside Valby Bakke, and I am deeply critical of that. It is not certain that I share that view with everyone in my party, and then I must try to defend that view.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114133000	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114133001	So I cannot help asking: is it to be understood that the rapporteur is in favour of abolishing the house artists' scheme?
ParlaMint-DK_20171114133007	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114133008	No, I don't. I said no to the fact that I am going to abolish the House Artist scheme in the first reply I gave to Mr. Søren Søndergaard. And then I dedicate sir. Søren Søndergaard in that we in the Social Democratic Party have good discussions about what it is that we get the most quality for the money knows and how to organise it as best we can. And, of course, we are open to discussing that. But we're not throwing out anything that works.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114133031	Then there is a comment from Mrs Zenia Stampe, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114133035	It was because Mr. Orla Hav said that this is something that is to a large extent already going on in social institutions and nursing homes, hospices and hospitals etc. and so on, and that is something that we already have the opportunity to do today. So I ask in total ignorance because I have not been a cultural rapporteur for that long, nor have I been in a municipality or region: is the rapporteur aware of the arrangements that can be applied today, so that the inhabitants of these various institutions can get in close contact with an artist? I am certainly not aware of that, but I would like to be informed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114133114	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114133116	The reality in the institutional world that I know about is that money has been set aside in the institutions' budgets for events, activities in which experiences of an artistic and cultural nature can also be included, but there can also be a wide range of much wider experiences. And that's why I took it with the Danish top, and what you're singing and dancing to. It's also included, so there's a wide palette. What matters to me is that as far as possible the interests of the residents of the specific institutions are affected. In addition, I know that for a number of institutions there has been an opportunity to go out to concerts and festivals and other things where you get an experience. That's another way of managing it. So it is important that we hit what is relevant to the group that needs a little, we should say encouragement in everyday life, as do all of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114133220	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114133222	I got it that way, sir. Orla Sea is not aware of any other arrangements either. That means, of course, that the meeting that you would like between art and these people is something that you have to finance from the welfare budget. I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur is not able to see that, in a hard-pressed reality, where the appropriations are falling and where you find it difficult to get enough warm hands, it may be difficult to argue that you would have to pay an artist to put a job for a few months or six months instead of hiring an extra nursing home worker. Can the rapporteur not see that it is a really difficult priority to face if you are sitting out there in a municipal council?
ParlaMint-DK_20171114133316	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114133317	Yes, but nevertheless it is the municipal priority task: we must ensure that there is a quality of content in the institutions we run and that we have to discuss it. I myself have been involved in the administration of arrangements for applying for funds, and these were quite well-functioning arrangements. But they were regionally founded, and it was called something with an artist at the quarter price, and thus you had something that tasted like this. There was some joy in it, no doubt about it, but it is a priority task, and it is indeed the municipalities that have asked for that priority task, and then it is their job to do it ashore. Because, of course, citizens must have good cultural experiences.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114133401	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then the next rapporteur is Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114133408	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to thank Enhedslisten for taking an interest in the well-being of the elderly in this municipal election campaign. Thank you. It is a sympathetic and appealing proposal. There are, however, some things that we need to sort out before we can really deal with it. When I read the proposal, I remembered the alternative proposal during the 2015 election campaign on culture on prescription, which was inspired by a scheme in Sweden. And there the Danish People's Party promised that after the elections we would bring it to the Committee on Health and the Committee on Culture. We kept that promise, and that is why we now have an experimental system on culture on prescription. I have participated in a large number of debates, among others. at the People's Meeting on culture on prescription and culture's impact after a longer period of illness. And it's being researched. It is not quite clear yet, but there are indications that some people are benefiting from this. So it is well seen by Enhedslisten to take this up and connect culture and the well-being of the elderly. However, we are not sure that it might be the smartest thing to put it into the Danish Arts Foundation. Sir. Orla Hav himself has mentioned the popular culture, and the Danish Arts Foundation does not exactly have a reputation for strengthening popular culture, rather the opposite. Sir. Orla Hav has also mentioned that it is often better for the individual institutions to carry out such things themselves, and they do so to a great extent. In my own municipality, Odense, it has been done for years with great success, where there are song evenings, where there are music evenings and where there is dance. You also often take older people out for events. It is a huge success, and the elderly are having fun, enjoying themselves and well. I'm not sure the State Arts Foundation has that angle, and I don't think that's what might ultimately be Enhedslisten's business either. For Enhedslisten also wants to strengthen the artists' living conditions, and then they may have seen an opportunity to do so here. So it goes in both directions. The second thing we need to get to grips with is funding. We can't really do that. We will not be helping to cancel the reduction in the housing and gift tax on the generational change of businesses. We actually think that's a good thing. So that's not gonna work out, I'm gonna say to Mr. Knox. Søren Søndergaard. Then we would probably prefer to talk about things in committee, because we need to get an overview of what it looks like in the municipalities. My impression is, as both the Minister and Mr. Orla Hav has said that this is happening in a lot of places. What we also need to find out is whether the municipalities would like to help us put it into the State Arts Foundation, or whether they would rather have a pool, or whether they would rather refrain from interfering in this, because it is a local municipal task for the individual institutions. But, as a starting point, we think it is a sympathetic proposal. We acknowledge Enhedslisten's interest in the welfare of the elderly, which we also have in the Danish People's Party, and this is in line with what we have been working on over the past few years, for example. The alternative is to examine whether culture can have a good impact on people's well-being following a course of illness or in other contexts. So with these words we will really just look forward to the committee reading and we look forward, of course, to the cooperation with Mr Beyer de Ryke. Søren Søndergaard and Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114133757	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. Mrs. Britt Baker, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114133805	With the motion for a resolution here, the proposers are instructing the government to draw up a proposal for an artistic and cultural experience scheme for weak, socially disadvantaged and ill citizens, in other words citizens of, for example: nursing homes, hospitals and settlements. The proposal is basically intended to strengthen the access of these groups to cultural experiences. I think that is an entirely sympathetic intention. Art experiences can be many things and can mean different things to each of us. But common to cultural and art experiences is that they have a positive influence on, among other things. our mood and mental well-being. Culture, like other things, can make us laugh, reflect, and bond. Therefore, culture in my optics can also help to increase our quality of life and create a contact that is otherwise not possible, for example. for demented. Although the Left sympathises with the intention behind this proposal, there are still two main reasons why we do not support it. Firstly, we believe that it is already possible today to offer cultural experiences to the target group of the proposal, and we also see that more municipalities do so, among other things. in the municipality of Syddjur, which is the area in which I am elected. Here you offer music therapy to demente. It is also offered in the City of Copenhagen. Here the nursing homes can hold concerts at the municipality's expense. Both are initiatives which I have the clear impression that both citizens, institutions and municipalities are happy about. Then there is another reason why we cannot support the Enhedslisten proposal here, and that is the funding. The financing is intended to cancel the reduction of the estate and inheritance tax in the event of a generational change of commercial enterprises implemented by the Finance Act of 2017. We in the Left cannot support that in any way. In conclusion, I would like to stress that I am constantly following the opportunities that exist in spreading cultural experiences to, for example, the European Union. sick and elderly citizens. That is why I am also particularly pleased that last year we allocated the rate pool funds for the trial scheme "Culture on Recept·, which focuses precisely on a group of elderly and sick citizens, more specifically on the impact of cultural activities in the course of treatment for citizens who are long-term sick with depression, anxiety and stress. I look forward to the evaluation of the experimental scheme and to seeing whether cultural activities can have a beneficial effect on the courses of treatment I have just mentioned. I repeat, for the sake of good order, that we in the Left do not support this proposal for the two reasons I have just mentioned, and I must inform the Conservative People's Party that they do not support the proposal either.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114134116	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Leif Mikkelsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114134126	Thank you. Thanks to Enhedslisten for throwing light on an important issue. I have had close family members in institutions over the last few years and have been able to welcome the fact that there are in fact a great many cultural initiatives taking place in these institutions, which the institutions themselves are taking the initiative or which the municipality is taking the initiative on. And there is actually cause for rejoicing. This proposal has to be seen in the light of the fact that perhaps more can be done. That is why it is really a good signal to send out, even during a period of local and regional elections, that it is actually a responsibility that lies out there close to the citizens and not a central pool, as is actually proposed here. But in doing so we have the opportunity here to stress the importance of the fact that we are actually thinking in these ways which enrich the lives of those people who have special needs and who may be in a particularly difficult situation or have a particularly difficult location. It is very good to use cultural experiences of many different species. These are both amateur cultural experiences and professional cultural experiences. And you can feel, when you are in those institutions and participate in it yourself, that it delights and excites and simply raises the quality of life. So it's really good to pay attention to this area. I would just like to emphasise that there is no doubt about where the responsibility for this should lie, in other words, where people are, close to them. They're the ones who have the day-to-day responsibility to spice up life with these actions. With these words, of course, I can stress that the Liberal Alliance does not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114134311	Thank you, sir. Leif Mikkelsen as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. Sir. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114134319	I am filling in today for our cultural rapporteur, Rasmus Nordqvist. That art and culture can be used much more actively in society, we have no doubt in the alternative. For this reason, we have worked on the Alternative's side to ensure that the Culture of the Receptor is widespread and hopes that the trial period under way will provide opportunities for dissemination to the benefit of many others. The proposal from the Enhedslisten that we are debating here goes a little in the same direction, as it strengthens the possibility that particularly weak, socially burdened and/or sick people can have the joy of meeting the art where they are. As the proposers write, it can be seen as an extension of the house artists' scheme, but where the house artists' scheme is today aimed at children and young people, these are other target groups. It is not a new idea for us in the alternative that the system of house artists can be extended in this way. We ourselves have a proposal, which we presented at the beginning of October, to extend it to the benefit of the whole of society, which means that both public and private institutions and companies must be able to apply for it and it does not matter whether children, young people, adults or the elderly are the focus and target group. We see it as a way of strengthening the arts and culture throughout the country and creating the basis for professional artists to work throughout the country. We know today that the system makes a huge difference to a very small budget, and it is therefore natural to look at how we can exploit the good results to the benefit of more. Of course, the fact that we would like to see the system even more widespread should not stand in the way of our being able to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114134504	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs. Zenia Stampe, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114134514	Radicals can support the motion for a resolution. We have just discussed this in our group and there was a lot of support for it and also a lot of commitment on this proposal. There are several reasons for this. First of all, as the proposers also state, there is very good experience of using art and culture to raise the quality of life for some of our most vulnerable citizens, such as the United Kingdom. sick and dying etc. That is, of course, the main argument. Then there is the equality argument, and that is a little more general. Some people are a little unhappy about the art fund, because what kind of elitist thing is that? But is it elitist to send the artists to nursing homes, hospitals and hospices to show some of what is the very best in Danish culture? I don't think that's very elitist. On the contrary, I think that there is a very strong prospect of equality in giving the very weakest citizens of society the opportunity to meet some of the finest art that is being done. In addition, there is an argument which, of course, is about the artists, and I do not think that is a covert argument, that is to say that one would also like to make sure that they have a basis for life. After all, this is an ongoing discussion which we have here in the Chamber, and which I actually see is that the Danish People's Party is concerned about, in other words, how to ensure that our artists can actually earn a living and maintain a basis for life. It can therefore be very difficult to make good money as an artist; there you have to be a very popular pop- or rock musician or actor etc., so that it runs around really well. So this is a way to create a market for artists, and it is even a market that benefits our society's most vulnerable. It's not the elite who's going to fund these artists. Well, that's one of them. The State Treasury, but the people it benefits are the dying, the sick, the socially burdened, etc. We think this is a very good arrangement. As far as funding is concerned, we are not in fact opposed to it, in other words to this inheritance tax. We have then just committed exactly the money for something else in our draft budget. On the other hand, we have set aside 200 million. kr. We have no doubt that the 10.9 million. kr., we're talking about, we're gonna find it. It is of course not very much money in the big account, but we believe that it can make a very big difference to the vulnerable, sick and dying, but also to the artists. Radicals support the proposal, but in relation to whether the state should interfere in this and whether it is not the task of the municipalities, I would like to repeat something that I said in my question to Mr Seligman. Orla Sea. It is a matter of discussing more caregivers in nursing homes later today in this Chamber. And it's no secret that you're quite under pressure in nursing homes and hospitals, where there's a case going on about this poor doctor who's been convicted of an offense that many doctors think they might have committed in a very busy and pressured day-to-day life. And there I just think that in a welfare sector that is so much under pressure, one cannot just say: it is also your responsibility to ensure that the sick and the socially vulnerable meet the highest Danish culture and art. I think that is putting a little too much pressure on institutions which are already under pressure. That is why we think it is a very good idea that this is a task that the state is taking on. And it is then with the help of artists who can both maintain a basis of life in this way, but which I think can also find a great deal of sense in their art helping to increase the quality of life of some of the most vulnerable in society.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114134929	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. And since the SF's rapporteur is not present and Conservatives are covered by the Left, we move on to the rapporteur for the proposers, Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114134942	Thank you so much. It was a very positive reception, and it gets even better. Because I welcome the SF and say that they can also support the proposal, so that is very good. Well, now it's not like we've found the stone of the wise. Over the years, many have put forward the same idea: the idea that cultural offers can help to give access to it to citizens of institutions who do not have the opportunity to seek out cultural and art experiences themselves. Let me repeat that it is about nursing homes, nursing centres, hospices, hospitals and other treatment institutions and settlements, so it is not only the elderly • it is also older. I fully agree with the Danish People's Party on this, and it is therefore broader than the older ones. I also believe, and it has also been said, that we agree on the positive effects, i.e. that this is not just for the individual citizen's personal well-being, but also for health and recovery. There is, of course, the fact that if it can mean shorter stays in institutions and less medicines and so on, then there is also a social benefit. That is why I fully agree that this should also be seen in relation to the whole issue of prescription health. It's just not so comprehensive, but it has to be seen in the context of it, that is, the idea that you can use culture and cultural services and art experiences as an investment, that is, as a way of saving some money, in fact, in addition to people getting better. It can be in nursing homes where you get more joy and fellowship, so you sleep better at night. I have seen broadcasts about how few employees there are at night in many nursing homes, and one of the problems is that elderly people and demented people do not sleep at night, and that is partly because there are not enough offers during the day. And that's why it can work there too. On hospices it can provide a soothing effect for the dying; hospitals have also been mentioned. I would also like to reiterate the issue of reduced consumption of medicines, which is extremely important. There is also one aspect in relation to the demented, where a song evening can be excellent and something that I certainly think should be done. You don't necessarily have to have professional artists for that, that is, to make a song night. But recent research has shown how creating some fragrances and some sounds and a costume and a language associated with a certain age can make demented more active because they like come back to a time they can relate to, and thus they have easier to cope with everyday life. And this isn't just about breaking up with the Højskole songbook. It requires some who also have an education in acting, so to speak, that you use professional actors for it. It is also one of the effects, and I fully agree with the Radicals in this proposal, which we also do not hide in the proposal that part of this is about creating more jobs for people who work artisticly and culturally on a professional basis. It has been said that this is already happening, and it would be totally absurd to dispute. Yeah, it's already happening, but it doesn't happen everywhere. This is far from happening anywhere, and there are many reasons for this. It may be because the economy is cramped, and perhaps there is also a reason that people are saying: are we getting anything out of this? Do we get anything out of it and dare we invest in it if we don't get anything out of it? There's the idea of this pool, of course, that you dare to invest and dare to take the chance and get some experience, and then maybe you'll tie up more firmly on it. I would like to stress that it is intended to be an experimental system so that we can systematically bring together the experience and thus discuss how we can develop it. I'm not familiar with the fact that I've been looking for the fact that there are some overall analyses from the municipalities and from the municipalities' institutions about the experience with this. It may well be that the Minister can pass it on to the committee, and then we can take it up in committee, but I am not aware of it. And this is going to be a way we'll be able to get this pickup. In this context, I would also like to say that I may not quite understand the argument "no," I do not understand at all the argument "that this is such an elitist thing over in Copenhagen." Sir. Orla Hav was almost up on the very, very tall nails compared to something with the Danish top and so classical music, or whatever it was that was supposedly something worse Copenhagen. But I would just like to say that it is the institutions that must seek. In other words, can it become more local than the institutions themselves have to seek? After all, the institutions are not seeking anything to satisfy the Danish Arts Foundation. The institutions are looking for something because they believe that the cooperation they want to make with a certain artist can be of benefit to the institution and the residents who are exactly at that institution. Can it be more local and more Waterside Denmark? I don't think so. I have a hard time imagining it, so I have to say I can't buy it. We propose that it be the Arts Foundation of the State, and that is because it is a three-year experimental scheme. The State Arts Foundation already has the expertise in relation to the house artist scheme, so instead of building a new bureaucracy around it we thought: OK, it might be there. And we have set aside the same amount as we get for the second scheme, 10.9 million. kr., and then you can think of something else if it turns out not to be appropriate. That is why we have put it in the National Arts Foundation for the first time, and what we are going to do in the long term is completely open to us. The important thing for us is that whatever model you make, it must be based on a partnership between the specific institution and the professional artists to be used to ensure these experiences. In relation to where the money is to come from, that is to say the funding, I would say that our proposal for funding does not mean that I assume that it is an amount that frightens somebody. Yeah, whose winning giro, or whatever it's called, called me and said I'd won 10.9 million. kr., I'd be happy. However, in relation to the state's accounts, it is not an amount that destroys the country, and over three years it is therefore 31.8 million. kr., as far as I can figure out in the head. So it is not the amount of money that matters, and we can probably find funding elsewhere if we do not like the funding that we have presented. It is just our proposal because we do not like to make unfunded proposals, but we are open to discussing it. In general, we are open to debate, and this also applies to the proposals made by the Alternative, that instead of extending the mandate of the Danish Arts Foundation. It's also an option. The crucial thing for us is to go one step further and take advantage of the new research and the understanding that has been brought to us in this area to move forward. Then we can start with it in committee, and if we can find out something in committee, then our proposal does not matter at all. So, this is just an opportunity to have that discussion and to move one step further for the benefit of the job opportunities of artists, but above all for the benefit of those citizens who for some reason are forced to be in an institution, whether due to illness, old age, dementia or something quite fourth. Thank you for the debate and I look forward to the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114135813	There's a comment. Mrs. Zenia Stampe, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114135816	I did not say it myself, but I can then put a question to the proposer about it. To the argument that this is elitist and Copenhagen, could one not well imagine that some of the artists who also want to enter into a partnership with an institution are local artists? This means that it is not a Copenhagener or one from Vesterbro who comes to West Jutland. It may be a West Jutland artist who can enter into a partnership and do such a house art work or do house art at an institution during a limited period in his own local area.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114135852	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114135853	I think it is very obvious that you should do something in a nursing home in Brønderslev or Hvide Sande, or where I know, you also look around and hear what is in the local environment by local artists. And if they otherwise meet the conditions and why shouldn't they? In other words, artists in the rest of the country are at least as talented as artists in Copenhagen. I actually think that if you did this, there would be a very, very clear Udkantsdanmarkprofile; Udkantsdanmark is a terrible word, but there will be a very clear profile compared to that part of Denmark that has been pushed aside a little for many years. And it will simply be because it is also often where the economy is most strained, where you have to turn the crowns the most, and where you may be in doubt whether this can really be beneficial. You get an opportunity to test this option.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114140001	Thank you. No one else has asked to speak and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Culture. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114140015	The debate is open. Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114140036	Thank you for that, President. L 81 is an illogical mix of different approaches with widely differing intentions and subject areas, and social democracy cannot support the proposal as it stands. As such, it makes sense to create a new model for the management of red game with the aim of ensuring a better distribution of the gender and age of deer populations and of spreading the animals more geographically. It is also an initiative that will open up the possibility for more people to observe these magnificent animals. On the other hand, the Social Democratic Party is opposed to two of the central elements of the bill, namely the authorisation of falcon hunting and permission for large additions close to the Danish forests without a derogation. With the bill, the government wants to legalize falcon hunting. We are opposed to this in the Social Democratic Party. We believe that falcon hunting goes against animal ethical considerations. The falcon is a wild animal that does not belong in a cage but belongs in nature. Hunting with falcons is not part of the Danish hunting culture, but belongs in the Middle East, where it has been a tradition for centuries, and so it should continue to be. The government and the Danish People's Party tend to be skeptical when it comes to importing Middle Eastern customs into Denmark, and I wonder why it is not also true when we talk about falcon hunting. Falcon hunting can threaten the population of wild falcons at home, because people can be tempted to steal birds of prey from nature and use them for hunting or selling them, where they can bring quite large sums of money. In the consultation answers, the protection of animals highlights precisely that it can increase the demand for birds of prey, and I simply see no reason to risk that. Nor can the social democracy support the government's desire for greater construction close to the Danish forests. In connection with the agreement on the law of plans, we said no to this initiative, and of course we stand by that. I will not fail to mention that I do not think that it is good conciliation practice for the government to present a legislative proposal on this matter now, when we have recently concluded a joint planning agreement. The Social Democratic Party believes that the requirement for a derogation should be maintained, so that the derogation for building close to forest is granted after some concrete and local considerations about local conditions, and the derogation is reasonable for the municipalities. In addition, the system we currently have, with a derogation, ensures that there is a control over the size of the additions we authorise in the open country close to our forests. With those comments, the Social Democrats cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114140325	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pia Adelsteen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114140336	Thank you. L 81 has several purposes. One of the aims is to create a new model for the management of red game. It is in order to ensure more older deer in the stocks, better gender distribution and better age distribution, and so simply to increase geographical distribution for the benefit of people who think that such a thing is pretty to look at. Then we give the law to the minister to allow falcon hunting. It has been a wish from the Danish People's Party, and it has actually emerged from many stories about Ring Colonies, about seagull colonies that bother people, so that people cannot sit out in their gardens, and where I have been informed that falconers can do this by using their falcons, by using falcons for hunting. For us, this is an improvement in the animal welfare that the falcons actually have. We do not change the rules on how falcons are to be reared, we do not change the rules on how to take care of them. We're practically not changing the rules for anything. There's still a lot of demands gone. And we demand that you have to have a hunting education and that you also have to be trained falcones. But you do not have to go to Germany to hunt with your falcons, you do not have to go to Belgium to hunt with your falcons, and, contrary to what the Social Democrats think, this is also happening there and not just in the Middle East. So that way it's really good, and I really hope that this will help remove some of these colonies that you look at the rooftops of hospitals and that you see at stations where people can't stand sitting in their gardens nearby. Then we allow bowing on larger deer than there are rules for at this time. We allow an experimental scheme of red game, deer and sika game. Of course, it has to be evaluated after 4 years to see if this is good. When arch hunts were introduced back in 1999, there had also been an experimental scheme of 5 years, assessing whether it was o.k. to shoot with bow and arrow. It was estimated at the time. Now we are going to go up to a little bigger animals where, of course, we also have to make an assessment of whether this is justified. There is also the possibility that if the Minister finds out that there are some shortcomings, he will simply interrupt this attempt immediately. That is good, because it is always the animals that we have to take into account here. Then there is a simplification in the draft law of some provisions on the issue of hunting signs, and last but certainly not least, there is a change in the forest building line, where we get one, what can be said, administrative relief so I would call it so that there will not be a discrepans between the law of plans and the forest building line, and therefore it will be possible to build full-year houses and businesses up to 500 m2 within the forest building line, where the limit before was 250 m2. It makes great sense because we have places in the country where there are companies that would like to use some of these empty properties, but also need some more space, and instead of having to go through administrative trouble, where you have to apply for a derogation, you have a right here. I think that's really good. In the Danish People's Party we support the proposal. We're really happy about it. I have worked a little too hard for falcon hunting, so I think I would like to add that I also think that it is an improvement in terms of animal welfare for the falcons and birds of prey we now have in captivity. So we are very pleased with the proposal itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114140738	Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democratic Party, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114140741	Thank you. I would like to ask the rapporteur about animal welfare, because the Danish People's Party has for many years had a very sharp animal welfare profile and has been a strong advocate of animal welfare. And if you read the consultation answers, you can read that both DOF and Animal Protection are concerned about falcon hunting and whether wild specimens can be stolen from nature and animal welfare at all. Doesn't it impress the Danish People's Party that large organisations, which generally speak up for the animals, are warning against the action that is being approved today?
ParlaMint-DK_20171114140820	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114140821	Yes, of course it makes an impression. We are very happy to listen to the protection of animals, to all these animal organisations, and we have always been known for this. But there are several things in this. If you take such things as DOCO, that is, the Animal Protection Organisation's Cooperation Organisation, they write directly that the organization is against wild animals in captivity and the use of animals for entertainment, and that they are generally opposed to hunting. As I see it, hunting actually helps improve animal welfare. If we have many animals of the same kind, they starve or do not feel well or have too little space etc. etc. And that's why we have some hunting regulations. So already there, we disagree on at least some of that. The protection of animals distances itself from teams and hunting with birds of prey, but I find it very difficult in their hearing to see what it is about hunting they do not like. One thing is that they think you should not keep birds, but then I think you should perhaps go all in no, you should not say that, but then I can say that you might have to take the step in full and say: is it all birds that we should ban in cages?
ParlaMint-DK_20171114140932	Thank you. Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen. I would like to remind you that it is a good thing that you should just press in if you want the number two remark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114140941	Thank you. I'll keep that in mind. After all, it wasn't DOSO who's against all the hunting I asked about. I am not against all hunting and will not be taken as income for what DOSO might think of this or that. I asked specifically about the protection of animals and the DOF, which has also given a hearing response. So that is what I would ask the rapporteur to deal with, and not another hearing answer that I do not think is so relevant. I have lived in Kolding right up against a colony in relation to the raw materials problem, and it is extremely annoying, and I would be very positive if we could take action against it. But I also hear that experts have very different assessments of whether this will be effective. And that problem could also be dealt with if falconers were to be set up within the current scope of exemption, and then you could test it. But that is not at all an argument for opening up in general to falcon hunting.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114141035	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114141036	I'm sorry I just got DOSO and DOF mixed up that shouldn't happen. I think I turned the wrong side. When DOF, i.e. the Danish Ornithological Association, writes in their hearing answer that they find that hunting with birds of prey brings pressure on the protection of birds of prey, then I disagree. I am well aware that some people are out collecting eggs. It is illegal today, it is illegal tomorrow, and it is also illegal after we have adopted this bill. But I doubt it's falconers who do it. Falkons are not just a day's stay, and my point is that we demand that if you are to be falconers and have birds of prey in cages and use them for hunting, you also have to have an education. It will then be written in an announcement later, and of course these organizations will also be included.I have no doubt that the minister will do so and say: okay, how do we do this in the best possible way, so we are sure that falconers are of course behaving properly? But falconers are dedicated to their birds of prey, and you just have to remember that. Then I would just like to refer to the Animal Ethics Council, which writes: It seems to be a welfare enrichment for the birds also to be used for hunting.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114141146	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has any comments. Sir. Erling Bonnesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114141203	Thank you. The Left's usual rapporteur on this matter, Mrs Anni Matthiesen, was immediately prevented, so I have promised to take the matter. I would like to start by saying that the previous rapporteur, the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, has examined the draft law well, including with regard to rednecks, falcon hunting and animal welfare in connection with it, and the pilot scheme for bowing down, and I can say quite clearly that the Left of course supports this bill. I should also like to welcome the Conservative People's Party and say that they also support the bill. I would add that today we are dealing first with a legislative proposal which serves several purposes: firstly, it must ensure better hunting and game management; secondly, it must make it easier for citizens and companies to build and build in or within the forest building line, but there are some clear markings in the draft law on how much they can expand, so that it is finely measured. If we start with hunting and game management, there are many considerations that need to be taken into account. Every year, approx. 177.000 Danes hunting signs, and there are a lot of people who also enjoy experiencing nature through hunting. Therefore, it is important to ensure that we achieve the right balance between hunters' opportunities to hunt and sustainable management of the game, so that nature and animals do not suffer harm, and so that we can also ensure the opportunities for future hunters to hunt. We also have a job to do to reduce the damage caused by game to farmland, forests and crops, for example. can often cause damage by eating and trampling down some of the agricultural crops, or they can cause damage to conifers or newly planted forests. So there are many considerations to consider. At the same time, we would also like to ensure that citizens around the country have the opportunity to see the game in the surrounding nature. At the same time, we are trying to abolish unnecessary rules and requirements. For example: doesn't make sense that a hunter who only wants a rifle or bow hunt sign also has to take, for example. shotgun tests. So it is also good that it is looked at. Nor does it make sense to ban hunting practices which are otherwise good experiences with other countries, but as the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party also mentioned, it is now also opening up to allow for falcon hunting. When we talk about unnecessary rules, this bill will also simplify the rules for building within the forest-building line. We will bring the Nature Conservation Act into line with the Planning Act, and thus the good initiatives we have already taken to give Danes better opportunities to operate and work and live in rural areas will also apply within the forest-building line. As I said, I would like to reiterate that the Left supports the bill, and we should also welcome the Conservative People's Party and say that they also support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114141507	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114141517	Thank you. The draft law here consists of several different elements which do not necessarily fit in very well. Part of this is about better management of red deer in order to ensure more older deer in the stock. We support this in the Enhedslisten. In addition, the bill should allow for falcon hunting and the possibility of killing game with bow and arrow. Here we are in Enhedslisten more skeptical. The Danish Ornithological Association states that it can lead to pressure on the protection of birds of prey and thus can have a negative impact on the wild population of falcons and birds of prey. The same is true of the animals' protection, which states that there are animal welfare problems with falcon hunting. We in the Enhedslist need to get more light on this in committee. Finally, the draft law contains something quite different, namely the abolition of the requirement for derogations for certain conversions and conversions within the forest-building line. Enhedslisten doesn't support that. By abolishing the requirement for derogation, we believe that we are in danger of getting much more building close to forests. We believe, both from the point of view of landscape and nature, that there must be tools in the Nature Conservation Act to limit construction to the brink of our forests. So with these comments I can conclude that Enhedslisten cannot support the overall legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114141646	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114141653	Overall, this bill, L 81, gives greater freedom to hunters around the country when they hunt. It opens up new or even closer to ancient hunting methods such as bow hunting and falcon hunting. I am sure that increased freedom will benefit not only hunters but also forest owners and nature. Especially the falcon hunt has been somewhat controversial. Some people think it is a barbaric and even an unspeakable form of hunting, but when you experience them, I think they are extremely talented falconers who are in Denmark, then I think it is quite clear that if there is something they care so much about, it is the well-being of their birds. I myself and probably also a very large part of the rest of the Danish population may remember a pretty good example. At any rate, it was possible to experience just how much the falconers care about their birds, in a section of the DR programme Nak and Eat, where a Danish falconer lost its bird under tragic circumstances in France. There was certainly no doubt here about how much the falconers appreciate their birds. In this context, I can see from the draft law that no such direct decision is taken as to whether foreign species of birds of prey may be used for hunting or whether they are only indigenous species. There I certainly think it would be sensible for the decree to draw a direction from the outset and allow foreign species to be used for hunting in Denmark as well. I do not believe that the argument of so-called fauna pollution holds water, precisely because the falconers are as good as they once are and because they look after their birds so well. One could then perhaps also make some kind of marking of birds with tracking equipment, because then it would be easier to find them again if they were to fly too far away. Finally, I would also like to point out another point, namely a provision in the law, which many of the hunters with whom I have spoken would have liked to have changed. That is the provision that hunting should not take place between 1 February and 31 August. At any rate, the hunting is an extremely important tool in relation to the management of game in Denmark, and there are certain species that have already expanded needs. Therefore, the Ministry has also opened up the hunt for redneck game in February. The Game Management Council has recommended hunting for gray geese in August 2018 and, in addition, new species also require an extended hunting season, for example. wild boar, which is returning to Danish nature. Here there will be a need for hunting in large parts of the year. It is already possible to extend hunting times today, but it is a very long and very hasty, bureaucratic process which is of no benefit to anyone. By removing the provisions of the legislation it will become much more flexible and transparent. This is a view which has also been expressed by a large number of organisations and which I and the Liberal Alliance share. It will then also be something that we may have the opportunity to discuss in committee; but at least it has now been mentioned here today from Parliament's platform. All in all, the Liberal Alliance supports the bill, and indeed also those parts which contain changes concerning the forest-building line, which have also been a little debated in previous rapporteurs' speeches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114142053	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114142102	Here we see a bit of a mess of various adjustments in the natural field, and that makes it difficult to relate to the proposal together, but it is not so difficult again here, because we are against most of it. We say no to hunting with birds of prey because, in relation to the welfare of birds, it may be questionable, as several consultation parties highlight, and because the risk of fauna pollution and illegal capture of birds of prey are increasing. Moreover, there is no certainty that hunting birds do not attack protected species and, finally, there is a certain degree of misattack that leaves prey to a slow death. We say no to the general adjustment of hunting rules because it will not solve the problem described. In the Wildlife Management Council, it is therefore only the hunters who believe that the changes will do so; the rest of the members believe that a different model is needed if we are to ensure, among other things, that we do not lose sight of it. a larger proportion of older deer, greater calf shooting and less trophy hunting. We also say no to bow hunting because the affected animals are likely to die more slowly. Both the Animal Ethics Council and the Animal Protection Council and several others state that there is a lack of knowledge, and I would like to know whether there is knowledge from other countries where arch-hunting has been allowed for a long time. If it can be shown that bow hunting kills animals as quickly as rifle hunting, then the alternative will be positive towards this form of hunting, but we have to see that. Finally, we say no to the facilitation of construction within the forest-building line, because forests need to have more space and less disturbance. It is noted by the Nature Conservation Association that the reliefs may be at odds with the habitats directive's requirement that there should be an assessment of the impact of construction on Annex 4 species and Natura 2000 areas, which are otherwise regulated in section 29a of the Nature Conservation Act, but are now moved to the construction process where this expertise does not exist. So, overall, the alternative cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114142307	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Pia Adelsteen, the Danish People's Party, who has a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114142313	Thank you. It is just a question because there was simply something I did not understand in one of the arguments. One thing, then, is that you do not think that falcon hunting should be allowed, and that is fair enough. But one of the arguments was that one could not be sure whether birds of prey attacked protected species. Well, the birds of prey are on their way back to Denmark, and I don't suppose that Mr. Christian Poll thinks they should go. And no, of course we don't know who the wild birds are attacking, but a falconer is training his bird to do something specific. That's the whole point of this. So I just didn't get it. But it may be that it can be deepened. Then there is another question, and that is in relation to bow hunting. We have too little knowledge. However, there was, as I described in my opening speech, an attempt from 1992 to 1997, when an assessment was made, and then in 1999 it was allowed to have the kind of hunting that we now have. Now we're gonna do another try. In order to gain more knowledge, you have to try, don't you?
ParlaMint-DK_20171114142420	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114142421	Thank you. Let's see: The first question was about bird of prey hunting. It is true that in nature there is a balance in which the natural population of birds of prey attacks and devours other birds, and some of them will be protected. But it's nature's balance. A completely different matter is for us when permission is given for some kind of hunting with what kind of weapon it is, it doesn't matter because then you put a certain pressure on the population of birds, and it will be really hard to ask the falcon not to go after protected species when you send it off. So I think there is a very big difference between the two. As far as bow hunting is concerned, I simply lean on the consultation answers that I see, where animal protection in particular says that what happens when you hit an animal with a bow is that the animal then bleeds to death, whereas in ordinary hunting it goes much faster. That's where the difference lies. As I said, I'd like to be smarter in this area, but that's just the concern I'm conveying.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114142530	Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114142532	It is quite all right to have a concern about that. That is precisely why, when you want to do this experiment of arch-hunting on larger animals, you have to look for it to be done in a proper way and that the minister also has the authority to stop the experiment immediately if you think there is something unintentional. Compared to this one with birds of prey attacking protected species, I just want to say that a falconer with a bird of prey on equal terms with a hunter must observe hunting times and hunting rules etc. That is something that must also be respected there, and it is also enshrined in the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114142611	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114142612	Yes, I am well aware of that. But it is, I think, anything else just easier to point the gay mouth at the right animal than it is to try to stop a falcon attacking an animal from a protected species. So I think there is a certain degree of truth in the concern that I have therefore expressed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114142637	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then there is a new rapporteur, and that is Mrs Zenia Stampe, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114142644	I am filling in for the whole of two rapporteurs today. I also brought with me two rapporteurs so that I could make such a Festival: Do you want one speech or another? Fortunately, the conclusion is the same. After all, the bill contains several proposals, but in particular two rather controversial proposals, namely permission for falcon hunting and construction in the forest-building line. We are opposed to further watering down the forest building line. We need to look after our forests. That is the one proposal. The second proposal that we will spend the most time on is about falcon hunting and also hunting with bow. We really need to be careful that the changes to these rules do not lead to a significant number of these wild birds of prey ending up in cages under bad conditions. In fact, we would like to consider supporting a three-year trial of falcon hunting if the Minister introduces the recommendations of the Animal Health Council at the same time. You have given a very sensible hearing answer, which we Radicals think the Minister is far too easy to answer. The Council, for example, recommends: requirements for bird-keeping and training whose falcon hunting is to be introduced. They recommend that it be an attempt, and they also demand more knowledge of arch-hunting before it is introduced. However, in all cases, the Ministry replies in the consultation note that the comments are taken into account when making the notices by the Ministry. So we do not know whether the advice is being followed, and the law therefore allows carte blanche for the Minister to decide for himself how much he will follow these recommendations, and we will not just give the Minister that carte blanche, unless we can be reassured in the work of the committee. Then perhaps we could consider voting in favour, but there are many warning lights that blink for us. We have heard a lot about these responsible and talented falconers, with whom we also have great faith and sympathy, but we are a little afraid that this proposal is not just about them, but that it is just as much about big business, because there are also people who want to keep hundreds of falcons in cages and sell them to the rest of Europe. You can get 50,000 kroner. For a falcon young, we are a little afraid that this bill is really going to turn this into an industry rather than for the sake of these individual falconers. If that were not the case, perhaps we could be sure of it by introducing some of the recommendations made by the Animal Ethics Council. Such a model would also benefit the falcons already in cages today, but that is not what the government is proposing. So the entire authority is placed in the hands of the government without us knowing where the government is going. We also find it a little difficult to understand how a party like the Danish People's Party, which is usually the protector of animals, and which is usually very critical of too broad powers, can support this proposal. That is why it does not seem that we can support it so far, and we also think it is scandalous that the government has apparently not sent the letter sent to the Game Management Council on falcon hunting to the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114142955	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Mrs. Pia Adelsteen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114142958	Thank you. I just want to say that there will be demands. After all, we are not changing the requirements that are in relation to keeping birds at this time. There are no changes there. If, in the previous government, we thought that the birds of prey that we have in the present approx. 30 falconers in Denmark, were treated really, really bad, one should have already at that time been in and say that one had to change the rules. These are not the rules that are being changed. What we're saying is that now you have to use your bird of prey for hunting. It's really just that. There are also demands for training. The Falconers themselves have wanted it to avoid this discussion, and believe me, in the Danish People's Party, where we are very much in favour of animal welfare, we would never ever sit and say that now all birds of prey must have it at Pomerania. We're just not like that. It's not our style at all. In relation to the forest-building line, I just want to point out that what's just so good, in any case, in this rule, is that the forest-building line is somewhere from the forest edge and 300 m out. So we have very many places in the countryside where we need some development, and that can only happen by relaxing a little on the opportunities that are also there.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114143120	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114143121	But that was an incredibly sympathetic speech by the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mrs Pia Adelsteen. The only problem is that we do not have any certainty about the things that Mrs Pia Adelsteen has put forward here. If we had it, perhaps we would see much more positive, or so we would not be able to help give this carte blanche, also because we have this concern over what is not the falconers, but this bird of prey, where you make an industry out of breeding birds of prey, which you can then sell for approx. 50,000 kroner. per All right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114143207	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114143210	Thank you. It's close that I'm going to issue the warranty. We have a minister over there who I have no doubt will listen to what we are saying. So if that's what's crucial, I actually think I can issue that guarantee. In view of the fact that we have just closed down dog factories or very much want to, we are not at all prepared for the fact that now we have to make bird-prey factories. That's not how the world works for us. So it's just to say that we are actually also trying to do this on the basis of an animal welfare commitment.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114143250	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114143252	But if Mrs Pia Adelsteen and the Danish People's Party are so sure that these considerations are also taken further in the authorisation and implementation of this bill, then I cannot understand why it has not just been incorporated into the law. So it's a little weird for the Radical Left to hear that we just have to trust that the Danish People's Party is in control of the government. Now I don't know who I'm going to trust most, the Danish People's Party or the government, but we'd rather have it in the law, and if the Danish People's Party really wanted to have a squeeze on the government, it was by getting it into the law, so that we could all be sure where this ends.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114143330	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more short remarks right now. The next speaker is the rapporteur for the SF, and that is Mrs Trine Torp. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114143339	Thank you. In the SF, we can't support the bill. The first part, which is a change to the hunting law, cannot be supported because we are against falcon hunting, i.e. hunting with birds of prey, and bow hunting on large animals. As stated in the Animal Protection Act, Chapter 2, § 13: Whoever wants to kill an animal must ensure that the animal is killed as quickly and painlessly as possible. We believe that birds of prey belong in the wild, and we do not see the purpose of keeping birds of prey for hunting. On the contrary, this relaxation of the law may mean that more birds of prey will be held in captivity and that it will increase the demand for endangered animals. This is also the case in the rapporteur's report, but I do not see what measures are being taken, for example. will be in relation to preventing illegal trade and strengthening the endangered species in the wild rather than in captivity. We also fear that the hunt will be used as a pure entertainment and lead to an increase in the number of injured prey. If the purpose is pest control, it is not an effective form. If the aim is to reduce the number of gulls and gulls, it is preferable to strengthen the natural presence of birds of prey, for example. by setting up nest boxes in areas where the gull or rudder plague is large. Falkehunt, as far as I am aware, is also illegal in all the Nordic countries. As far as bow hunting on larger deer game is concerned, I think we should listen to the Animal Ethnic Council, the Ornithological Association and the Protection of Animals, all of which point out that there is a lack of knowledge about the effectiveness of bow hunting and that, therefore, at least a controlled study should be carried out which can create an independent knowledge base before an experimental scheme. If you now call it an attempt in the bill, how are you going to collect information about shootings, including, for example: whether how long the animals will die or bleed to death? What exactly is the basis for an evaluation of this so-called experiment? That is one of the questions to which we lack answers. If the justification for the bill is regulation of the stock of deer, it would be more obvious to let hunters generally concentrate on hunting exactly the species which are needed to regulate and which are naturally occurring game, rather than putting their trust in bow hunts, which there are very few who practice, and then at the same time expose a lot of bird game species to hunting. And then I would also like to know which countries have said no to bow hunts on the big game species and why they have done so. Nor can we support the second part of the bill on the Nature Conservation Act, because it is a question of abolishing exemptions based on amendments to the Planning Act, which we have voted against. So in those words, we cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114143638	There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. And since the Conservative People's Party is covered by the rapporteur of the Left, I can now give the floor to the Minister for the Environment and Food. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114143650	Thank you for that, President, and thank the rapporteurs for the speeches. The bill contains amendments to two laws, including the amendment of the hunting and game management law, which introduces different options for establishing new rules. The government wants it to be possible, as in a number of other European countries, to hunt birds of prey in Denmark. The bill therefore provides for the possibility of introducing hunting using certain birds of prey, also called falcon hunting. The detailed rules on falcon hunting will contain a number of requirements for the falconers. For example: you must both have a common hunting sign and undergo a special falcon test, and there is a requirement that birds of prey be marked with radio transmitters or GPS. Falkes can be used for example. to regulate crows, seagulls and groves which are a major nuisance to the citizens of many of our cities. It also provides for the possibility of carrying out a bow-hunt experiment on larger deer game. For many years it has been possible to hunt wild game with bows, but now the government wants to carry out an experiment where also game, game and red game can be shot with bows and arrows. The study is subsequently evaluated. The bill also follows up on the new management plan for red game, which includes: shall contribute to minimising the risk that red game causes damage to fields and forests. The hunt must continue within an ethically sound and sustainable framework, and that is why there will be, among other things, an ethically sound and sustainable framework. new rules forbid the so-called pressure hunts and drift hunts on red game during certain periods of the year, for example. during the heat period, and rules on the feeding of the crayfish. At the same time, the draft law also opens up the possibility of setting up temporary local experiments to investigate instruments and tools to help strengthen current hunting and game management. Finally, there will be the possibility that you will no longer be forced to pass a shotgun test if you are interested in hunting only with a rifle. Why all these initiatives? Yes, it is because we think hunting is a healthy way to travel in nature, and because we want to support the Danish hunters in getting more opportunities, just as we have incredibly great confidence in our Danish hunters and the representatives who are in their organizations. Then we have a change to the Nature Conservation Act, and that is a minor change. The change is to simplify the management of the forest building line so that it is adapted to the rules of the planning act. The proposal means that, in future, the same rules will apply to the extension of full-year houses and companies established in redundant buildings, within the forest-building line and in land-zones. I look forward to the bill now being able to reinstate two old hunting forms such as falcon hunting and bow hunting on larger deer game in Denmark. At the same time, we are creating a better and more up-to-date framework for a sustainable future in managing our crown game for the benefit of hunters, pilot owners and citizens in general. Finally, with the adaptation of the rules on the forest-building line, we ensure that it is easier to operate and live throughout the country. This is something that the government is very concerned about, and I am glad that we, together with the Danish People's Party, can implement that proposal. I look forward to continued treatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114144000	There is one for a brief remark. Mrs. Pia Adelsteen, DF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114144003	It is just a simple question, and it is somewhat in relation to the rule that is • I think it is called the "shoulder" rule that hunting times should always be in the period from 1 September to 31 January, when all species have actually been given the same time frame, despite the fact that they may breed etc. At different times. Is that something you can look at? Can it be changed so that it is more versatile than when to allow hunting?
ParlaMint-DK_20171114144035	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114144036	Thank you for the question and a very relevant point. In fact, we have already opened up regional differences by involving the regional deer game groups, and for a few months there has been a great deal of work under the local departments of the Danish Federation of Hunters if we can say so in this way that input has been provided on how local differences can occur in general in our fixing of certain hunting times.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114144102	Does the author wish to speak on another brief point? That is not the case, so I would like to thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114144123	The debate is open and I give the floor to the Minister for the Elderly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114144144	Thank you very much. Thank you for the floor. Today we are dealing with a motion for a resolution on setting standards in nursing homes. The motion for a resolution requires the government to ensure that there is sufficient staffing in nursing homes so that staff can respond 24 hours a day to citizens' needs for care and support without waiting, and that at the same time there must always be at least two staff members with relevant training and experience in night shifts. Overall, it is important for the government that older citizens have a dignified care and care that allows them to continue to live their lives with the greatest possible self-determination and quality of life. I agree that there must be the right staffing at the care centres so that citizens can have the care and care they need at all times of the day, but to put minimum staffing requirements at the care centres is contrary to municipal autonomy and, at the same time, it is a poor use of resources in the area of the elderly, and that is why I and the government cannot support that. In order to ensure the basis for dignified care for the elderly, the governing parties and the Danish People's Party, with the latest financial agreements, have ensured priority for money that can be used to recruit more staff, where the municipalities consider the need to be greatest, for example. at the care centers during the night classes. In addition, the latest agreement on the municipalities' finances for 2018 provided for 800 million. kr. for more core welfare, including supporting the work of municipalities in providing dignified care and care for citizens. Yesterday we presented a wage-pool agreement in the area of the elderly, which guarantees more than 325 million. kr. the next four years for important initiatives. This means, among other things, the introduction of enhanced supervision in the area of the elderly, the establishment of a national knowledge centre for dignified care for the elderly and the creation of a pool of loneliness. This is an agreement that I am very pleased with and which must ensure more dignity for the weakest elderly. Finally, with proposals for the 2018 Finance Act, the government has set out to give priority to 500 million. kr. annual for a boost to the core welfare of e.g. health and the elderly. The funds will be implemented as part of the ongoing negotiations on the 2018 Finance Act. In examining the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution, it is important to bear in mind that the municipalities already have a legislative obligation under the Service Act to provide the necessary help and care to older citizens who can no longer take care of themselves. Care and care must be based on a concrete individual assessment of the needs and conditions of the individual citizen, and care and care must be available 24 hours a day. It is the responsibility of each municipality to ensure a good and appropriate organisation of municipal home care which takes into account the wishes of citizens and local needs. It follows from municipal autonomy, and it is not something that can or must be dictated from Christiansborg. The municipal autonomy means, among other things, that the individual municipality has the freedom to decide for itself how the tasks to be performed by the municipality will be carried out in the municipality, for example. At the nursing homes. If we lay down in legislation rules on how municipalities should plan shifts at individual and very different care centres, we will put an end to self-government, while at the same time it is my clear conviction that shift planning is best carried out in the individual municipality and in the individual nursing home, where it can be taken into account that the needs and wishes of the elderly are different. In these municipal elections we should perhaps ask ourselves whether we at Christiansborg are better at prioritising and organising the local effort than the municipalities themselves are, and I do not think so. At the same time, it would be a bad and inflexible use of resources in the area of the elderly to require municipalities to ensure that there are always at least two employees on night shifts. This kind of retail management also limits the local management room, which I think we should instead strengthen. I believe that there is great potential in showing confidence in local leaders, because trust provides good and committed leadership. There is also a risk that minimum standards will become maximum standards in practice because the municipalities will set the service in line with the centrally defined standards. This may mean that the municipalities will move resources from the very nursing elderly to the less nursing or from the large nursing homes to the smaller nursing homes to meet the minimum requirement. In other words, minimum standards in practice may mean that some elderly people will experience less care than they do today. I do not think this is a wise use of tax dollars or a fair approach to the elderly. The comments to the motion for a resolution refer to an examination of the conditions in the care centres, which was carried out in 2016. The study shows that it is difficult to say anything firm about the standards in the country's care centres. You cannot immediately compare the standards across the care centres, and the standard number does not always say how much time there is for the individual resident. The care centres are of different sizes and furnishings, and I therefore do not think that minimum requirements for all care centres are the right way to go. Local authorities are now obliged to follow up on a regular basis whether the aid fulfils their purpose and, as part of their supervisory obligation, the municipalities must carry out at least one unannounced inspection every year at the care centres in the municipality. It is also the responsibility of the municipalities to ensure that the municipal staff have the necessary skills to solve the tasks of home care, so that they are equipped to carry out the task, including in relation to people with dementia and tracing signs of emerging disease. It is my experience, when I am in the municipalities, that the municipalities are very aware of their obligations and their responsibilities, and in conclusion I would say that the government shares the wishes of the proposers that citizens should be able to have the care and care they need at all times of the day, but we do not agree that minimum standards should be laid down in the care centres. It would be a breach of municipal autonomy, which I think we should support instead. So when I follow the municipal election campaign, I have no doubt that the municipalities are concerned about ensuring good and dignified care and care in the country's care centres, and the government cannot therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114144845	For the time being, two short remarks have been made to the Minister and the first is Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114144850	Thank you to the Minister for coming to the Chamber and discussing a hot topic: the manning of our nursing home. It is no more than 11⁄2 weeks ago that Denmark's Radio was able to tell about a completely new study of how it looks with the staffing at the nursing homes, and there you could among other things. hear that there are nursing homes in Denmark, where a night watchman stands alone with responsibility for 42 residents. There are also municipalities where you are on average alone with 35 residents at night. I did not hear any suggestion from the Minister about what to do about it at all. Only a rejection of the proposal that we are making, and of course I think that is a pity. But I still have hope, because I could hear the Minister misunderstand our proposal. Because we do not write anything about minimum standards; we write that it should be written into the law that there should be sufficient staffing in nursing homes so that, as older people, you should not wait unnecessarily for help, you can get the help you need. And it contains exactly an assessment in the individual municipality of what the right rating is. It is so true that we go in and say that there must be at least two at night so that there will be no dangerous situations where we stand alone, but it is not a minimum standard that we are proposing here. Then could I ask the Minister to take a stand on what we are actually proposing?
ParlaMint-DK_20171114145013	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114145015	Yes, it is quite correct that nothing has been said about minimum standards, but it is said here that there must be at least two. I myself have been working in this area for a long time, and I know that in small nursing homes as a manager you will be able to go in and judge that only one night shift is needed here, and in return you will need more in larger nursing homes. There should be no doubt that it is important for me for the elderly to have a dignified care and care, both day, evening and night. However, it is also clear from the Services Act that the municipalities must:
ParlaMint-DK_20171114145102	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114145104	What would be new with our proposal is, of course, in addition to what the Minister says in the Service Act in advance, that you will go in and say that the manning has a meaning, and that is something, for example. the monitoring can also take a specific position on this issue. That is why it has been written into what corresponds to the Services Act in Sweden, where we have taken this wording. So what I miss from the Minister is a recognition that manning matters, and with the rules that we have today, which do not relate at all to manning, we are unfortunately experiencing what we have recently heard in the press, namely that some employees in the elderly end up with responsibility for citizens far, far beyond what is reasonable, both to the employees and also to the citizens themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114145147	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114145149	Well, the diversity that characterizes us human beings is also seen in the individual nursing homes, both in terms of the physical framework and the interior design, but also in terms of the residents who live there and their needs. Therefore, it will also be an opportunity for the individual leader to go in and look at how best to apply the standards that one now has. So I think it is important that, as a municipality, you have the responsibility that it is stated in the Service Act to ensure that the individual citizen is helped with what they need, and this applies 24 hours a day, but it is also important that you as a manager have the opportunity to use your employees at the times when it is most needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114145242	The next question is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114145245	Thank you. In the light of the important debate, which the Minister himself also says is a hot theme in the election campaign, I can be a little concerned when the Minister refers to the local management room. Because it is not going to be bigger than we are, and I really think the Minister owes Mrs Stine Brix a slightly more precise answer than what I think Mrs Stine Brix got. So I would like to ask whether it is the Minister's view that there are sufficient resources to provide dignified care for the elderly, as the resources currently appear, and whether it is possible to take care of 42 or as many as 60 citizens on a night shift as a night watchman alone. And it's really just a yes or no answer I want here.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114145341	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114145342	I simply do not recognize the premise that continues to repeat Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen has said it several times to me, namely whether there is enough economy. The government is simply giving priority to the elderly area in the 2016 Finance Act, where we, together with the Danish People's Party, have come up with a dignity billion, which comes every year, and where we see that this year it is 86%. of the dignity billion that is being used for more staff in the municipalities. There you can prioritise and choose the night watchman if that is exactly where you think there is a lack of resources. Next, in 2017, we also got the rock card • just yesterday I was out to hear how important it is • where you can also hire more staff. Then we have had an economic agreement with the municipalities for 2018, where 800 million have been set aside. kr., and as recently as yesterday a bet pool negotiation, which also brought opportunities in the area of older people. We emphasized, among other things, that: also with this dignified care centre, which I think is very important, and which was also highlighted by DF's rapporteur Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114145507	The second brief remark is the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114145510	I wonder if it wasn't just a lot of words to say that we have enough resources if that's what the minister was trying to say. Then I would just like to remind you that citizens say that resources are needed, that staff say that resources are needed, that relatives say that resources are needed. Is it really true that the Minister has no initiatives in the drawer aimed at solving these serious resource problems in the care of the elderly?
ParlaMint-DK_20171114145540	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114145542	I can only say one more time to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen: we have really given a great deal of money to solve some problems precisely by means of the dignity billion. Imagine that every year that dignity billionaire comes out to the municipalities, and it is gratifying to see that they also use it for more staff. 86% of that money is being spent on staff, and it is good to know that they can prioritize them on the shift for which they now believe there is a lack of resources.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114145615	Thank you, Minister. There are no more entries for short remarks. Then we start with the rapporteur's line, and the first rapporteur is Mr Cryer. Claus Larsen-Jensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114145647	Thank you. As the Social Democrat rapporteur on this matter, Astrid Krag, is ill, I shall give her rapporteur's speech. First of all, I would like to thank the Enhedslisten for the motion for a resolution, which puts a very important topic on the agenda, namely the help we give to our old people, who are too weak to take care of themselves at home and therefore live in nursing homes. As rapporteur for the elderly, I have had the privilege of visiting many nursing homes. Here I have met committed leaders and employees who work hard every day to give the elderly a dignified care and care. And I've met older people who are happy and satisfied with the help they get. This is true in many nursing homes, but unfortunately not everywhere. The reality is that there is a strong running out there and also too strong. Six out of ten employees in nursing homes find that the standards have deteriorated, that they have had fewer colleagues and they are absolutely right. Since Lars Løkke Rasmussen became Prime Minister, according to statistics from Denmark, there have been 2,300 fewer to care for the elderly, while the number of older people has increased. This is not a boost to the care of the elderly, on the contrary. The government and the Minister for the Elderly pride themselves on the money they send to the elderly, but at the same time with re-prioritisation contributions and efficiency programmes, money has been withdrawn from the municipalities. You give with one hand and you go with the other. In this way we will not get better standards in nursing homes, and the Social Democratic Party agrees with the Enhedslisten's proposers that we have to ensure better standards, so that there are enough staff to give the elderly in nursing homes the help they need so that no one should lie alone in their bed and call for help without being heard, without anyone having time to help with toilet visits or with a soothing stroke over the cheek. Although we in the Social Democratic Party share the wish of the proposers for better standards in nursing homes, we do not entirely agree on the way to do so. We share the concern that in some places there are far too few employees during the night hours, and also about the consequences it risks having for the safety of residents and employees. But we do not believe that the solution is rigid minimum standards in the night shift. It must be possible for the shift schedules to be organised locally according to the specific housing composition. The proposal for at least two staff members with relevant training and experience in the night shift risks leading to a deterioration in day-time staffing and thus a deterioration in day-time care and social activities, which is of great importance to the quality of life of residents. Social democracy will lift up the care of the elderly, and we have three goals for how we will make improvements: we will have more community, less loneliness; we will have proper food that tastes and smells good; and finally we will have more time for care and care. As the first step in this direction, we have proposed to allocate 500 million. kr. in the Finance Act for next year for better standards in the care of the elderly. Most in nursing homes today are very weakened, and a lot of people suffer from dementia. They need time, for presence, for caring. It requires better standards, but it must be up to them locally out there to decide where the standards should be raised. Better standards do not only do so; we must also ensure that the foundations are in order and that we do not continue with the cuts that have been made in the time of the present government. According to the AE Council, this would mean that by 2025 there would be a shortage of some 16,000 full-time employees in the public sector. We can afford better welfare if we want to. Social democracy puts welfare first, and we would rather spend the money on better standards in the care of the elderly than on so much else, but not in a way that details the planning of shifts in nursing homes, as proposed. In addition, the first part of the motion for a resolution has been overtaken by the wage-pool agreement we have just concluded on enhanced supervision of social and care quality in nursing homes. Here it will come to light if the standards in a nursing home result in inadequate care and care for the residents. That is why the Social Democrats cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114150120	There are two brief comments, so I would like to ask the rapporteur to stand still. Although one only reads to the original rapporteur, one must also be dressed to be able to answer. The first, with a brief comment, is Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114150133	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I understand that the Social Democrats share the ambition that we have in the Left, namely that we should have a dignified care for the elderly for all our elderly. However, I have some doubts when I hear the rapporteur say that social democracy puts welfare first. How does that relate to the fact that when you had the power of government yourself just a few years ago, you cut 3 billion? kr. in the community service framework?
ParlaMint-DK_20171114150205	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114150207	I think it should be remembered that we inherited government power at a time when there had actually been an economic crisis and there was a need for economic clean-up. The situation today is totally different in economic terms in this country. Today, the government believes there is money for tax relief. We have the view that we would rather spend the money on, among other things. care for the elderly. However, in relation to the specific proposal, I would like to stress that what we attach importance to is that we do not make a central route, but that we make sure that we are left to them, in a decentralised manner, in relation to the municipalities and also in the nursing homes, to make the proper guard planning. We don't really think the Folketing should use the government for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114150247	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114150251	Thank you. I just still need answers as to why the Social Democratic Party cut 3 billion. kr. in the municipal service framework, if you put welfare first? It is not difficult to answer, it is a very simple question.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114150300	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114150302	In other words, it is easy to answer, but the store must be linked when inheriting an economic crisis that needs to be cleaned up and the situation is different today. There is no need to repeat it further, because that is the context.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114150316	The next brief remark is Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114150319	I am well aware that the rapporteur is not normally the rapporteur for the elderly, so it is mostly just a comment to correct what I see as a misunderstanding. The rapporteur said that if you go in and define that there must be at least two in a night shift in a nursing home, you risk taking them away from the staff during the daytime. However, it is clear from the proposal that it must be financed, that there must be more staff at night. It is clear that if you say new rules without adding money, the rapporteur is quite right that this is a risk. But we stress that it must be financed, it is clear, and we also point out some ideas as to where funding could be found; for example, it could be financed. be the room for manoeuvre, which was meant to be used to improve our welfare. So I would just like to take that into account in the debate: that it is quite essential for us that more staff should, of course, be accompanied, so as to avoid precisely the problem highlighted by the rapporteur in his speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114150418	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114150420	That doesn't change the basics. What is really being done with the proposal is that there should be detailed planning, right down to the individual nursing home. If you listen to what, among other things. The President of the Social Democratic Party, Mrs Mette Frederiksen, says, among other things, that we really want some of that influence to be decentralized and given it back to the people who manage these things locally. This proposal goes in exactly the opposite direction, and that is what we are dealing with, and that is why we reject the proposal. It has nothing to do with whether more resources and more manpower are needed, it is another story in this context. I am well aware that this is the context for you in the proposal you have put forward, but our explanatory statement is the one I am giving here.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114150505	The questioner asks his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114150508	Now the rapporteur used several reasons, but leave it at that. With regard to the discussion on detailed planning, I would like to ask: does the rapporteur also believe that it is detailed planning that we in the Folketing have defined a class ratio in the public schools? It's legislation that goes in and hits every single primary school class in this country. After all, we have done so because we believe that there must be minimum standards for how many students you have to put in a class. The elderly are different today, understood in that there are no minimum standards. The municipalities can get away with anything. We have seen it with 42 residents on a night shift, we have also seen an example of 60 residents on a night shift, and that is from what we want to go in and lay a minimum standard. Then the rapporteur says that we are in detail, there were others who said that we are going in and making schedules, but that is a huge exaggeration of what the proposal is about. It is just as it is in primary school, namely to go in and lay a minimum standard for: how poor can it be?
ParlaMint-DK_20171114150603	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114150605	It is clear that one can of course go in and do it in relation to a rights-based thing. But the question is, in this area, whether you do it best by legislation or whether you will actually be able to do it by another organization and other methods around locality. In other words, it is also generally a discussion about whether we have regulated too much in other contexts in order to make things work locally. That's what we're saying.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114150631	Thank you to the rapporteur, there are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114150642	Thank you. I had actually written a speech which was such a very meticulous review of the proposal, I had such a little of those system glasses on. And then when I read it through, I thought, what you wrote there was a lot of christiansborg. So I chose to write it in a little more ordinary Danish. We do not have many opportunities to discuss the care of the elderly here at Christiansborg, so you have to seize the opportunity when you get it. Thanks to Enhedslisten for raising this hugely important debate about what norms we offer the oldest in our society. For the norms are what define first and last how good an elderly care we offer the elders in our country. There are a lot of ideas that are, you might say, cheaper than doing something about the norms and lying on the tables around. Much has been said about debureaucratisation. It must be my claim that there is not so much bureaucracy in Denmark that if you canceled everything, everything would just be good. We have also talked a lot about management, and it is true that good management makes a difference. But even the best general can't win a battle if he doesn't have any soldiers, and in the same way the best nursing home manager can't provide proper care without employees to deliver it. Recently, this issue has been very much in the public debate. The TrygFonden wrote that some of the things that the Danes are most nervous about yes, indeed what they are most nervous about is that there is no proper and dignified care for the elderly when they grow old. And Denmark's Radio came so soon after and showed that this was not a completely unfounded fear. There were some places where the standards were so miserable that we could not talk about proper action towards our elderly. We must take this seriously as Parliament. When a demented citizen gets up at night and is confused and runs around the hallways and wakes up the other residents, there must be an employee who can take this demented citizen in his hand and talk things through, calm down the huts so that he can return to his bed again, and so he should not resort to medication or any other way of handling it. You don't have to choose whether you want to go up in the morning or you want to go up for dinner. This is not a dignified way to treat people. When sick leave among our staff in the care of the elderly is so high, it is not because we have some lazy employees who take sick days because they don't want to meet at work. Then it is more likely that the pressure of work has become so enormous that you can no longer keep up out there and you can't see that the skill you provide is as good as the one you would like to deliver to these people. The older generation has created a country that has gone from that inlaid water was not a matter of course, and where the thing about going hungry to bed was something that happened to a lot of Danes, to the fantastic welfare society we have today in Denmark, and which is probably one of the best societies in the world you can possibly live in. That effort compels respect and makes it necessary for us, as politicians, to pay back and ensure that, with the enormous labor that has been put to the kingdom, we must expect that we can live with peace and with dignity in the last few days. The concrete proposal highlights a very important issue of norms. There are some challenges that have also been mentioned about this, about whether you should just say two employees on the night shift or whether you should arrange it in another way. That will not make me simply reject this proposal in advance, because it is possible to correct it in a committee procedure, so we will land it where it should be. There is also something about funding that one might well say is a little cheap. This is something we can take, and we must discuss it instead of just rejecting it immediately. But for the elderly to have a boost, we are in complete agreement with the Enhedslisten in.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114151143	There is one for a brief remark. Mrs. Stine Brix, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114151148	Then I can start by thanking the Danish People's Party for a positive reception. I am happy to discuss both funding and concrete form, but I think it is positive that the Danish People's Party both recognises the problem I missed with several of the other rapporteurs, but would also like to agree with this idea that we too, Christiansborg, are helping to define what level of service you can actually meet. I would like to hear from the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party about the experience we have gained from the fact that, for example, people from in here. put money off for a rock map and then afterwards see that there are municipalities where that rock map again disappears. We also see examples of the fact that when money is set aside for concrete initiatives to improve the lives of the elderly, the money disappears into bureaucracy in the municipalities. It is my idea that if we sometimes also think of a interplay between Christiansborg and the municipalities, then we can avoid some of those situations, i.e. by clearly defining what needs to be delivered at least, so that we can at least say that it is not indefensible to the elderly. So what do you think about thinking like that?
ParlaMint-DK_20171114151256	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114151258	In the Danish People's Party we do not have any fine feelings about municipal autonomy. We are not afraid to go closer and together with the municipalities help them on the right path. We have a very ingenious system with regard to the provision of welfare in Denmark with municipalities that are governed and have different economics. There are many things that make it a difficult task, but just because something is difficult doesn't mean that you shouldn't try.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114151323	The next brief remark is Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114151330	Thank you. And thank you for a dazzling speech from the Danish People's Party. I just have to ask 'cause I got a little bit unsure about what the rapporteur really thinks: is it the position of the Danish People's Party that we should have statutory standards in nursing homes, so that we support the proposal here? Or is it the position of the Danish People's Party that one, for example, is that one. Does local government support the motion for a resolution here?
ParlaMint-DK_20171114151400	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114151402	It depends a lot on how to set these standards. Because it is true that if you just immediately say that the number is 2 then, as several others have said, it can be a problem in relation to large nursing homes might experience a decline, or vice versa in relation to small nursing homes being closed because they would then not be able to run around. However, it seems to me that there is no such obscene thing about going in and saying that some kind of stair model might provide a guide for the municipalities: here and no longer.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114151437	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114151440	A stair model? This sounds exciting, and we are happy to discuss it on the part of the Left too, but one could just choose to clarify the announcement in, for example. the service law to ensure that the legislation in force is complied with. Could this be a viable path for the Danish People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20171114151457	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114151459	All roads leading to better care for the elderly are roads that the Danish People's Party is willing to go down.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114151506	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments right now. The next rapporteur is Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114151526	First of all, I would like to thank the Enhedslisten for presenting the motion for a resolution on standards in care for the elderly. This is a great opportunity for us in the Left to debate care for the elderly, and not least what lies behind the Left's ambition that all the elderly should have a dignified care and the necessary care. We were in this Chamber six months ago discussing a similar proposal from the SF, and here we are again. In a week's time, we will all have to go to the polls for the municipal elections and each one of us will cross the line with the politician who we think is best at caring for our children and ensuring good staffing standards in kindergartens and crèches, ensuring good schools with the right teachers' capacities and, above all, ensuring decent care for the elderly with the right staffing standards and the right staffing skills in our nursing homes. Because regardless of which institution we have our day-to-day routines, whether it is a day-to-day crèche, a school or a nursing home, yes, the municipal council is ultimately responsible for the fact that the standards are in order and the competences of the people who care for both children and the elderly are in order. That is what we call municipal self-government, and there is no doubt on the part of the Left: we fully support municipal self-government. That is also why we cannot support the Enhedslisten resolution. I would like to repeat that in the Left we support municipal autonomy and I see no reason why we at Christiansborg should dictate or organise what setup should be on the staff side of each municipality. Municipalities are different, and so are the needs of the citizens. What we need to do is to ensure that municipalities have good opportunities to create dignified care for the elderly, and we do so, among other things. by ensuring that there is money on municipal budgets, so there is money to prioritise. That is exactly what this government has done, unlike the previous government, which cut 3 billion. kr. in the service framework of the municipalities. I am very aware that according to the Services Act, municipalities must provide the necessary assistance, care and care to older citizens, and that this must be done on the basis of a concrete and individual assessment of the needs of citizens. You cannot unite citizens, nor should you standardise care, as the Enhedslisten proposes. For there are great variations in the standards, both at the municipality level and at the nursing home level out there in the municipality of Denmark. A survey on the staffing in the country's nursing home, which VIVE has carried out for the Elders Case and FOA, shows, among other things, that an average night shift has 20.4 residents. According to the survey, in some nursing homes there are 1 night shift to 6 residents, while in other places 1 night shift is responsible for up to 42 residents. There are also differences from municipality to municipality. In some municipalities there is on average 1 night shift to 12 residents, and in other municipalities there are up to 34.2 residents for 1 night shift. Is that a problem? Maybe, maybe not, because it all depends on the local conditions. I cannot make it clear enough: the municipal council must, of course, give priority to the dignity of all elderly people and the essential care they need. When we on the Left, together with the parties behind the Finance Act, prioritised an extra billion kroner for the elderly area, the dignity billion euro, it was, among other things, because it was clear to us that, after the previous Social Democratic government, which Enhedslisten supported, there was a huge gap, one might almost call it, in the municipal budgets. It had been cramped years of minus growth with Helle Thorning-Schmidt at the helm. We in the Left will do better. Therefore, the municipalities are now getting more money. Yeah, they've actually got $1 billion. since 2015 through the Finance Act, and in this way we can ensure welfare and we can raise budgets so that there is money for dignified care for the elderly. Fortunately, the municipalities have welcomed the dignity billionaire. The money has been spent wisely, yes, in fact, the vast majority of money is spent on warm hands. In 2016, 66 percent went on. of the funds for recruitment. In 2017, it's 86%. The Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of Let me give you a few examples of how the money was spent in 2016 and 2017. In Odense, for example, you have... from nurses and pharmacists to a dietist and a social professional employee, while in Aarhus Municipality funds have been allocated to additional staff in the care centres as well as to the upgrading of nurses in nursing homes both evening and night. A short time ago we read in the press that 54 per cent. of the Danes are concerned about the care that they can expect to receive when one day they can no longer take care of themselves. This cannot be thought out by the Danes after years of minus growth in the municipalities, as I mentioned earlier. As I mentioned earlier, we are in full swing, yes, I would almost call it a restoration of the area of the elderly. And when we prioritize funds for rock maps, so that older people can revisit the street of childhood or go for a walk in the forest, when we prioritise funds for renovation or restoration of nursing home kitchens, so that elderly people can again smell pork roast and meatballs and fried pork with parsley sauce in the corridors of the Danish nursing homes, or prioritize the means to strengthen free choice, so that home-grown elderly people e.g. can order food from the local butcher and put together the menu itself, yes, it is because a dignified care for the elderly is about much more than what security staff are at work at any given time. Skillful care for the elderly is, of course, also about the right skills and resources at the right times, but it is therefore the local authorities and the individual managements who have the necessary local knowledge to decide when and how best to ensure that employees can provide the best care and at the same time ensure that citizens also receive the necessary care for the elderly. I hear the President-in-Office and would just like to stress in the end that the Left cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114152150	Thank you. And it is fully inscribed for short remarks. The first is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114152155	Thank you. I would like to stress that in the SF we also very much like municipal self-government and would also like to give priority to it. But now that the rapporteur highlights all of the millions and billions of people here who have priority for the elderly in the recovery plan of the Left and the Government, I just wonder: does the rapporteur agree with me that we are getting more and more citizens over 80 years of age? the number has actually increased by 2.4 per cent from 2016 alone. kr., including dignity billions and rock card schemes?
ParlaMint-DK_20171114152239	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114152240	I fully agree that demographic development is going the way of increasing older people in Denmark, as is the case in many other parts of the world. So there's nothing strange about that. Everyone must have a decent care for the elderly, and we must ensure that. I am not aware of the figures presented here by the SF rapporteur, but what I can at least say is that under this government, in the municipalities as a whole, there is more priority for care for the elderly than under the former Social Democratic government, which the SF supported.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114152316	The questioner with his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114152316-2	We also know that the problem will only increase over the next few years. And now we are here to try to solve it, while demographic development actually means more and more older people, and from 2020 there will even be a great many more older people, also over 80 years of age. Does the rapporteur not also agree that if we are to continue to provide decent care for the elderly, we also need to provide the necessary resources?
ParlaMint-DK_20171114152344	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114152345	I fully agree that we must give priority to dignified care for the elderly, and that is why, among other things, we are here. has given priority to the dignity billion, i.e. 1 billion. kr. extra to the municipalities every year under the Finance Act. I would also like to say that I fully agree with the fact that there are increasing numbers of older people. But we cannot, as the rapporteur tries, create a 1:1 relationship, because the truth is that the elderly are healthier today; they are more mobile and feel better than the elderly of the past. So even if there are more older ones, they are not quite as bad as in the past, either physically or mentally. And therefore, the economic need will not correspond to a 1:1 boost either.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114152434	The next brief remark is Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114152437	Thank you. In his speech, the rapporteur made a great deal of use of local self-government. However, I would just remind you that what is the greatest threat to local self-government is the extremely tight economic governance, which the Left Party in particular has led. This means, of course, that what the rapporteur hails as municipal autonomy is extremely amputated. And in relation to the speech made by the rapporteur that you can go out and vote for the local politician who will give priority to a certain level of standards, this is an extremely limited option. In addition, when rules have been introduced in certain areas, such as agriculture, agriculture, agriculture and the environment. elementary school, which I think is wise, and there are no minimum standards at all in the area of the elderly, means, of course, that the de facto deterioration we are seeing in the area of the elderly is very much what we are seeing in the area of the elderly. And I think that is just part of the discussion about municipal self-government. What is being discussed in the vast majority of municipalities is not how to improve it, but how to reduce it. That is why I think it is extremely important that, if we are to be able to face up to the elderly who have built up our welfare society and to say that they must of course have dignified care for the elderly, we also have to go in and say that there is a lower limit to how poor it can be. And that is why I think it is a very obvious question to ask the rapporteur: is it okay when 1 night shift is to take care of 42 residents in a nursing home? Is that okay?
ParlaMint-DK_20171114152603	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114152605	I think it is quite all right for the individual municipal councils and the individual nursing homes to look at what it is for residents, what the care needs are, what the care needs are, and that you then both organise how many employees there should be, but also go in and see what the skills are for the employees to have. What is it, for example? for welfare technology aids located in the individual nursing homes? I fully share the point of departure that the rapporteurs of Enhedslisten, SF, Dansk Folkeparti and Social Democratic Party have had here on the platform, namely that we must provide our older citizens with a caring and dignified care for the elderly. But I just have to remind the Enhedslisten again that it was the previous government that cut 3 billion. kr. in the community service framework, and the previous government was, after all, the Enhedslisten's parliamentary basis. And somewhere I'm a little relieved that Enhedslisten has now woken up and suddenly wants to give priority to dignified care for the elderly, because we have spent the last few years fighting to set aside funds for the Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114152711	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114152712	The latter, I think, was just a ridiculous remark, if I am to be honest, so I can just let that slip away, i.e. that we should not have been concerned about the elderly in the past. Then I think the rapporteur has an extremely short memory. A few years ago, we had a very, very harsh arming with the previous government to go in and ensure a minimum level. However, the rapporteur did a classic rhetorical trick when I asked if it was okay for one person to be responsible for 42 residents, because then the rapporteur replied: that is okay. And then she answered something completely different. It's such a good classic rhetorical trick. So I would like to ask the rapporteur again: does the rapporteur think that it is okay for you as an employee to be responsible for up to 42 residents? Is this dignified care for the elderly?
ParlaMint-DK_20171114152759	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114152800	I simply do not understand why the rapporteur is suddenly being so pissed off just because I mention that it was the Enhedslisten that was parliamentary basis for the government that cut 3 billion. kr. in the service framework of the municipalities. In fact, I think it is okay for the individual nursing homes, the management and the municipal councils together to find out what level there should be for dignified care for the elderly. And we have just given 1 billion priority. kr. extra through the dignity billionaire, and we have tied five criteria in the tail of the dignity billionaire to ask the municipalities to reflect on what a worthy care of the elderly is in the individual municipality, in the individual nursing homes. After all, we have also called on the municipal council to enter into dialogue with, for example, the city council. Older The cause and other actors, so that we ensure that it is precisely a dignified care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114152855	There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, Mrs May-Britt Kattrup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114152907	Thank you. I think that the ideas behind this resolution are very positive. We all want the elderly to have proper and dignified care with time for the individual, and unfortunately we have seen examples that care has absolutely not been good enough. Fortunately, poor care is more in the media than in reality, but that does not change the fact that there are clearly places that need to be much better. In this context, it is important that we share knowledge from the good places so that everywhere can be good places. Therefore, the Minister is also on a tour of the country's municipalities, among others. to gather knowledge and good experiences that can be shared with other nursing homes so that all nursing homes can become good nursing homes. Some of the bad conditions we have heard about are that there are far too few employees at night to take care of the residents. The question is, what is the cause? The reason seems to be that municipalities have different priorities and different plans. According to Elders The case's studies, there is an average rating of 2.9 residents per year. employee, but it varies from 1.1 residents per year. employee to 5.3 residents on a day shift on weekdays, and on night shifts it varies from 6 residents and up to 42 residents. There is also a large difference in the composition of staff between social and health assistants, social and health workers, nurses, physiotherapists and ergotherapists, and under 13%. the differences can be explained by the composition and needs of the residents. So what's the rest of the explanation? There is evidence that it is planning and prioritising in the individual municipality. So I do not think that we should sit in here at Christiansborg and make watch plans for the individual nursing home. It is the municipalities and the individual nursing homes which are closest to the citizens and which best know how the task should be planned. Municipalities and nursing homes must draw up a schedule to ensure optimal conditions for employees and residents. We have municipal autonomy, which I believe we must respect, and then we must expect the municipalities to respect the older citizens as well and to ensure that they receive proper and dignified care. When you have 1.1 residents per person in some places. employee, it may be because one has carefully considered that it is necessary, but it may also be that one might be able to make a different distribution and get a higher manning on the night shift. But it is the municipality and the assessment of the individual nursing home. We should not go to Christiansborg and set minimum standards. Now I know that Mrs Stine Brix has just said that at least two night shifts are not the same as at least two night shifts. I don't really see the difference. For me, it is a minimum standard and minimum standards can easily have the opposite effect. Where it is already doing well and better than any minimum standard would indicate, there is a risk that service and quality will be reduced to a new minimum standard. The Liberal Alliance does not support the proposal, and I have promised to welcome it from the Conservative People's Party and to say that they do not support it either.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114153224	There is one for a brief remark. Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114153229	Thank you. It is a little in line with the fact that I heard the rapporteur start by saying that the problems of care for the elderly are more widespread in the media than in reality. Is it the rapporteur's view that the reports that have been read in the media have been blown up? And does the rapporteur therefore say that the situation in the care of the elderly in itself is okay and that the conditions in the nursing homes are generally good?
ParlaMint-DK_20171114153258	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114153300	I am not saying that the stories we see in the media are blown up at all. What I'm just saying is that in the media, we only see those stories that are bad examples. We don't see all the good nursing homes. I have been out in several nursing homes where the employees have been for many years, where the residents and the employees are happy and where I myself wanted to be. So there are very good nursing homes around, but we don't see them on television. The people we watch on television are the bad examples. This does not mean that we should not do anything to avoid the bad examples, because we should only have good nursing homes. And what I want so much is that we share knowledge about all the places that are good, so share the knowledge about why they can do well and what they are doing differently, so that we can learn from it and transfer it to the other nursing homes.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114153348	There are no more short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur. The next speaker is the rapporteur for the alternative, Mrs Pernille Schnoor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114153359	Thank you. In the alternative, we have no doubt that there is a need in many places for better conditions in the care of the elderly. Unfortunately, we have seen several examples of this in the media. Several studies also indicate that many elderly people do not receive the necessary help and that care staff do not have enough resources to provide the necessary assistance. The difference in care across the country is also remarkably great. For example: On average, the nursing staff in Holbæk are alone with 34 residents per year. night shift on the weekend opposite in Assens, where on a corresponding shift you stand alone with about 12 residents. These are just a few examples, and unfortunately there are several examples that are not being done well enough. That is why we also think it is a sympathetic proposal that Enhedslisten has made. It is also gratifying that Enhedslisten wants to create the opportunity to add 560 million. kr. to care for the elderly. The question then is whether it is enough, and not least how the funds are best used. In the alternative, we therefore agree that there is a problem, but I would like to make a few suggestions as to why we do not agree with the solution in the form of minimum standards. In the alternative, we would like to free the municipalities, the institutions and the employees. This means that we must safeguard the resource framework of the institutions, and it must be a framework that enables them to meet our expectations of giving our oldest generations a care that offers security and care, and not least time. But we do not want to regulate in detail. We believe that quality is best developed on the basis of the municipal conditions that exist, for example. the composition of the population of a municipality. We also believe that quality is about seeing the needs of the individual, the individual elderly, in dialogue with the elderly. That need is not necessarily the same for everyone. That is why, in principle, we are opposed to excessive political and economic governance of the municipalities, for example. In relation to care for the elderly. We believe that we in Christiansborg must provide the right framework for the care of the elderly, but at the same time we do not want to run the institutions and local authorities in detail, and we are afraid that this can be done with motion for a resolution No. B 3. If, for example, there are too strict requirements for minimum standards, what has been said by several speakers tends to become a standard which locks the institutions to use some staff resources in a way that they would not necessarily themselves professionally decide to use if they had been allowed to have the same resources on their own. At the same time, we can also fear that a requirement for minimum standards will create unnecessary bureaucracy, a bureaucracy with which we already know the institutions are struggling very hard today. We therefore propose that resources should instead be allocated to care for the elderly and that it should be possible for nursing staff to organise work flexibly according to local needs and the needs of individual residents, so that professional assessments are not at risk, because we have decided politically that it must always be in a certain way. Finally, I believe that all of us in this Chamber want the best of our oldest generations and the residents of the nursing homes. As a rounding-off, I can sum up: the alternative is that there are certain resource problems in the care of the elderly, which creates challenges. We do not want firm norms, but instead we want us in this Chamber to have confidence in and respect for the professionalism of employees and managers and for their ability to use the allocated resources in a meaningful way. We want care for the elderly, which creates the quality and care and presence that our older citizens deserve to have meaningful care for the elderly, with confidence, involvement and participation. That is why we cannot vote in favour of B 3.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114153835	Thank you. There is one for a brief remark. Mrs. Stine Brix, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114153841	I would like to thank the alternative for at least supporting the provision of money in the area, because I agree entirely with the need for this. However, I should like to comment on this fundamental debate on whether to go in and lay a minimum level here. What the rapporteur says surprises me a little, as I know, the alternative supports the introduction of minimum standards in day-care institutions. We would therefore like to introduce minimum standards in day-care institutions, which I think would be right, very wise, because what we are seeing right now is certainly not in order and at the same time has rules that apply in the area of primary education, but we will not say anything about what should apply in the area of the elderly. It is simply the case that, in a situation where the municipalities are so tightly controlled, it is the elderly who pay the price. And that is what we are already seeing: there is no lower limit to how poor conditions can be offered to the elderly either in nursing homes or in home care. That is what we want to address, and that is why we want to say that there is a limit or that there should be a limit to how poor it must be. So I would like to ask why it is that you think it is fine to do so in one area, but not in the area of the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114153951	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114153953	It has been a very difficult discussion for us in our group, I would be honest to say, because, as I say in my speech, we recognise that there are challenges in the municipal councils around finding enough money to do so for both children and the elderly, as the people elected to the municipal council would like. I myself have been in the position of negotiating a budget agreement for six years and have been struggling with whether it is the elderly that should be taken away or the children. And that is the reality of the people who will be voted in here on the 21st. If we tie it too tight in here from Christiansborg, it is a challenge that those elected here on the 21st are left with in the municipalities. What decisions can they make if we bind them from here on their hands and feet, both politically and economically? So we want those who will be voted in here on 21st to have the resources of the economy, in other words how they will distribute it. There may be differences in whether it is Furesø Municipality or whether it is in Fjerritslev or in Faaborg there is a difference between the citizens you have in the municipality; there is a difference between the type of institutions there are, etc. That is why, in the area of children and the elderly, we will not be talking about minimum standards when it comes to deciding them here at Christiansborg. But we do not think that we should introduce minimum standards in some municipal councils before Christiansborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114154142	Does the author wish to speak on the second brief point?
ParlaMint-DK_20171114154146	I fully recognize the picture drawn up by the rapporteur of what is real in the municipalities: that you have to sit and choose between cutting down on one or the other area. And this is, of course, due to the extremely tight framework laid down by the government on the economy of the municipalities. Apart from the fact that there is no lower limit to what must be offered to the elderly, another problem for the elderly is that it is a group that does not shout so loudly when they are affected to the same extent. There may be children's families sometimes a little stronger. I think that is another good argument for going in and saying that there must be a limit. Then I would like to say to the rapporteur, to the second point, that we should not be dealing with detail, that I agree with that, and I really do not think the proposal does either. There is a large room to prioritize how the standards should be. But there is an absolutely lower limit, that you must not be alone on the night shift because it is too dangerous for both residents and employees. Otherwise, however, the proposal is that there should be sufficient staffing so that you can meet the needs that exist. It is, of course, precisely an opportunity for you to be able to assess by local authority what is sufficient in relation to the residents you have in the municipality.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114154253	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114154255	I think, of course, that we should be very careful to ensure that there are not completely indecent conditions for the elderly, for example. in connection with the manning on night shifts. However, I and our group in the Alternative still believe that we should not have minimum standards that we should decide here from Christiansborg. As I said before, minimum standards or minimum standards can be introduced in a single municipal council if you think you need them. But there is a difference between me standing in here at Christiansborg and putting something on all the municipalities, or whether in a locality you choose to introduce certain norms during a certain period when you think it is needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114154349	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Zenia Stampe, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114154401	Thank you. I am today a substitute for Marlene Borst Hansen, but that is why I can try to answer questions in the best possible way if there are such ones. We agree with Enhedslisten that the municipalities are responsible for nursing homes and that it is also the municipalities that are responsible for ensuring staffing in nursing homes, so that the dignity and need of support and help and opportunity for self-determination are met. We also agree with Enhedslisten that there are municipalities and nursing homes that do better than others, and that the municipalities where we hear, for example, about elderly people who have to wait a long time to change diapers, or older people who have to sit a long time in the toilet, because the caretaker has to run to something acute, or older people who do not get out of bed until far up the morning, simply do not do it well enough. It's not okay in a welfare society. Of course it isn't that and that.But there are plenty of good nursing homes in Denmark • many, many places where residents feel well and confidently helped. And, of course, work must be done to ensure that all nursing homes can provide residents with the help, support and security that each person needs, but we do not think that this is best done with the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution, even though we recognise the intention behind the proposal. The first point in the proposal to ensure sufficient staffing is that the resident does not have a waiting period, we think it is an illusion, although it is very well-intentioned and everyone would like it to be so or could be so. But no matter how high the standards we have in a nursing home, it cannot be ensured that the residents will never experience waiting time. There will always be situations where many residents need help at the same time, and therefore some will sometimes have to wait even if we are upgrading to the level that Enhedslisten is proposing here. The second point in the proposal is that there must always be at least two staff members with relevant training and experience on night shifts. The fact that there are always two in the night shift ensures in our eyes virtually nothing. There are very small nursing homes where one is on guard and there are very large nursing homes where two will be everything, far too little. We may be afraid that it would be possible to see that some municipalities might downgrade the manning at night to two, where they may today have three. All in all, we have radical sympathy for Enhedslisten's proposal, and we share the intention that all residents of nursing homes should experience sufficient help, support and security. But we do not believe that it is these proposals from the Enhedslisten that solve it. That is why we cannot support the motion for a resolution. That was the speech I had been given, and of course I have been listening. It is not my rapporteurship, and it is always a bit exciting to talk about another rapporteurship, because you might see it a little more in a helicopter perspective. I believe in many ways that we could have had a similar debate in the field of children, psychiatry and so on. etc., and that is of course because our welfare in many areas is under pressure. With regard to the positions expressed, I may well believe that the Danish People's Party could find the money it needs. For the Danish People's Party does not mind to downgrade anything else, if it were to be the children or some other groups; I think perhaps the Danish People's Party would have the will to do so. On the other hand, I have a little difficulty in imagining that SF and Enhedslisten, for which I have a great deal of sympathy, would be able to identify where to find this money. Now I know that they have indicated this in this, but then you could ask whether there are no other areas that could also benefit from 1⁄2 billion. kr. In other words, what about all the very large savings in education that were made in vocational schools, upper secondary education, etc. On the outskirts? What about the psychiatry? Don't you want it to get a boost too? What about those doctors who right now write: It could have been me, too, because they experience being so pressured that they are afraid to make mistakes? After all, it is our entire public sector that is hard, hard pressed. If you could give money for this, would you also be able to find money for all the other areas that are in at least as much need of a boost? After all, it is one of the times a year that we can be delighted to be a party that actually goes out and says that we are in favour of reform. It is usually very unpopular to do so because it seems that we are the kind of people who want to hurt people. But the reason why we do it and we take the beatings when we say that now people have to stay a little longer on the labour market. So not those who are worn out, but those like us who may well be able to work a little longer than we had otherwise planned is because we saw those who can stand here a few times a year and say: We actually think that if we had the 90 mandates, we could find more money for, among other things. This area. It's one of those times a year where you can say it. I don't know how many come along and how many reward us for that, I don't think that's gonna happen. But it is my meta-reflection when I stand and listen to all those who want to prioritise and who want to find the money, but who are not the ones who have the majority and ultimately have to make the priorities. Therefore, it may be a little a free round, while those who are then responsible have all sorts of nice extras to say: we cannot actually find the money. However, with the professional speech by my specialist rapporteur and the meta-reflections, I have to say that unfortunately we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114154931	You're allowed to make double speeches in here as long as you keep your time. There are two brief comments and the first is Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114154938	To the rapporteur's own personal reflection, I can tell you that we have put forward a welfare initiative which gives priority to how we think we should do it now in terms of giving priority to welfare, and that is one of the elements here. The children's area has also been mentioned, the primary school has also been mentioned, health has also been mentioned, and psychiatry, which I personally consider to be one of the most important areas, has also been mentioned. It is clear that it is an obligation to make proposals and we are making every effort to indicate where we think we should find the money. We are also in favour of reforms, but just some others, other than the Radical Left. We basically believe that there are some who have everything, too much money for themselves. I also find it very strange that you get a significantly lower tax if you earn your money by speculating in shares than by working. In this way, of course, funding can be combined in various ways. So we are making a great deal of use of presenting proposals for financing, and we have of course done so in this proposal, and we have also thought about what we would like to give priority to. So if you have an interest in it, you can orient yourself to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114155047	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114155049	Yes, and it then lands on a major ideological discussion, which I think is important and which is in the course of this debate. Because we all want to have better relations, and I think we can also have better relations within the framework we have. In addition, however, there is also a great deal of discussion. In other words, the funding proposal that Enhedslisten has is not reforms where people get to work a little more, and then they contribute more to the treasury. That's raising the tax. And the reason why we do not like it, at least not in all areas, is not because we think it is a pity for people that they pay taxes. Well, we all think it's good that you pay taxes; you pay to the community, and we all get something out of it. But what we are afraid of is that we are hitting the economy that is the basis of our welfare society. It's not like we're all just sitting at home with a certain amount of money, and then we have to decide how much of that money we're gonna give to the community. It is also about the fact that if we raise taxes too much, there may be some companies that do not bother to place themselves in Denmark, and then they place themselves elsewhere. So there is a balance there: well, there are limits to how much we can just raise the tax to finance the welfare promise that I think we all really want. This is, of course, the great ideological debate. And compared to the many, many promises Enhedslisten is out to give, I would say that it may well be that Enhedslisten can point to a tax reform, but I am so afraid that we are losing the tax revenue on less growth because companies then move out or people will work less.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114155217	Then that is the questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114155220	We have mentioned two different ways in which this particular proposal could be financed. One is through treasure, where we point to among other things. The wealth tax, which has recently been relaxed. The second thing you could point out is the room for manoeuvre that has arisen and that has been created because they said to the Danes: If we increase your retirement age, we do so because you must then be sure that there is a well-being that is right for you. It was not a reform that we agreed with, but I think that once the welfare of the Danes has deteriorated, among other things. pensions, allowances and everything else with the promise that they should be sure that there was a proper welfare, then at least we must ensure that that money is actually spent on welfare. Unfortunately, that is not what the government wants today. But this is one of the methods on our part to ensure that the promise made to the Danes is also kept.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114155313	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114155315	I understand that, and yet sometimes I just think it's too easy. Well, in my very young days I actually think I was thinking about voting on the Enhedslisten, but I also think it's too easy. For who has created this room for manoeuvre? Who's been out taking all the beatings for those reforms? It's us. We also want it to be spent on welfare, but we also want it to be spent on turning back the savings in education. And what about the children's area, etc. etc.? It should not be a secret that we would like the scope to be even greater, because we think that there are so many gaps around in welfare. This is an area, but there are a lot of other areas. And that is why Radicals continue to say: we can make a little more reforms, which are even socially responsible, because they do not affect those whom we want to give more welfare, not less welfare. So that's why it's gonna be a bigger priority discussion. But we believe that this is neither the solution nor a responsible way of prioritising state funds.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114155415	There's one more with a brief remark. Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114155419	Thank you. One gets such a little impression that the rapporteur actually thinks that that welfare is just pure cost it all. I'm thinking maybe it's an investment too. In other words, a prerequisite for us still to be able to do our job is that our old people should also be cared for when it is needed, just as I fully agree with the rapporteur that education and children need our attention. Yes, there are actually very, very many welfare areas that need our attention. That is why I think it is a little interesting to talk about priorities and, above all, funding, because I think that the rapporteur really believes that the latest business package, which facilitates the tax on beer and soft drinks and, for that matter, provides tax incentives for stock speculation for better citizenship, is a major priority in relation to care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114155509	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114155511	After all, we are in this business package because we have been able to make it greener with more green energy, and we are actually very proud of that. And then there are some things that we have had to live with; it is a mixed country trade. All sorts of things are different with tax reductions, and then there is something about green energy. There is also something about small things being good and small food producers being allowed to sell to the retail trade without having to pay a lot of checks and so on. It's all good from the ocean. Sometimes you choose to enter into such an agreement because you think it's getting better by being in it than knowing we're not in it. We think this agreement has become significant There are some thistles, yes, but there is a green bet which I do not think would have been there at all if we had not been there. Then I would like to ask whether I just see welfare as an expense, say: No, well-being is also often an investment in prevention, etc., but that is why that is why we also go out and take a beating for reforms, that is, because we think it is a cost that is worth it all. But there is nothing negative about saying that an area is an expense. When you accept that it is an expense, but still want to give it priority, it is because it is really important. It is so easy to always say that it is not an expense because it is really an investment. This is why we go out and take a beating to make reforms, so that we actually get more money for welfare, among other things. to the welfare of the elderly as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114155633	I just have such a small call for us to stay a little closer to the subject than to the major priorities reforms. But then it is the questioner with the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114155642	It is just a simple question: whether or not it was a green agreement or what made the Radicals choose to be in the agreement agree that with the new business package there is less revenue for the state, which means that it will be harder to give priority to precisely the area of the elderly or, for that matter, other areas of welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114155708	But it's more money for green conversion, green energy. That's why we're here. It's an area where it's actually been really hard to get more money from the government, and finally it happened, finally I think in some way that it was because they thought it was really funny that we were in a settlement and that S wasn't in it. I don't really know why we got through so much. But we are actually really happy with that agreement and think that it looks quite different or ended up quite different than it would have done if we had not been there. We are quite convinced of that, and that is one of them. Because of this green bet, which I think SF also thinks is important. Now it's just the elderly area we're discussing. However, if we were to discuss with SF's environmental rapporteur, it could be that there was a greater recognition that this agreement actually makes a huge difference in relation to the whole green transition.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114155759	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then I would like to reiterate my appeal that we should stick a little closer to the resolution we are considering before I give the floor to the next rapporteur, Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114155813	Thank you. I think that you should both be deaf and blind if you deny that there is a lack of resources in the care of the elderly. It is pure mathematics: More and more older, but no more money, which means that more people must be shared less, or that the employees must achieve relatively more at the same time. Add to this that older people are getting much older, that a number of health tasks have moved from the regions to the municipalities and that it has become more difficult to get searched for care for the elderly, which means that the elderly, who receive help, are considerably more care-intensive. And then I have not mentioned the enormous bureaucracy caused by outbiddings and bankruptcies etc. If that is not enough, you can just listen to the elderly themselves, their relatives, the employees, reading newspapers or watching TV. In recent years, unfortunately, we have witnessed far too many tragic examples of care failure. This is also the reason why last year the SF proposed that budgets in the care of the elderly should be regulated as we get more and more elderly people. Unfortunately, at the time there was no support from the Enhedslisten or from others either. Nevertheless, I would like to thank the Enhedslisten for putting the care of the elderly back on the agenda. In SF we are still worried about the standards in care for the elderly, and it is still SF's view that the challenges in care for the elderly are more than those in night shifts. It is also wrong with the standards in the evening shift, where often fewer employees have to deal with relatively more citizens than is the case in the day shift, where resources are also often scarce. Yes, in fact, it is now quite normal that there are periods during which there are only one or too few employees at work. Elders The case last week had an inventory which showed the development of older people's visitation to care for the elderly, and despite the good effects of rehabilitation, it is a fact that efforts are hardly proportional to the fact that significantly fewer older citizens can be searched for help at all, and significantly fewer elderly people today are offered a care home. Actually, I know some of them. I therefore fully agree with the Elders case when they more than suggest that the development can be attributed not only to the success of rehabilitation, but also to the fact that it has become difficult to get searched. That development also worries me, just as I am concerned that the changes in staff groups, bustle, disease, etc. As a consequence, many citizens experience that there are many different helpers in their homes, making it difficult to ensure the important continuity. I fully agree with Enhedslisten that alone work should be abolished. As former department president of the FOA in Aarhus, alone work has also had my full attention. Unfortunately, I have also noted in this work that there is some flexibility in the definition of alone work. For example, it is not defined as alone work if you have the opportunity to call for help either from home care or from another department, and I think it is a field of action on which both the union and the Labour Inspectorate still have a great deal of focus. In short, there is plenty to be done in the area of care for the elderly. Standards in night shifts are one of them in some places, while elsewhere there are other guards where there are enough resources. I am also listening to the fact that there is little difficulty in obtaining a majority in favour of the proposal, so I hope that Enhedslisten himself will propose a committee procedure, possibly with a view to a report in which we can jointly formulate questions and respond to the challenge of care for the elderly. Because I think the proposal deserves further discussion, and I think it is extremely important that we insist that there should be sufficient resources in the care of the elderly. I think everything in the sun and moon and stars shows that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114160210	There is one for a brief comment, so the rapporteur must just stand still. Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114160214	Thank you. The rapporteur says that no more money is being spent on care for the elderly, but that is wrong. There are billions added to the care of the elderly. And by the way, Denmark is one of the countries in the world that spends the most money in the public sector, so if it was only money, we had the world's best service. But what it is all about is how, but I would like to ask the older rapporteur: how much money does the rapporteur think should be provided before there is enough?
ParlaMint-DK_20171114160254	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114160254-2	The rapporteur believes that exactly as much money should be provided as there are more and more elderly people. Well, it's not really that hard. In relation to care for the elderly, we know what demographic development is like, and we also know that things are going really, really fast, especially with older people over 80 years of age. I fully agree with the Elders' case that this appropriation is not in line with the rehabilitation effort and that this means that there will be more elderly people who need a nursing home but who do not get it and who are not actually even being searched for a nursing home. So if you only present the budgets in relation to demographic development, it costs something, yes, but it will be a prerequisite for not seeing cuts, as you do in 81 out of 98 municipalities in 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114160344	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114160347	That is precisely why billions are added all the time with one measure after another. So there's gonna be And we have to say that it's not necessary to add in the ratio of 1:1. What the Ministry of Finance says when they state is that they have not made any reservations about technological developments and smarter workflows and that they only take into account partially healthy ageing. So money is being added all the time, as there are more older people. So I do not quite understand what the rapporteur is calling for.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114160427	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114160429	The rapporteur calls for resources appropriate to demographic development. And I am also listening to the constant argument that 1:1 in relation to demographic development should not be necessary in the light of technological developments and I can help Mrs May-Britt Kattrup to add rehabilitation. However, the fact is that we also have relatively more elderly people who are getting very old, which means that the proportion of older people over 80 years of age is going to explode. That's really, really good, because it paints a picture of a good life, but it just means that we have exposed the pressure in relation to the care of the elderly considerably. So regardless of how we turn it around, calculations show that despite the dignity billionaire and despite the rock card schemes you have 2.4 per cent in the care of the elderly. Less resources in 2017 than in 2016. And that, in my view, is a cut.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114160527	Thank you to the rapporteur. The last rapporteur for this resolution is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114160538	Thank you. First of all, thank you for the debate. Thank you to Parliament's rapporteurs and to the Minister for spending an hour here in my good company on our very good proposals. The reason for the proposal is the more topical than I thought when I sat and worked on it this summer, because quite recently a large new study by VIVE, which stands for the Danish Center for Social Science, commissioned by the FOA and the Elders Case, landed precisely by what manning at the Danish care centres actually looks like. The report was also discussed in the daily press. Among other things, you could... hear that examples have been found where an employee in a nursing home should be responsible for as many as 42 residents at night. There are also municipalities where it is an average, i.e. where it is the norm that you are responsible for 35 residents at night. I am basically of the opinion that we owe our elders and employees a decent and dignified treatment, and I would like to emphasise, because I found this difficult for several of my colleagues, that this cannot be given when you are responsible for as many residents as we see some people have today. Even if you are dedicated as an employee, not even if you are really working hard and running around, it is possible to give a worthy care to so many at once. It goes without saying that this is neither right for the employees nor right for the elderly. There is no time to help those who live there, for example. well can go to the bathroom itself if someone comes and supports them. That is why we see that they are instead put on a diaper. You can't go camping those who need help with camping, but can't turn themselves in bed. They're gonna have to wait even if it hurts. And then it could be really dangerous if, for example, there were... Suddenly, one who becomes acutely ill or an elderly dement who leaves the nursing home. It just needs one more serious incident before it's completely reckless. That is why we have tabled this motion for a resolution. We want to address the issue of ensuring better staffing in nursing homes. The proposal consists of two elements. Firstly, we go straight in and say that it is not justifiable to work alone in a nursing home. There must be two so that we can avoid an employee not knowing how to deal with a very acute situation. Secondly, we go in and write in the Service Act that the municipalities must ensure that there is sufficient staffing to meet citizens' needs for care and support without waiting. It is a wording that exists in Swedish legislation. It has, moreover, been created on the basis of a long series of scandals in the Swedish nursing homes, so that the supervision that exists in our nursing homes can take a look at the staff when they are out to assess whether it is a good way to organise the staffing and, at the very least, to have a nursing home on here, so that they can go in and take a position directly on the staffing. It is clear that this also presupposes that we add some money. It is of no use that we simply adopt a change of law and then do nothing more about it. What we are proposing quite specifically is that 550 million be set aside. kr., so you can hire 1,400 new employees at the nursing homes. It is on the basis of some calculations that we have been given at Bureau 2000, which says that some 700 employees need to be used to avoid work alone and about 700 employees to lift the standards in the other guards, that is, during the day and in the evening. Why, then, will we not only add the money but also make a real change in the law? That has been part of the discussion here today. And there are a number of reasons for this. Firstly, I think that we have bad experience of simply adding money without defining really firm requirements for the municipalities. Yes, what has happened to older billions and with clipping cards etc.? Part of the money has never gone to the elderly, they have gone to bureaucracy because the Ministry has had to use a lot of statements about what you have actually spent the money on. We have also seen examples that the municipalities have chosen to use the money for something quite different. They could do what they wanted. We have also seen many examples of the fact that, after a few years, when the funds were no longer earmarked, then these rights which the elderly had otherwise been promised disappeared. So by committing the municipalities a little more through the legislation, we can also ensure that the money actually goes to what is intended. Then we have had a major discussion on minimum rights. Is that a good idea or a bad idea? I would like to make an observation that I have made. A few years ago we had a really big discussion about whether to go in and lay a minimum level of how poor home care can be. We said from the Enhedslisten side that we thought that if you have assessed from the municipality that citizens did not, for example. they should at least be entitled to at least two baths a week. That is quite little, I think, but at least two baths a week should be the absolute minimum. What happened today? Today it is the norm in the municipalities that baths only take place once a week. It is a deterioration that has happened if we just compare it to two years ago. Today, six out of ten municipalities offer baths only once a week. Two years ago it was four out of ten municipalities. The trend is strong, strongly downward, and this also underlines what the SF rapporteur said a moment ago, namely that there is real deterioration in our home care. This happens because there is no lower limit to how little welfare we must offer the elderly. It is contrary, as I have said in the debate here today, to the fact that we define a lower limit on how many people, for example. must be put into a primary school class, but the older area is characterized by no lower limit. We even have a verdict, the Køgedome we call it, which states that the municipality must, with reference to a poor economy, reduce the level of service offered to the elderly. It is in this context, in other words the very tight economy of the municipalities and the fact that there is no lower limit, that the discussion about securing a lower limit is relevant. I would also like to say, which I think is important to get into the debate here, that we have been in close dialogue with both the Elders Case, the Alzheimer's Association and the FOA on this proposal. We can invite them to a debate in committee and hear what they think, but there are positive statements all around. In fact, it is both the Elders Case and the Alzheimer's Association that have drawn my attention to the way in which this has been formulated in Sweden and which has highlighted it as a good model. So I would say that it is not important to me that it should be exactly the wording we have made. It is perhaps also an answer to the comments of both the Danish People's Party and the Socialist People's Party here. Of course, we would very much like to discuss whether we could do it better if we could formulate it differently. But it is very, very important to me that we go in and take a stand with the situation that we have in the nursing homes today, which is certainly not in order, neither to employees nor to residents. We have to go in and ensure a better standard, and there I think we also have a responsibility here from Christiansborg. Unfortunately, the discussion at Christiansborg is not so much about how we ensure more employees for the elderly. It is very much about how we should reduce taxes, especially on the part of the government, so that in some way we benefit those who pay top taxes and have plenty for themselves, and I think that is simply a completely crazy priority for our common money, not least in view of the fact that the money that you sit and want to distribute has been created on the basis of a promise that now you should reduce the retirement age of the Danes, now you should reduce the daily allowance, because you would ensure that we were able to grow older in the future, because you wanted to ensure that there was a decent welfare, and then you are using the money for a completely different purpose. If it's not a vow, I don't know what it is. But thank you again for the debate. I would like to follow the request made by the SF that we discuss this further in committee, so I look forward to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114161423	There are just two inscriptions to short remarks, and the first is Mr. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114161430	Thank you. And thank you for your kindness in looking at whether you can change some of the wordings so that we can go a step further with this agenda. There is no opposition from the Danish People's Party to spending the money needed to ensure proper and dignified care for the elderly. We have a challenge in that, although we might have given a boost, such with money, it would be difficult to find someone who could accept them, so to speak. So there is simply a huge shortage of SOSU assistants who could go in and fill out these jobs that we really want to create. Has the rapporteur, in connection with his work here, thought about how to get more people to choose the SOSU subject?
ParlaMint-DK_20171114161518	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114161520	In fact, I believe that the conditions in the care of the elderly are closely linked to the possibility of recruiting. What I hear time and time again from the employees who are in the care of the elderly is that when you cannot deliver a job you think is professionally sound • e.g. When your timetables are not linked, because it simply says that you have to be physically the next place, even if you are not finished where you are, there is not a great incentive to choose that profession. So the working conditions that we offer, that is to say, that you can do a good job professionally, I think are absolutely essential to attracting more people. Then, of course, it will be a discussion that quickly bites itself in the tail, because how do we solve it when the employees are not there today? I think a very important part of the solution is to turn up how many internships there are, because there is a limit to that. And I also think it is very important that we have social clauses so that the many private home help companies that are are obliged to take pupils. That would be a way to turn it up. But this is related to what conditions we offer not only professionally but also, of course, the terms and conditions we offer to the employees in the care of the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114161633	Then it's Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114161639	Thank you. First of all, I have a very clear question. Mrs Stine Brix lacks even more detailed management of the municipalities and even more earmarked money, and would like to have a governance down to the smallest detail. And I am not really aware whether Enhedslisten wants the abolition of municipal self-government. So that's one question. The second question is whether Mrs Stine Brix believes that it is only a question of adding more money and not how it is spent out there. As I said, Denmark is one of the countries in the world that spends the most money in public spending, and does Mrs Stine Brix not think that we could also have the world's best service if it was only the number of funds involved?
ParlaMint-DK_20171114161728	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114161730	It was a very long sentence that was formulated, so I am not sure I got it entirely. But there were two questions. One was: Does Enhedslisten want to abolish municipal autonomy? And then there was a lot of controversy before that question, and I choose to ignore that. No, we don't. Then there was another question which was: is it only a question of providing more resources for better care for the elderly? No, it is not only, but it is very, very important that there are the employees who need to be. And the problem we are looking at at the nursing homes right now is that there is not the number of employees that should be. But it is clear that the working conditions of the employees are of course also very important. If, for example, If a great many documentation tasks or a completely unnecessary control of the work you do, then of course you spend your time in a bad way. However, this does not change the fact that when you as an employee stand alone with responsibility for up to 42 citizens, enough control and documentation can be abolished, but it is still not a proper care that you can provide, no matter how skilled you as an employee are.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114161831	The questioner with the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114161834	Does Mrs Stine Brix have any impression that a nursing home in a municipality can do very well, while another nursing home in the same municipality with the same financial framework cannot do just as well? Could the way you do it have something to say, so that it is not just about how many resources are allocated?
ParlaMint-DK_20171114161857	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114161858	Yes, of course it makes an impression. These are always interesting considerations. There may be good explanations for that, for example. It is a fact that there are some considerably heavier citizens in one nursing home compared to another. Of course it makes an impression, but I do not quite understand what the purpose of the question in this context is, because it does not change the fact that there is a shortage of employees in general. We can see that in statements. When there is a single employee alone responsible for 35 residents at all of Gladsaxe Municipality's nursing homes, we have a serious problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114161940	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has any brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171114161956	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 15 November 2017 at 10:00 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
