ParlaMint-DK_20170516130022	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516130034	I give the floor to the Prime Minister for an introductory statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516130035	Thank you for that, President. After all, this is the first hour of question time since we reached a broad political agreement on a new housing tax system, which is why I would really like to start by expressing my thanks to those parties who have been involved in taking responsibility for a very, very large matter, namely the security of homeowners for many years to come. It is actually quite strong, I think, that at Christiansborg, where there are many things that share in everyday life, we can build bridges and create a sustainable solution to such an important policy area. It is perhaps something unique about the Danish people's rule that we sometimes forget and which I would therefore like to draw forward here for a start, because politics is often about focusing on differences and disagreements, but we actually have a strong tradition of building bridges. We have that in Christiansborg, and we have that in society as such. I just came from the first meeting of the Disruption Council, which is another example of this unique Danish tradition that we work together across. It was a good meeting which reflects the broad composition of the partnership: ministers, employees' representatives, businesses, entrepreneurs, young people, because the challenges we face are of course affecting all of us, and that is why we need to find the answers together. We have a good starting point in Denmark, and our ambition is to ensure that Denmark is also one of the richest countries when we come up with a generation. The work we have started runs until 2018, but it is crucial for me that it is not a jar of jelly, but rather a catalyst for ideas and political debate. Therefore, the government will also play out along the way with proposals and in this way use the partnership as a dynamic framework where we can continuously discuss both challenges and solutions. I look forward to this discussion on how Denmark will move forward into the future, also being conducted here in the Folketing, when we are to implement together the policy that will lead Denmark into the future. The housing agreement is a good example of how we can actually find things that collect and not always focus only on what shares. At this meeting we have just held, there was also a general consensus that Denmark has a good starting point, and we have this, among other things, because we have many strengths, and one of the most important is the trust we have in each other and our public institutions. This may not always be what is left of when you follow the public debate, but the fact is that if you make an international comparison, the Danes are among the most trusting in relation to the public sector. After all, it is a trust that it has taken generations to build, but which can be broken down in a split second, and if that happens, the foundations of our common welfare society crumble. It is therefore also very serious that changing governments and numerous ministers from my own party, the Social Democrats, Radicals and the SF have not managed to create the framework for the smooth functioning of the SKAT. That's why the government has kr. and approx. A thousand more years' work than today. We do this because the best way to restore confidence in SKAT is to make SKAT work. Does this mean that the mistakes of the past have to be forgotten? No, it does not, and if a majority in the Folketing wants a commission of inquiry, the government will, of course, look at it constructively. The tax minister also promised that yesterday, and I would like to reiterate that commitment here today. That is why the Minister of Taxation will now call the parties for a debate, so that, at the same time, I try to stress the word at the same time, because I think it is absolutely crucial that we do not now choose to have so much focus in the rearview mirror that we forget to look out the windshield. It is thus out of the windshield that the future is being created and the confidence that has been challenged must be rebuilt, and it is now best done by ensuring that SKAT will function optimally again. That's the key to regaining confidence.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516130537	Thank you, Prime Minister. We now move on to questions from the party leaders. The questioner and Prime Minister both have up to 2 minutes' speaking time. Two follow-up questions follow, each with one minute's speaking time for the questioner and the Prime Minister. It is first Mrs Mette Frederiksen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516130555	Thank you. I would also very much like to be allowed to sign for a very good course on the property tax and I was going to say, not least, the result, which I think we are all well aware of and which creates the necessary security for the country's homeowners, but also for the tenants. That is why it is an agreement which, in my view, is long-lasting and which, fortunately, also reflected both a social and geographical balance when the negotiations were completed and an agreement was in place. That's really good. It is clear that it is a committee of inquiry by SKAT that I would like to discuss with the Prime Minister today. This is one of the greatest political scandals we are dealing with today, and it is for several reasons. On the one hand, we have missed out on money, we could have used for some better purposes, our hospitals, our children and our elderly, and on the other hand, the crisis in the SKAT basically questions the authorities' ability to manage our tax dollars in a reassuring way. I think that many people are left and outraged that things could go so wrong, and not least on TV 2 we have also been able to see people living under the sun of the south while avoiding tax payments in Denmark. One question remains: how could things go as wrong as it has done? That is why we, together with the Danish People's Party, have proposed to the government a commission of inquiry, and all parties around the government agree that this is the right way to do it, which is why it is also good that the government has now signed up, so that we can get started on this work, find out what has happened, how it could happen, and how we will ensure against a similar issue later. I also think it is important that the Commission gets its work started and that it can work thoroughly, objectively, of course substantially, but also quickly, so that we can get a conclusion on which we can work, and so I would really like to ask the Prime Minister today about the more formal part of the commission of inquiry's establishment, namely: could we agree today that we are going to start work now, so that the basis for the Commission can be in place before the summer recess, preferably on 1 July, so that the Commission can be set up and can start its important, important work?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516130828	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516130829	Thank you. Yeah, for my sake, no alarm. What is going to happen now, in order to respond very directly to what is being asked is that the tax minister will call the parties to the meeting, and it will take place as soon as possible, and then it is all about reaching an agreement on what kind of mandate we have to equip this commission with. And if it can be brought to a conclusion quickly, it will be only good.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516130903	Here you go, Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516130905	It is very good and, of course, I have noted with great interest today that the country's current Finance Minister, who has been a tax minister at an earlier stage, makes it very clear that the recovery issue has probably been subject to some errors, so that in our view it will be a natural place to start work, namely on the whole issue of recovery. Then, of course, I also note with interest that the Prime Minister emphasizes the importance of looking out of the windshield, and that is usually the best window to look out of when you are on your way forward. I believe that the prerequisite for us to be able to make the right decisions in the future is for us to learn more about what has happened and, if possible, also to be given responsibility for this. Now that we are looking out of the windshield, we can see that the recovery package we have agreed on is probably not enough with the massive problems that are in and around SKAT and that the current employees certainly cannot carry out this great task themselves. That is why we have specifically proposed the creation of four new tax centres, one thousand new employees, to ensure that recovery works, that arrears are paid, combat social dumping and, moreover, ensure that everyone pays the tax they have to pay fairly. Is that something the government would also like to enter into discussions on?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516131030	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516131032	Yes, we should certainly not have any political conflict about whether we agree that people have to pay the tax they have to pay. That is the basic point of view of me and the government, and it has been through and through. That's also why the government, pretty soon after we joined, started to restore the SKAT. After all, it was a task that had been there for three or four years, in which it was not acted upon, that is to say, under the previous government, but we are acting on it. This is a strong priority in the Financial Law Agreement we have drawn up and we are open to a continued discussion on whether more needs to be done. This is not something I am inventing on the ground; it is the reaction that has also been from the Minister for Taxation in relation to Mrs Mette Frederiksen's party and other parties who have pointed it out. So we are happy to have a discussion on that. If there is a need for further strengthening beyond what we have already decided, then the question is where exactly it should be and how it should be financed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516131138	Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516131140	Well, it's gonna pass over the cane and rocks today. The Commission of Inquiry has now been set up. I also hear assurances from the government that if we have not jointly allocated enough resources to restore the SKAT, that is something that can be agreed. Following on from the agreement we have just made on housing tax, we managed to find funding, so it is not possible to do this very, very important task too. Now that we are on the clarification issues and while we are still going out there looking through the windshield, I understand that the government is planning a tax reform alongside the discussion about SKAT. That is why I just have a very specific and actually simple question to clarify here in the end: whether top tax reductions will be included in the proposal for a tax reform that the government will be putting forward later this year.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516131232	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516131233	Yes, I can confirm that they will, of course. It is very clear from the government base that the government has the ambition that work should pay off. And we think that there are two places in our tax system where we have some challenges. We have this in relation to people with small incomes, where the benefits of working stopped at what can be obtained in public support, are, in the view of the government, too small and where we would like to give a hand in helping people with small incomes. Then we also have a challenge at the other end of the scale in relation to highly specialised labour. We are in fact in agreement on this, because that is why we, among others, are here. have invented a researcher tax scheme in which we quite openly say that in order to attract the talented international labour force, we need to set up the system in such a way that they have to pay less taxes than those that were already, otherwise we cannot attract them. It is, in fact, a joint demonstration that there is a challenge here, so we would like to address that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516131347	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516131352	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his introductory remarks. I would like to acknowledge very positively the Prime Minister's attitude in relation to the cover-up of the conditions in the SKAT. I think it is a good thing that the government welcomes the call for a tax commission and will call for negotiations quickly so that we can clarify how we can get it together. I would also like to give a very strong undertaking right away that we will be helping everything we can to ensure that looking back at what has happened, not in any way, to the extent that we are master of it at all, will affect the reconstruction of the SKAT in any negative way. We need the recovery plan on SKAT that we have agreed on to continue, and we also need tax workers who are actually doing a good job every day also to know that we appreciate it and that we will appreciate it also in the practical work we have. So it is certainly a commitment from here on. What I would then like to ask as a question is not at all about SKAT, because that is what we do well, but is actually about border controls. I think the Prime Minister is aware that we in the Danish People's Party are happy with border controls, and this is because the European Commission made a call to Denmark to start phasing out border controls within the next six months, while at the same time obtaining permission for border controls for six more months. The Greek EU Commissioner for Border Control is a Greek who is the EU Commissioner for border control, and that is in itself thought-provoking, but that is what the ■ said when the extension came: this will be the last extension. I repeat: this will be the last extension. It is described that he also gestured to an extent so that no one should be in doubt that this was the position of the European Commission. That is why I would like to use today's Question Time to get an assurance from the Prime Minister that, in the next six months, of course, there will be no dismantling of the Danish border control, despite the fact that the European Commission has wanted us to start to drop border controls over the next six months.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516131608	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516131609	Thank you. The government has decided to extend border controls, and we do, because we feel it is necessary, and that is how it will be. I cannot stand here and decide what will happen after the six months have passed. One might have hoped that it was not necessary to maintain the readiness we have, but it is now a rather slender hope if one can put it that way. Because we have the political assessment that, as long as the external borders of the European Union are not under control, we need to maintain border controls. That is why my answer is such that I would like us to phase out border controls, because that would be a reflection of the fact that external borders have been managed. My own forecast, including when looking at the current influx into Italy, is that it is hardly a very realistic scenario within such a six-month horizon. So the conclusion here is that we have the border controls we have, and we have them for the time being at least for the next six months.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516131707	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516131708	I know that there are some who live in such a fatamorgana, such a naive thought that in the most ideal and idealistic of all worlds we are all such people who wander among each other and are well, and everything is joy and old. And then we can have open borders to perhaps even Africa... so the Middle East and Africa. It could be festive. There are probably some who live with the naive performance, and then we are some others who think that it is probably not realistic to believe that it is going to happen, probably not for future generations either. So if we are to stick to our welfare model, our social model, we may need to have a little control over our borders. I must not overlook the fact that there may also be people in the Prime Minister's party who are a little part of the former group in relation to the discussions on this. But what is important for the Danish People's Party is, of course, that the Prime Minister stands firm that border controls are therefore useful, they are valuable. It seems to be a very important tool when it comes to sending out the message to the outside world that things are in order in Denmark. I also take what the Prime Minister says as an undertaking that border controls will not be phased out in six months' time. But I just have to have it crystal clear cut out that there are no plans either for the six months leading up to November to be reduced to the border controls we know.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516131839	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516131841	The commitment was, of course, in my previous reply, with the tiny reservation that border controls are based on the fact that external borders are not under control. So if there were to be a miracle that suddenly the EU's external borders were to be sorted out, then there would be a new situation. But it's just to make the formal reservation. The situation is that there is no one in my political area who has a view on open borders with Africa, rather the opposite. So what is the whole problem here is that the external borders are not sufficiently controlled. That is also why we see an influx into Italy of an extent that is far too large and that challenges Europe. We have then made safeguards against this in Denmark. By the way, we have done this with great success. That is why we now have the lowest number of asylum seekers we have had for eight years. So we maintain the border controls we have in the design that we have given it, and we do so in these six months, and then we take a position on what will happen next. What I can say is that if the conditions for the removal of border controls are not there, then it is also maintained, and then it is not a question of the six months, then it also has a wider perspective than that. At the same time, Denmark is also participating in the strengthening of the external border, and we ourselves have an external border. We have this at Copenhagen Airport, where we will soon be taking initiatives to strengthen border controls.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516132010	Thank you, Prime Minister. Here you go, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516132013	Thank you for the undertaking, and it is certainly appreciated that the Prime Minister says that in the next six months there will be no dismantling of the Danish border control, and indeed, in fact, it also indicates that he cannot see that the conditions are in place to remove border controls, so that this will happen after November. This is very important. Secondly, I just want to say that I don't know the Prime Minister's characterization of this proximity concept of who the Prime Minister is so close to in the Left and something like that. But it's just that sometimes we get a little confused. When you have a rapporteur, even in the whole area of the European Union, the whole of Europe, who is going to say that the European Union has managed the external borders, I know that it was probably not meant to be that way and that it was a messy interview and that it was pulled back ashore and something like that. But from time to time there are such statements that may give the impression that there are people in the vicinity I thought there were with the Prime Minister who could have the view that external borders are under control, and we do not think that there is. I am glad that I then share that view with the Prime Minister and that we can therefore also have the assurance that border controls will continue. It is useful, it is important, and it is very important also for the Danish People's Party. So I think it has been useful to get these clarifications from the Prime Minister today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516132127	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516132129	Thank you. I have little to add to that, but I am glad that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl is in my own political vicinity. I think that is a good thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516132140	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516132149	Thank you. I would also like to talk about SKAT, as did Mrs Mette Frederiksen. Because there is no doubt that there have been huge problems, it is almost a string of pearls: profit scandals for over 12 billion. kr., non recovery of 80 billion. kr., tax lympies that have not been responded to, cheat with VAT, wrong property assessments, and you can continue. The problem is that it is not such a thing that has suddenly arisen, it is not something that should be a surprise. Already back in 2007, the State auditors warned, and we know from the media and from various trade unions, that the internal warnings from employees and officials have been very, very many. This creates some problems of confidence, as the Prime Minister himself points out. One is trust in the tax system as such and the foundation of our welfare society. I think there are a lot of people who for good reason sit and think why they have to pay their taxes every month if they see rich people in expensive houses and expensive cars do not pay taxes. It is subversive, it is a problem of trust. The second problem of confidence is, of course, that if you do not have something like this investigated, if you do not have a responsibility, then it also undermines confidence in our political and our democratic system, because then it will be such a peace of mind where parties cover one another. That is why I think it is very good that first the Social Democrats and the Danish People's Party changed their attitude and then the government too, to such an extent that it is even they who have proposed it, one must understand. It's really important. What I would like to ask is, firstly, whether the Prime Minister will ensure that it is the full period since the beginning of the 00s and until today that is being examined, so that we also get the cuts that preceded the structural reform. Secondly, I would like to ask whether the Prime Minister will ensure, perhaps even guarantee to all those who sit out there, that it will be a Commission which cannot in any way be blamed for excluding parts of these many, many scandals, but that we will have it all.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516132402	Thank you. Then it's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516132403	Now that there is a desire to look in the rearview mirror, we must make sure that we put up a rear mirror so that we can see everything. That will be my approach to it, it will be the government's approach to it, and we are now discussing it. I do not think that Question Time here today is the most appropriate way to sit and draft a mandate. We'll have a discussion with the tax minister about that. But our starting point will be that we will have a broad mandate. I fully agree with Mrs Pernille Skipper that when we talk about trust, there are the two dimensions: there is confidence in the tax system itself, and there is of course confidence in the political system, and both must be safeguarded. This also means that we will have the nuances, and we will all make every effort to do so. Because when, for example, This picture shows that there are 80 billion. kr. out there, you could pick up, if we just had a well-functioning tax administration, then it's just wrong. It's wrong. It is, of course, the case that the debt which is owed to the tax administration cannot be recovered crown by crown. There are some people out there who owe money to SKAT, who do not have any money that has such low income that we here in the Folketing have adopted some rules that say that we cannot automatically recover them, because we have the view that one should be able to afford to feed one thing to one thing. A lot of the numbers hiding in these 80 billion. kr., which has created a picture of we've just written off, even if we could scratch them in, if we just had some extra tax workers, is money of this category. I am not saying this in order to run from the fact that we have had challenges on the recovery side in any way, and we must look at that in the future, we have already decided that and it is also fair enough that we look at the historical explanation models. But it is of no use that we here in the Folketing contribute to creating a picture that there is only 80 billion. kr. out there, which, if we had a well-functioning tax administration, was in the treasury today, because that is not correct.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516132627	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516132629	On the other hand, I think that we should be careful not to create a picture that it is for 80 billion. kr., there are debts out there with people who can't pay rent. I guess we agree that this is not the case. But, by the way, I admit that there are some people who have so little that they cannot recover the debt. The Prime Minister also spoke a little about it, and I have been following the debate for a long time, and it has been the mantra of the Left to look forward. This has until this morning been the reason why we did not want to set up a commission. The Prime Minister also says that you have the plan from 2015 you can say you didn't actually add extra funds; it cancelled planned savings, and that was a good thing. It was also an important first step. Then came a proposal in August which added some extra staff but lacks the entire control area. In other words, the tax havens and VAT areas will not be added to that proposal. In fact, it is also very few posts when we know that there were 5,000, I think, from 2005 to 2015. Would the Prime Minister not agree that, in order for this trust, which we agree should come back, we must also do enough, provide sufficient resources for SKAT?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516132745	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516132746	Yeah, I'm one hundred percent in agreement with that, and that's also why we've started it. After all, we took over government responsibility in the summer of 2015, after it had been with some others for a four-year period with Mrs Pernille Skipper's party as parliamentary support and basis. Now it is not up to me to ask questions, otherwise it would be exciting to ask Mrs Pernille Skipper what concrete steps were taken during the four-year period to equip staffing and resources in SKAT. We have taken responsibility for this, and we are also prepared to do what is necessary for the future. I think it is important here too A well-functioning SKAT is also about guides, rules simplifications, digital solutions, and that we, for example. Here at Christiansborg, we make some legislation that makes it possible to digitise some of these solutions. So this recovery work, which the tax minister, I think, has very skilfully taken the lead in, has many implications and is not just about norms.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516132903	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516132905	I wish I had much more time, because then I would explain to the Prime Minister about all the proposals that Enhedslisten made under the previous government also to give more staff and resources to SKAT, and that year after year we had it up and that we stood alone with the demand for a Commission study until quite recently. So that's what we're gonna do in another question time. On the explanation that it is not just employees, but that it is also digital solutions that need to be done, I would say: excuse me, is it not a little what has put us in this situation with this fucking fad, so that you just say that there has to be a better IT system, and then you don't have enough staff until you actually have that fantastic IT system that you dream of in your hand? Therefore, one gets such a feeling that when the government is such a little unwilling to actually add the necessary resources to the SKAT, it is also because one has a responsibility. In other words, it was the Prime Minister himself who was behind the structural reform, where the recovery from the municipalities was removed and transferred to SKAT. That was the Minister of Finance and Vice-President of the Left, Mr. Kristian Jensen, who started making savings on the basis of expected efficiency, which never turned out to show up. I also just have to ask: is it because you yourself have something in hand that you do not really dare say: yes, we must have added the extra resources; it was a mistake to remove them?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516133022	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516133023	Well we have, then, it is possible that Enhedslisten has put forward a series of proposals under a previous government which have not been able to get through with that I am not going to make myself a judge of. I can only note that the government I am in charge of has made a recovery plan of 7 billion. kr. and 1,000 new posts. And in an answer to Mrs Mette Frederiksen earlier in this Question Time, I have said that, of course, we are also open to a continuing discussion about whether more and more is needed. I'm just trying to nuance things a little bit, even when you're drawing this picture of faggot on the face. We have on long stretches a well-functioning tax administration. We have, for example. a personal tax equation, which is highly digitised, with which citizens are very satisfied and which makes it easy to self-declare. Well, I'm old enough to remember how to sit and make paper returns, and then you kept in line up at City Hall there some midnight to throw it in a letter slot. Today we can go in and look like ourselves online; we can get our annual statements right away; we can correct and that sort of thing. So before we get a picture of the whole tax administration being one big scandal and that no digitalisation has succeeded at all, I think that should be the nuance. It does not shake the fact that there are challenges. We have taken care of them with our eyes out of the windshield, and I have said here today that we would also like to take a look at the rearview mirror.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516133156	Thank you. Thank you to Mrs Pernille Skipper and the Prime Minister. Then it's mr. Uffe Elbæk, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516133205	Thank you. And thank you to all the good colleagues in the Danish Parliament for the fact that there is now broad support for us to have an independent commission of inquiry set up for the SKAT case. Of course, I'm glad. I take note of the Prime Minister's statement. I hear that Mette Frederiksen says it, I hear that the Danish People's Party says it, I actually hear it all around, and it's really, really nice. I had also raised a number of questions about SKAT. But I will not repeat them, although they are very relevant, because some of my good colleagues have asked those questions. But I would really like to ask: when the Prime Minister sees the case of SKAT next to the whole discussion about the Public Service Act, the whole discussion about the sale of shares in DONG and the distrust which it naturally raises among the population, how does the Prime Minister think that we will bridge that mistrust? I put the question to the Prime Minister as Prime Minister for all of us, because these matters are simply burning the fire for the growing mistrust of us working in here from all the people who have voted for us out there. So what is the Prime Minister's offer on how to restore the confidence of the Danes out there, not only narrowly compared to the SKAT • that is the specific case but also in relation to the discussion about the Publicity Act and the discussion about DONG? What do we do?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516133336	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516133337	I think that is a very good question that everyone should probably ask himself. Because I think the answer has more facets. Much of it is, of course, about taking responsibility for and ensuring that things work. After all, I think that is the most important thing. That's also why we're investing in SKAT. Another part is about being open about the mistakes of the past. A third thing that I think is also important is to ensure that the proportions are taken into account. Because I can think of many scandals that have proved to be successes. Let me just make it concrete: the digital registration. My recollection of the public debate on the digital registration and media coverage of it and I think you can search the archives and get confirmation is that it was scandalous. Because we ran into something that didn't work for a start. It was scandalized. Today we have a perfect digital registration system, which is famous all over the world; which means that in a split second you can manage all the legal documents and that has made it cheaper to shop housing. It works fantastic, it's a huge success. As a regular newspaper reader, will you sit back with an experience that we have a huge success that the world is looking for? You don't want to. If you turn your old newspapers through, you'll see that there's a big scandal. So I think that is why I am saying that we should also ask ourselves that we also have a responsibility here to get the nuances right. That is why I tried to correct Mrs Pernille Skipper earlier with the 80 billion. kr. Because there is such a picture that there is only 80 billion. kr. that has disappeared, and that is not correct. That is where we must be careful about politicians that we do not help to gain confidence in cracking by touring around with too black and white pictures of how the public sector works.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516133545	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516133546	I'm glad to talk about the good things we do, too, that work. It's always good. But what I actually asked about is a very fundamental political process within the last 10 to 15 years. Of course I asked about SKAT, I asked about the Public Service Act, I asked about DONG. This is one of the things I believe and the alternative, at least, has helped to support the growing and marked mistrust between the citizens out there and us in here. I would like to discuss with the Prime Minister another time how we can build a bridge. For that is what we must do, because it is a threat to democracy as such. Of course, some of this is about getting smarter about the mistakes we make. Now we've been discussing SKAT. I usually have such a rule that if you make a mistake, and we all face it, it is the first thing that you need to be able to identify the error, and the second that you want to take responsibility for the part of it that is your own, that you want to learn from it and make it different in the alternative, we have tabled a motion for a resolution last week to set up an independent committee of inquiry. It is our bid that it should cover the whole process. But I would really like to ask the Prime Minister: if it were up to the Prime Minister, what would the terms of reference of such a commission of inquiry actually look like?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516133715	Here you go. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516133716	Yes, that is what we are discussing with the parties. I have said in previous answers here today that when there is a desire to look backwards, we want the rear-view mirror that is set up to be one where you can also see all blind spots and can see it all. We are now discussing this. I'm a little challenged by the fact that some of it, like mr. Uffe Elbæk like scandalizes and says destroys trust, I find it hard to see is scandalous. DONG e.g.: Now Mr. Uffe Elbæk here says DONG is a scandal and asks what we can do about it. In other words, I have seen respect for the decision of the previous government, led by a Social Democratic Finance Minister, to secure some external capital for DONG at a critical time in the company's history. And I do not subscribe to the view that because the action succeeded in the sense that DONG so far came through and has grown and grown strong, then you can go around and say that it was wrong. That is actually an example of something that succeeded in my optics. That is why I would like to repeat the point about including the nuances. This also applies to the Public Service Act. After all, you can do a close study of what kind of public law we have and set it against other countries. Then you'll see that the picture that's being drawn of that there's darklight and closeness is an incorrect picture.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516133841	Here you go, sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516133842	That's why we're nine different parties in here. After all, we look at the cases that were just mentioned here quite differently. My last question is the tradition of faith from our members, and it is on a completely different ball street. After all, it is no secret that the alternative considers it important that we develop democracy, increase transparency and involve citizens. We do it with live streaming of our own group meetings, we do it by asking Members what questions I should ask the Prime Minister we do it in a lot of different ways. Today, the question from a Member who has received the greatest support from all Members is this: what opportunities does the Prime Minister see for further development of democracy in technological development? So, how do we use all the social media platforms to get a much more direct dialogue with the citizens out there, and has the Prime Minister given some thought to how we can bring democracy up to the next level, among other things. By using new technology?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516133947	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516133949	I think that is an exciting question. Perhaps it would be a good thing if Members were asked to take a view of the issue, so that I also got a little inspiration and not just all these interesting questions. First of all, I think that the new technology creates an opportunity for all of us, as citizens of society, to be able to carry out our work as citizens at a more enlightened level. And that is what we have just been talking about, that is to say that we need to have the nuances, and it is perhaps rather paradoxical that at a time when we all really have much more access to information, there may be a tendency for such rapid black and white images to emerge, which are just standing. So, if we are to bring democracy up to the next level, I think that it is, among other things, about opening up the flow of information so that what we act on as voters, decision-makers and school board members around where local democracy unfolds is done on the basis of a knowledge platform and not on the basis of myths. It's supposed to be my spontaneous reflection.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516134055	Thank you. The next one is sir. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516134103	I would also like to start with the Commission of Inquiry which is now coming into the field of taxation, and I would say that I think it is crucial that we get it. Because if such an aura spreads that we parties that have held government responsibility and also been in the Treasury do not want to look in the mirror for fear of what we may see, then I think it will be difficult to restore confidence. That is why I think it is right and proper that we should now have an investigation. After all, we proposed it earlier in relation to the entire tax on dividends, but at that time there was no mood for it. There is now. And that's why we're really positive about it. Perhaps one might also fear that it would develop into such a rather dull struggle, where it was about backwards disclaiming responsibility for what has happened. But I believe that what would increase the public's esteem might perhaps be if we were united in shouldering responsibility for becoming wiser. For it is at least today difficult to stand and not say that something could have been done differently and better since we have ended up where we are. On the other hand, we must jointly take responsibility in the future in order to correct and rebuild and create better systems where it is lacking. I would also like to thank you for the housing tax agreement. I think that if I had been promised on election night that we could make a deal of that caliber, I might have fucked myself a little, because the waves went a little high when it was about the tax freeze and things like that in the election campaign. However, we can sometimes be surprised at the speed with which things are going, and I also believe that in this area we have had a much better system and a much better development than what was left as the impression on the election night. Then I would like to congratulate the Prime Minister on his birthday yesterday. I understood it was the Disruption Council that was allowed to have the pleasure of the celebration. In this context, I just want to ask whether questions about education fill something in the Disruption Council. Because I think it is absolutely crucial that we use education as a lever for all of us, with the Prime Minister's words, to move forward into the future. I am particularly concerned about young people who are currently hanging on the water crust and about whom we are also debating now. After all, the government's initiative in this area seems to want to put an end to quite a lot of educational establishments, and I just want to ask the Prime Minister that question. Is it the answer to the challenges of the future that young people get further to their place of education?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516134334	Here you go. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516134335	Thank you for a constructive play for a question, and thank you for the birthday greeting. And yes, education is going to fill up. We have had a meeting yesterday and today, and we have one more before the summer, and it is very much about trying to get one, you can say, common understanding of what Denmark's position is right now and here, in relation to all the challenges we face. What is the positive scenario of the future that we see before us? And we're going to see that, and I think it's unique and great that from the trade union movement to employers to independent experts there is actually this positive approach to digitalization and automation in such a way as to create an even better Denmark if otherwise we get ready to use it and seize it in the right way. Education will of course be a key word, and it is in several dimensions. It's about lifelong learning. This is also why the government is about to embark on the third trialogue to discuss adult and continuing training with the social partners. It's about our higher education institutions. But then, of course, it is also about getting young people off to a good start. And I'm very, very concerned that over the last 10, 15, 20 years, despite all the efforts, it has not succeeded in breaking the code for how we get the last ones with. The fact that we have in the vicinity of 50,000 young people who, seven years after finishing primary school, do not have a student's hat, a letter or any proper link with the labour market is painful. That's why we've been playing out to clean up the mess of the offer we have. It is not an expression of a desire for centralisation. It is an expression of the need to create a better offer for young people. The government's proposals are based so well on the fact that we have 25 parent institutions around the country, but of course in a form in which these parent institutions have provided education or decentralised institutions. I agree that proximity is also a dimension. So it's an expression of finding a balance between closeness, which is important, and then make sure that we have some sufficiently attractive training opportunities for this group that leaves primary school without being properly dressed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516134603	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516134604	Well, I'm really glad that education fills something in the Disruption Council, because then you can hope that the course may be changed a little. In other words, given the decisions taken during the lifetime of this government, which means that by 2020 an ordinary HF will have to cope with unchanged student numbers for well over 80%. It is not something that smells like a future paved with education, of course, by the budget you had last year. Or when you have created an educational ceiling, even if you are talking about lifelong learning, it is not something that immediately sounds like believing in it when you say yourself that one education is probably not lasting in the future, but that people need more people while at the same time the government is capturing it. But when I am concerned about young people here, it is because it is difficult, when I see the government's initiative, not to come to the conclusion that there are at least too many production schools. As far as they are concerned, there are more than 80 of them today, and as far as I can see from the government's proposals, we have to go down to the 25 institutions and 75 procurement points. That is why I just ask: is it the Prime Minister's view, also from his own experience, about what these young people need from the work that has been done that there are too many production schools in Denmark and that the offers are too close to young people?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516134716	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516134717	It is my experience that it is too uneven an offer that is made out there. There are plenty of offers with quality. There are also some where quality could be better. First of all, I am concerned that the children and young people who are actually leaving primary school with the poorest conditions for moving forward in life are met by the most complicated offers, whereas for those who have acquired the skills we really think all children should have, it is very simple, that is to say it is vocational school, it is high school, it is HTX, it is to find out. So it's like this group, which hasn't got the basic skills in place, that they meet with something very, very diverse. They also meet with a system in which it is unclear who is responsible. Some of it is under state control, something is under local authority, and that is what we want to clean up. That's what it's carried off. We have a strong belief that if the municipalities have a greater responsibility and we can create an offer for this group, namely a high quality offer with a strong youth environment, then we can make some decent bridge building and get them on. This requires a decentralised presence in the country, and I believe that the proposal we have put forward for the debate is based on the fact that there must be about 75 geographical positions out there. It is not that far from the number of production schools we have at present.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516134839	Thank you. Here you go, sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516134842	No, but the problem is where they're supposed to be. Who's going to have more time for school than today? These are the places in the sparsely populated parts of the country where you travel the longest, perhaps an hour and a half, to get to your production school. So my view is that proximity is not just a dimension but the most important dimension; that what you come in a place where there is actually time and resources to relate to the individual is, in fact, far more important than the standardisation that the Prime Minister is proposing. And that is what makes me think that at least, and we will look forward to getting the negotiations going properly, because I do not think that what these young people are missing is standard offers. I think that what some of these young people are missing is a municipality that does not care whether they are 17 or 18 if they are in the middle of a training offer. I think they care that if they need 18 months instead of 12 months in a production school, they can get it if they have finally got the chain going. And all those problems are, after all, some that lie behind in the systems, and that is why I just find it strange to start by saying that we have too many production schools, and that the number should therefore be reduced to something that has been looked upon as 75.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516134957	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516134959	That's not what we're going to say. If closeness was the only quality, did we have to teach everyone home, or what? After all, in life it is about finding some balances, and I fully recognise that the question of geographical distance to one's educational institution and to one's work is important. That is why our initiative is not carried by some wild centralization desire either. But it is also not the case that we have started by saying that the institutions that exist out there must continue to exist. We've started somewhere else. We have asked: what is it that, decades after decades, we have a group of young people who we lose on the floor and who do not move on from primary school? We must take that responsibility on board. This requires greater clarity in the responsibility. That is why we have said that municipalities must play a more decisive role. It also requires that we get more quality into the offers. That's why the government based itself on a committee of experts, because we are listening, also to experts, has said that we have to make a three-track youth offer. So that's the content first, and then it's all about translating it into geography. There is our proposal so that if you are to be able to offer decentralised offers with these three tracks, it would be sensible to organise it in a framework of 25 units or responsibilities, where you can then have decentralized teaching opportunities. We have pointed out 75, but it is of course under discussion, and we look forward to taking the negotiations with the Radical Left as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516135128	Thank you, sir. Morten Østergaard. Thank you, Prime Minister. And then it is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516135137	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the government for being accommodating in making a commission on taxation. That's what's gonna be needed. I believe that what the Danes expect from us politicians is also that we have control of the SKAT and that the tax they actually pay is being used for something sensible. We need to rebuild trust, so I would like to thank you again for that. I look forward to the work on a mandate and so on, because I think it is quite crucial that we in the Danish Parliament should be able to support as widely as possible the content of the Commission. But I would like to talk about some of the things we spend our tax dollars on, which is why I would like to ask the Prime Minister about everyday life in our Danish hospitals. After all, the government is discussing next year's budget with the regions of the country and therefore also money for the country's hospitals. The so-called productivity requirement of 2%. a year at our hospitals has been at a lot of debate • if I have to say so in Jutland recently. Regional presidents, staff groups and patients' associations, yes, almost none of them are involved in our hospitals that have not shouted guardly, and the time has simply run from the current very rigid arithmetic model. It is important to work with our health and, in fact, I believe the Prime Minister and I agree that this is now happening at such a high rate that we risk compromising the quality of treatment, the working environment and, above all, the safety of patients. I believe that there are limits to the speed with which the work on sick people can take place, where you run between the medicine cabinet and the bed and the computer, without at the same time risking increasing the risk of errors and unsustainable working conditions. The reality is that our porters and SOSU assistants, doctors and nurses in our hospitals just cannot physically run faster. I think some of them have left their running shoes with the finance minister to underline that point. I agree to make use of new technology, digital solutions, etc., prevention and better workflows when we need it, but I would like to ask the Prime Minister if he does not agree that time has run from the very rigid requirement of 2%. to the hospitals. Employees cannot run faster and patient safety will be compromised if we continue as we are now.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516135354	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516135355	I do not agree that this is a very rigid demand. If it were so obvious that it was very rich and quite wrong, it is strange that it was maintained in all the years when Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr's party was in government, and moreover also after the SF left the former Socialist-led government, because at that time it was a known mechanism, and there it was not communicated as a rigid thing either. This is not a signal that every hospital department in the country has to run 2%. Faster. It is a challenge to the overall health service that we must constantly look at workflows, we must look at the deployment of new technologies and other things, with the aim of releasing what is equivalent to 2%, which is, moreover, to remain in this area. So it is a mechanism to ensure that there is always a development that I understand, by the way, we agree should be there. When, for example, you're gonna have to do something about it. can use new technology that relieves some manual work processes when you get supercomputers that can help diagnose and relieve some medical work, you get more money. That's what it's all about. And I'm sorry it's being translated into that now all of us have to crunch the running shoes and that the only way to achieve this claim is to run faster or move faster or make the stitches on the surgical wound at a higher speed. This is not the way it was conceived, nor was it the way it was lived out when the SF sat in government.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516135531	Here you go, Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516135533	Thank you for your answer. However, I do not really think that the Prime Minister is responding specifically to the 2% requirement. will be removed or suspended or compensated in the agreement with the regions. In fact, I do not really think there was an answer. Because I do not disagree with the Prime Minister when it comes to using digital solutions. You have robots in some hospitals, but that doesn't mean that the operations are over more quickly or with fewer hands. At Kolding Hospital, where you remove hernia, there are just as many people present in the operating room with the robot, but the point is that the operation and the procedure are much more accurate for the individual patient, but there are no fewer employees present. The Minister for Finance replied last Wednesday in the Parliamentary Chamber to the SF's health rapporteur's question about the work on the 2%. or a new management system, that it is something that will take time and that today he did not have a bid on the end date or on final content. I would therefore like to say that I find it a little confusing what the government's plan is in this very crucial area, not least because it is in the middle of negotiations with the regions. Is it a jam jar that the Minister of Finance is setting up, is it something that the government will find a viable solution to in negotiations with the regions, or should we wait a long time, and will the current system be suspended until a new one is put in place, or is the government just going to move on as if there is nothing wrong?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516135653	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516135655	We never go on like nothing's wrong. On the contrary, we get up every morning and go to work with the ambition to do everything a little better than we did yesterday. That is also what has driven the government's health policy both with the government that is now and with all previous governments. That is also why we are proud that health care has undergone such a positive change as is actually the case, with more patients being treated, with higher chances of survival in relation to serious diseases, etc. And one of the methods of this has been the system which, moreover, was maintained during the four years we had a Social Democratic government in which the SF entered into, namely that in the agreement that the State has with the hospital owners, there is pressure here that we should constantly look at whether the money can last a little longer. And that is the requirement of 2%, which has never been thought of in such a way that it should then be mechanically translated from the hospital owner to the individual employee. After all, it is not a requirement that nurse Hansen and porter Jensen should each run 2%. Faster. It's a system requirement. I am not in a position here today to stand and invent another model that is better, and as long as we do not have another model that is better and that ensures that we get the development that Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr speaks herself into, with digitalisation and development and patient satisfaction and quality in treatment, we naturally maintain what we have if we can get through with the agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516135825	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516135826	I get the feeling that the Prime Minister is having a bad day, because what the Prime Minister is saying is a little half-vaunted. I do not need to know what this is about, but I just want to say that I think it is crucial for patients that they experience that there is more time for them in our hospitals, and they are not experiencing that today. Well, thanks for the answer to that part. I do not think we are getting that part closer today, at least there are indications of that. That is why I would like to devote my last speaking time to something which I know involves a great many students, namely the ceiling on education. Now I am not doing as my colleague in the Alternative, so I am asking so widely, but I am listening a little bit to what the voters are saying. And there are a lot of students who right now have to choose whether to hand in their bachelor's assignment and thus complete their studies, or whether to drop it because they might want to read something else and maybe get better job opportunities with another education and then to avoid being quarantined because of the cash benefits ceiling drop to finish their education. I would like to know what the Prime Minister's advice is to the many students who are exactly in these considerations these days. Should they complete their education, should they rush into other programmes, perhaps with better job opportunities, before they hit the educational ceiling, and how wisely does the Prime Minister assess the education ceiling for students and the ongoing adaptation to a labour market that is very changing in these years?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516135953	The Prime Minister with the last reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516135955	If you are categorized as half-eaten because you do not agree with everything that is being said, the speech I am now making will be really, really suck. We think we have solved the task of adjusting the benefit system. It survived four years with a Social Democratic government with the participation of the SF, but it had some inappropriate things to which we have then adjusted, and we have also responsibly picked up the bill. We have done so by doing what Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr refers to as the educational ceiling, but which is based on the idea that if you take a higher education, an education that the community has paid, then you have to give it a chance before the community pays a new one. That is why my recommendation must be that you take the education you want to take, and then you finish it. It is not always that I agree with Mrs Mette Frederiksen in everything that Mrs Frederiksen says, but here I will choose to quote her directly: 'I think it is actually right and proper. That the day after completion of an education paid by the community, you cannot start another education. I fully agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516140114	Thank you. After that, the Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516140129	Today there are the following reviews: Marie Krarup (DF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 152 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the prohibition of praying rooms in public educational establishments). Mattias Tesfaye (S) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 153 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the accommodation of young married asylum seekers). Mette Frederiksen (S), Kristian Thulesen Dahl (DF), Jakob Ellemann-Jensen (V), Pernille Skipper (EL), Christina Egelund (LA) and Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT), Morten Østergaard (RV), Pia Olsen Dyhr (SF), Mette Abildgaard (KF), Aaja Chemnitz Larsen (IA), Magni Arge (T), Sjúrður Skaale (JF) and Aleqa Hammond (UFG): Request no. F 58 (What can the Prime Minister say about the domestic and foreign policy situation?). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). Members of the Folketing and Marie Krarup (DF) etc. I have been informed that they want to withdraw the following proposals: proposal for a parliamentary resolution banning praying rooms in public educational establishments. B 54). Does anyone wish to include this motion for a resolution? As this is not the case, the motion for a resolution has lapsed. Before we move on, I just need to make sure everyone's here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516140257	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposed amendments for adoption. There are three proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 105 of Bent Bøgsted (DF), Klaus Markussen (V), Laura Lindahl (LA) and Merete Scheelsbeck (KF). The vote is over. In favour of 58 (DF, V, LA, RV and KF), against 48 (S, EL, ALT and SF), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 105 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 103 by Finn Sørensen (EL), Josephine Fock (ALT) and Karsten Hønge (SF) and proposals for adoption no. V 104 of Leif Lahn Jensen (S) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516140415	The debate is primarily concerned with the proposed amendments, and that is Mr Beazley's point of view. Pelle Dragsted, who wishes to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516140441	Thank you, President. I will be brief about this bill, as I expect to speak on the next item on the pension situation of Members of Parliament. I would just like to explain the amendment tabled here by Enhedslisten for the third reading of this proposal. It is about removing the new possibility of a so-called early retirement, which is being introduced with this bill, i.e. an early retirement for ministers. We were actually very happy when we read that some time ago the parties to the agreement had agreed that in future the retirement age of ministers should follow the retirement age. This is something we have been working for for many years. We think it should be a matter of course that, when we change the retirement age for the population at Christiansborg, those rules must of course also apply to ourselves, including those of us who are fortunate enough to become ministers. That is why we were all the more disappointed when it came to the conclusion that the parties to the agreement apparently had such a clever trick introduced at the last minute, which in fact means that a minister will still be able to retire in the future before most other Danes. It is not the kind of early retirement that we know from the rest of society, which is virtually impossible to obtain, because we have to go through one work test after another and run a mess between different authorities. No, this is an optional early retirement, which you can choose freely as you like. This means that you can retire up to 5 years before the retirement age against a minor deduction in your pension. The scheme combined with the very rapid recovery of pension • a minister earns full pension in just 8 years • means that ministers will be able to retire with a really good pension several years before the retirement age. We do not think that is fair. It must be the case that the rules that apply to the rest of the population also apply to us, in other words to the politicians who have adopted them. It is hardly the case, however, that being a politician or a minister is more grueling than many of the jobs that other Danes contest, without being given the opportunity to retire before the retirement age. That is why we have tabled an amendment to the draft law which removes this possibility of so-called early retirement, so that in future ministers will be covered by the same rules on retirement age as ordinary employees in the labour market. You will then still have a very, very lucrative and quickly earned pension, but you cannot raise it until the retirement age.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516140736	Thank you. Then the Minister for Finance has asked to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516140746	I should just like to thank very briefly the broad majority of the Danish Parliament, which supports the changes that make the retirement age that ministers have made in the future equal to what it is in the ordinary labour market. It is precisely an equality with the ordinary labour market, which also applies to the question that Mr. Pelle Dragsted travels on the possibility of early retirement. It is true that in both the ordinary, contractual and civil service labour market there is the possibility of retiring earlier than at the retirement age fixed by the Folketing, against a deduction in its pension. This means, in turn, that you get reduced what you get paid on a regular basis. Since, at the time of age, ministers' pension conditions are not applied for at the time of their retirement but at the time of their retirement, there is also, according to the agreement, the possibility of obtaining an early retirement pension scheme. I would like to make it clear that this is not something extraordinary, it is not something unknown. It's not like it's completely new and we're the only ones who've had the chance to do this before. It is the case that a large number of officials already have the opportunity to do so; it is the case that members of parliament have the opportunity to do so, and it is also the case that a large number of those on collective occupational pension schemes can receive them earlier, against a deduction in the amount paid. So it is an equality which the parties have chosen, also in relation to the possibility of stopping a little earlier on from going into retirement.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516140930	Thank you to the Minister for Finance. There are a few brief comments. First, sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516140935	I think it is very nice of the Minister to call this equality. Because I have an answer from the Minister himself, from the Modernisation Authority, which says something about what this really means for ordinary Danes, i.e. if you have to compare it with a regular labour market pension. Because it is true that a retirement pension can also be withdrawn a few years earlier against a deduction, just as in the future it will be possible as a minister, which is something completely new. That is something new; it is not something we have been able to do before. It's something you put in place with this deal. But what does that mean for your pension? Well, according to what I'm holding here, let's say. say that you go 3 years before the retirement age, then it will mean for a bricklayer, a warehouse worker or a SOSU or a taxi driver that they have to give 20 per cent. of their pension in the rest of their retirement. And what does that mean for a minister? Yeah, they're gonna have to give up 6%. Is that equality, sir? Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516141035	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516141038	In my first comment here, I said very precisely that it is equality in relation to the age of retirement. I stressed that it is not a question of equal treatment in terms of income and, in relation to deductions, it is the case that we follow the rules that apply to civil servants. It shall be determined by agreement. In the case of general occupational pensions, the amount of the deduction is fixed actuarially on the basis of the savings in the pension deposit, the conditions of interest and the life expectancy. So, with so many other matters relating to the conditions of members of parliament and ministers, the terms of ministerial pension are treated here as those of civil servants and not as regards occupational pensions. But when I mentioned occupational pensions, it was because Mr. Pelle Dragsted is now trying to draw a picture of the fact that only ministers, in other words a few, have the opportunity to stop early and get their pension at a lower rate. And that's not true. In fact, it is also possible under the Labour Pensions Act for those who have an occupational pension and who have been deducted as calculated actuarially.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516141147	Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516141149	It may well be that the Minister has formally replied to what the Minister has said. At the same time, however, the Minister said that it was a question of equality. What we have to compare with is people's opportunities. And it is clear that if you have been a minister for eight years and earned the full pension, then you have more opportunities to retire before, especially when the deduction is much less than you have if you, for example. has been a warehouse worker. For the pension savings you have is quite much larger, and that means, of course, that it means less to have to make a deduction of 5 or 6%. a year in the future. That is what the parties to the agreement said they wanted to change, but the reality is that in future it will also be possible for politicians to have a good pension before other Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516141238	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516141239	What has been said is quite clear, in other words, that ministers are treated in the same way as officials in the same way as ministers in the same way as officials in the same way. And that is what we are doing here, because we are on an equal footing with the time when we can retire. Just as civil servants today have an opportunity to retire earlier, against a deduction from the pension you receive, ministers will also have that opportunity forward-looking. At no time have I tried to draw a picture of the equalisation of the rights of officials. There is a special rule for ministers, yes, and it has been agreed among the parties all the way through. But the picture that is drawn from the fact that this possibility of retirement before time is unique and rare and only for ministers is false and wrong, and it has been all the way through.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516141324	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516141331	Thank you. I think the Minister could give a little thought. Now I have heard the debates both in committee and down here. The Minister has tried every time to compare ministerial pensions with, for example: my pension as a former forest worker. So it is no use doing it at the same moment without mentioning that I have to pay 20%. of my pension when I have to go down and withdraw my ordinary occupational pension if I want to raise it before, while the Minister has to pay 6%. of his pension. If I asked the Minister: Try to take out the big calculator and rain out what 20%. of my small pension is in relation to 6%. of the Minister's very, very large pension, and then get them translated into crowns, then perhaps the Minister can see that most Danes will say: Ahr, wasn't it a good thing to have that detail with you when you're sneaking around with figures inside the Assembly Hall?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516141428	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516141430	I do not have the opportunity to make that comparison, because I do not know either the pension terms of the questioner or have any current figures for my own pension conditions, so I cannot make a comparison and slouch around me with the figures. I have not, in fact, hurled around me with figures, I have tried to stick to a principle: what is said today is that civil servants have the opportunity to stop before they reach the retirement age against a deduction, just as ministers can do in the future, and when some have said that they are only civil servants, and there are not very many of them, I have pointed out that that possibility also exists for people who are on an occupational pension. Is there a difference in the amount of the deductions? Yes, there is. One is a definite agreement made in the field of civil servants and ministers, and the other is an actuarial calculation. These are the different approaches to it. But that is the approach we are taking in the field of civil servants, which we are introducing in the way that the pensions of ministers are dealt with in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516141528	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516141531	Yes, now we are starting to get a slightly more realistic picture of it instead of propaganda. I think that's nice. But I'll guess I have to pay about. Ten times as much as the Minister has to, in order to stop three years before perhaps more, perhaps much, much more, because I do not know what the Minister's relationship is. Now, as far as I remember, the Minister will soon have earned a full pension. I have far from earned a full pension because it was non-existent when I entered the labour market; there we had no pensions at all. Therefore, when we talk about these things, we have to give the citizens true figures, otherwise it will flicker, and the only thing the Minister gets out of this kind of thing is politics.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516141612	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516141614	But that is precisely why I have not come up with figures, but a principle. Every time Enhedslisten has claimed that this was something unique for ministers, I have said that no, it is not unique that it is possible to retire before the retirement age against a deduction from the pension you receive. In fact, this is something both in the field of civil servants and also in the area of occupational pensions. It is an equality of opportunity for resigning. At no time have I concealed that fact. Then there are some things about set-off. There are also some things about earnings that are different. Yeah, but that's not what I've been focusing on. I have focused on what the opportunities are for retirement and at what time you can get a pension.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516141657	Thank you. Thank you, Minister. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendments has ended and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516141707	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (DF and SF). The vote is over. For the amendment 34 (DF, EL and SF) voted against 74 (S, V, LA, ALT, RV and KF), [no votes for or against 0]. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2 of a minority (SF), joined by a minority (DF, EL and ALT). The vote is over. For the amendment 41 (DF, EL, ALT and SF) voted against 68 (S, V, LA, RV and KF), [no votes for or against 0]. The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 5, tabled and joined by the same minorities, lapsed. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 3 and 4, joined by the Committee? They are adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516141832	The negotiations then concern the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the bill? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516141837	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 68 (S, V, LA, RV and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions 41 (DF, EL, ALT and SF). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516141907	The debate is primarily concerned with the proposed amendments. Here you go, sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516141930	Thank you very much. The proposal we are now dealing with third-reading is about the pension situation of members of parliament, where the proposal we were discussing earlier was about the pension situation of ministers. For many years, the Enhedslisten has been working to normalise the pension situation of politicians, so that they are fleeing to a greater extent than they are today with the conditions of other Danes. We don't think politicians should have any violent special privileges. We think it should be paid fairly and so on. and so on, but we do not think that there should be excessive special privileges. The proposal that is being adopted today contains some progress, but it is not at all enough to put an end to some of the very far-reaching privileges that politicians enjoy. In fact, some of us run the risk of gaining greater privileges than today; that is, the rules become more lucrative. That is why, both at second reading and at third reading, we have tabled a number of amendments on the part of the Enhedslisten and, if adopted, they will help to create more reasonable conditions which are more similar to those of other Danes. This bill means that in future politicians will also have a very extraordinary pension scheme, where in a few years and much faster than almost all other Danes earn the right to a very high pension. Unfortunately, the majority of the parties to the contract have chosen to overhear the proposals of the Service Commission, which was otherwise set up to switch to a more moderate pension more similar to that of most employees. The Folketing now has the chance to rectify this, because the SF has retabled the amendment we tabled at second reading to simply follow the recommendations of the remuneration committee and move to a savings-based labour market pension. Unfortunately, it seems that a majority will again vote against. The draft law here means, of course, raising the retirement age for members of parliament, so that in future it will follow the retirement age rather than, as it is today, the early retirement age. That's good enough. However, as I mentioned in my previous speech, this little trick has been introduced with a so-called early retirement option. It is therefore not such an early retirement pension as we know from the general world outside Christiansborg, where you just as well have to have a medical cause and be approved in order to receive an early retirement pension. No, it's the kind of early retirement you choose freely if you want it to be. And combined with the very lucrative pension, where you earn the highest pension in 20 years, it will mean that members of parliament can also retire in the future with a very high pension several years before the retirement age...(Sound from the Chamber President: And you can even get this early retirement pension, while you have a different job and a high income. We in the Enhedslist believe that this is not fair and we have therefore also tabled an amendment which removes this possibility of early retirement. Let us then turn to the amendment tabled by the Social Democratic Party that members of parliament should be able to opt for a more moderate pension optionally. In fact, as I said at second reading, I think this is an embarrassing round on the part of the Socialist top, because instead of listening to the people's hero, I think, fair criticism of the politicians' pension situation or just following the commission, that is, the remuneration commission, which you have set up yourself, you are making this suggestion that those who are dissatisfied with their far too high pensions can simply go down on their own. But this whole debate on the pension situation of politicians is not about some being dissatisfied with their pensions. It is about the fact that many in the population are dissatisfied with the fact that we have a pension that is so lucrative in relation to what ordinary people have. And the fact that some of us then choose to go down on a lower pension will not make the discontent of the population disappear if the rest retains those privileges. However, as you know, in the Enhedslisten we have chosen to support the Social Democratic proposal that you can voluntarily renounce this privilege pension and move on to a more moderate pension. And we have announced that our members of the Folketing will also move on to this lower pension if that option comes. It is not because we think it is a good proposal; as I said, we do not think so. But it is because we hope or have a little hope that such a scheme might put pressure on the politicians who choose the privilege pension to go to their constituency, to their constituents, and explain why they think they should have such a lucrative pension, which really means that they can retire several years before most other Danes. Therefore, if there is to be voluntary service, it is of course essential that there should also be full transparency as to which parties and politicians maintain the privilege pension and who voluntarily grants it. That is why we have also tabled an amendment to the Social Democrats' proposal, which will ensure transparency, so that the people have the opportunity to follow who thinks they should have pension relationships similar to those of the population and who believes they have the right to far more lucrative relationships. But again: a voluntary scheme is not the solution to the dissatisfaction that exists in the population about our pension situation. The very idea of the Social Democrats' proposal that politicians should move to a pension scheme that reflects the civil servant pension so that in future it will take 37 years to earn a full pension against today, when it only takes 20 years to earn a full pension. And that is why we have also taken the Social Democrats' proposal and tabled an amendment that we simply implement it for all members of the Folketing with phasing-in from the next parliamentary term. It really surprises me that the Social Democrats are apparently not going to support the proposal that they themselves have put forward in this version, in which it covers themselves, but will only support it if it is optional. But it may be that there is a rapporteur who will come up here and explain it. To conclude, I would just like to say that, as I have said, we have been working for many years to normalise the pension situation of politicians, and that is not because it is about a great deal of money in the large state accounts, but because it is about principles. When you insist on maintaining unfair privileges, while ordinary Danes are affected by reforms, by early retirement reforms, you send a completely wrong signal, as we see it, that we in here are worth more and have the right to more than ordinary Danes who go to work and do their jobs. That is why I can promise, I believe, that this will not be the last time that we in the Folketing will have to deal with our pension situation. Because history has actually shown that persistent pressure has meant that, step by step, we are getting small steps in the right direction and having limited privileges. So I guess we're not even going to the finish line? But thank you for the fight for this time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516142736	Thank you to the rapporteur. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendments has ended and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516142749	Then we shall proceed with the votes. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2 of a minority (SF), elected by a majority (other committee with the exception of S)? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 3 of a minority (SF), joined by a minority (DF, EL and ALT). The vote is over. For the amendment 41 (DF, EL, ALT and SF), against 68 (S, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 13 and joined by the same minorities, lapsed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 5 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (DF, ALT and SF). The vote is over. In favour of voting 41 (DF, EL, ALT and SF), against 68 (S, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 17 and joined by the same minorities, lapsed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 6 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (DF and SF). The vote is over. In favour 35 (DF, EL and SF), against 74 (S, V, LA, ALT, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 14 and 15, tabled and joined by the same minorities, lapsed. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 9 of a minority (SF), elected by a majority (other committee with the exception of S)? The amendment has been adopted. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 10 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (S), lapsed. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 12 to Amendment No. 12 to Amendment No. 12 to Amendment No. 12 to Amendment No. 12 to Amendment No. 12 to Amendment No. 12 The amendment was tabled by a minority (EL) and endorsed by a majority (S, DF, ALT, RV and SF). The amendment has been adopted. The amendment thus amended is put to the vote. 11 by a minority (S). The vote is over. In favour of 30 (S), against 78 (DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 4, 7 and 8, tabled by the same minority, lapsed. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 16 by a majority (S, V, LA, RV and KF), elected by a minority (the other committee)? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516143152	The debate then concerns the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the bill? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516143202	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 67 (S, V, LA, RV and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions 41 (DF, EL, ALT and SF). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516143257	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516143310	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 84 (S, DF, V, 1 (EL) (by mistake), LA and KF) voted against 23 (EL, ALT (by mistake), RV and SF (by mistake), abstained 0. The bill has been passed and is now being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516143339	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516143349	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 107 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), 0 abstentions 0]. The bill has been passed unanimously and is now being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516143413	Does anyone wish to speak? Sofie Carsten Nielsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516143426	We are now voting on an amendment to the law which repeals the 26-year rule and then introduces an attachment requirement for all Danish citizens. This means that all Danish citizens, unless the amendment is adopted, cannot marry those they fall in love with if they fall in love with someone with a foreign background, and do not return to their own country even if they have lived for many years in Denmark before falling in love with a foreigner. The amendment on which we are going to vote will mean that Danish citizens will have the right to marry whoever they want and live in their own country if they can support themselves. I do not think that there is a majority in favour of this, and I think that is really, really a pity, because it is quite strange that as Danes and Danish citizens we cannot be allowed to fall in love with those we want and live in our own country. I think that we in the Folketing agree quite broadly with people who get married in an arranged marriage or forced marriage that we are fundamentally opposed to all of them. It does not belong here, not anywhere, and we want to fight that. But this is about Danish citizens who, for the most part, have lived most of their lives in Denmark, who have gone out and lived for a number of years abroad and fell in love with someone else, and who now wants to return home with their spouse and their children and contribute to Denmark. I wonder if this is something we're going to experience a little more of in the future. I don't think the thing about falling in love with a foreigner goes away. So I hope, even if the amendment does not go through, that we will get on with it because that is what the Minister has set out to do, fortunately to make it easier for Danish citizens, not the next year, but hopefully then, to be able to live in their own country with the one they love when they can support themselves. That should be a fundamental right, and we will work hard to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516143720	There are no brief comments. Thank you to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516143730	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (EL, ALT and RV, joined by a minority (SF), and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 24 votes (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 82 votes (S, DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It has been adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516143807	Does anyone wish to speak? Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516143824	Thank you. This is the law that discriminates against Danish citizens so that they cannot return home with their foreign spouse unless they earn more than a decent amount, which means that we discriminate in this way. If you have an income of less than DKK 400,000, you cannot get to Denmark. You have to have offered a job that provides an income above it. That is to say, we discriminate against pensioners who have the opportunity to return to Denmark, they can support themselves. We think this is completely unheard of, and that is why, of course, we support the amendment that has now been tabled, which means that this law will automatically run out in one year's time. However, it is a pity that we have come out there where we discriminate against our own citizens to return home to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516143914	Thank you. Do more people want to speak? As that is not the case, the debate has ended and we shall proceed to the vote if we have it under control.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516143926	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (DF), joined by a minority (SF), and can be voted if we can get the technique in order, and we can probably do that. A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 26 (DF and ALT), against 83 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2, to be elected by the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516144023	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516144051	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516144107	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1, agreed by the committee that the draft law should be divided into two legislative proposals? The division of the bill into two legislative proposals has been adopted. The proposal referred to in A shall be put to the vote [Proposal for a law amending the Health Act and the Law on access to health care for claims and claims]. If we want to vote on Amendment No 1, we will vote on Amendment No 3. 2, to be elected by the Committee? It's agreed. The proposal referred to in B is then put to the vote [Proposal for a Law amending the Health Act]. If we want to vote on Amendment No 1, we will vote on Amendment No 3. 3 and 4, joined by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516144149	The debate has been opened, and it is quite calm in the Chamber for us to start. But we don't have a minister. We're looking for a business minister. I am sorry, but we cannot negotiate when the Minister is not here. I shall postpone the sitting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516144617	I regret the interruption, but as the Minister knows, it is not possible to negotiate in the Folketing when the Minister is not present. But now the Minister is here. The debate is open. Here you go, Minister of Business.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516144643	I would like to start by regretting to the President and the Folketing that I was late for the proposal. Because, of course, we have to be there on time for proposals to be discussed in the Parliamentary Assembly. The proposal put forward here is, after all, the establishment of a mortgage institution for loans to owner-occupied housing and commercial property in peripheral areas. It is a re-submission of a motion for a resolution from the last Assembly, which was also tabled in the previous Assembly, and that is how we can go on and on. But it is fair and relevant to have the debate. We in the government believe that there are a number of problems with the proposal and therefore do not think that a State mortgage institution should be set up. Firstly, a State-supported mortgage institution, whether it be for deficit cover or interest rate subsidies, will require that an annual framework be set for it by the Finance Act, and that requires funding. Resources will also have to be allocated to the rating of borrowers, as such competencies are not present in the public system today. Secondly, the establishment of such a State institution could lead to a quota system in which only a limited proportion of potential borrowers in the outermost regions could obtain a loan. Thirdly, a government credit institution will address borrowers that private institutions will not serve because the value of the mortgage is deemed to be too uncertain. This will give the institution a loan portfolio with significant loss risks exceeding the loss risks of private institutions. In concrete terms, this means that the State will take on significant loss risks. Fourthly, it is the Government's immediate assessment that the proposed scheme would be in breach of the State aid rules. In conclusion, the government generally considers that the State should not intervene in private markets unless there are special circumstances to justify this. It should also be noted that a well-functioning credit market will result in both acceptance and refusal of loan requests. The refusal of credit requests therefore does not necessarily mean that the market is not functioning properly. So, overall, the government does not believe that state aid is the right way to go on this matter, and the government cannot therefore support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516144908	There is a brief comment to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516144911	When we make this proposal over and over again, it is because we think that it is one of the greatest challenges for our country that we are about to break over. We see in Copenhagen and also in some other major cities that housing prices explode, and then there are rural areas where the problems are quite different, where it is difficult to get loans and where you cannot buy and sell, and then mobility stops. After all, the Minister is a minister for the whole of Denmark. When we discuss this, the Minister often uses the argument that we should not go in with state aid, we should not support anything that should be handled alone in a market. But is it not true that the Minister is also a minister for an area in which we spend billions in business promotion, business support, export subsidies, etc.? So why can we spend billions of government dollars helping companies and businesses to continue, but not to ensure that it doesn't necessarily cost money • that homeowners can also obtain loans in rural areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516145018	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516145026	Firstly, I fully agree that we need to focus politically on achieving a better balance between the country and the city, and this is about an offensive rural policy. In addition, I think that what we do on the part of the government, also supported by many of the parties of the Folketing, shows that we give priority to rural areas with various measures. Then there is the purely principle approach to what the SF is talking about here, that is to say that a state institute should be set up. First of all, I believe that it would put people in a hurry when it comes to whether or not we could get loans, because it will also have to operate on fair market conditions. Secondly, I do not think that the state should spend its money throwing good money at bad. We have some institutes out there that work and that lend out billions of dollars. We have made a sensible agreement, by the way also with SF, which means more transparency, better opportunity to get cheaper loans and better opportunity to change company. We can also see, when we look at the economic situation, that the rural economy has improved. So what we really need to do to lift rural areas is to pursue an economic policy which means that there are jobs and growth, including in rural areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516145129	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516145130	Throwing good money after bad money so there are a lot of citizens in rural areas who have a fine economy and who, if they lived in another zip code, could get a loan. This isn't bad money, it's people who get no, because exactly that spot on the map you don't want to borrow for, or because it's not normal to give 6-7 million. kr. For a house in large parts of this country. There it costs between 0.5 and 1 million. kr. This is the case in many places, and you can't get loans for that. This can be done in many ways. It is intended to take place on market terms and therefore there will also be a small interest rate. So it's not a state institute. It can be arranged in many ways if the will is there.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516145218	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516145219	All other things being equal, the implementation of the SF's proposals here will mean putting the market out of effect, and that is why throwing good money at bad. Because there are some institutes out there, and if they do not borrow the money, and you imagine that the money is being borrowed because the state is going in, it must be because some people think that it is not profitable and sensible to borrow money for those projects. What we can do is to ensure that the rural environment gets moving, that the economy improves, that we have a proper infrastructure and educational environment, which means that there will be jobs out there, and in this way follows housing prices. And we can also see from the figures that housing prices have increased in all parts of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516145300	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516145305	Fortunately, now we don't just have to talk fantasy and theory. We've had a public lending institution before. I would therefore like to hear from the Minister: does the Minister believe that there are historical arguments for the state to have such an institute and that it means money out of the Treasury? That is one question. The second is: Did it destroy the lending institution's market conditions at the time?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516145333	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516145335	It can be said that the situation has changed a great deal since then. Today we have well-functioning mortgage institutions that lend out money • billions of kroner • to millions of Danes. The starting point of the proposal from the SF and the question from the Enhedslisten is that it should be possible for people to borrow money for their housing or business property wherever they live. But there is the best answer all other things equal, and we can also see that from the analyses we are making of it now that we need to have growth throughout Denmark, so it pays to invest in jobs and housing throughout Denmark. We can see that we are heading for this because the economic situation in Denmark has improved so much over recent years.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516145416	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516145417	The minister answers directly around it. I ask, paragraph 1: Was there a problem for the state's economy that the state owned a lending institution in the old days, that is, in the past? I don't think there was. It was quite a healthy business. Point 2: Was it a problem on the market that there was a state lending institution at that time? Those are the two questions I am asking, and not about all the other outside talk.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516145445	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516145446	That requires an analysis of it. It may be that Mr. Christian Juhl did not think it was a problem; it may be that some others thought it was a problem. What I can relate to is that we have different mortgage institutions today, which are granting loans on market terms. If the state were to be brought in, it would distort relations with them, which would mean going in and supporting loans that the market would not support. And that must mean a greater risk of loss. But that is not crucial for us. What matters to us is that we will focus on a wealth of other activities, which will mean that the activities in rural areas will get more momentum, because it is a key priority for the government that we get growth and balance going throughout Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516145526	Then it's mr. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516145533	The minister himself took part yesterday in a meeting with the 25 municipalities responsible for this campaign. It was then the final gathering conference. There were, in fact, a number of mayors who could still point out that there are problems around in some of their municipalities, which are outskirts municipalities, with the financing of loans for both residential and small businesses. And, like what Martin Damm and the mayor of Aabenraa, Thomas Andresen, said at the time, you can see that the market is basically not working if you cannot actually borrow for cheap houses around. I fully understand that we are on our way out of the crisis and that, of course, everything else is going to start some activities, but we really need to prepare for the next crisis, because then this problem will be intensified, and that is the problem we are facing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516145636	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516145638	I'm sorry, I think you're focusing on the wrong thing. It's like that old grooming trick, isn't it? We are focusing on the problem over here instead of focusing on the real problem that lies down here, and that is that there is a lack of activity in rural areas. There is a lack of training opportunities, there is a lack of professional activities, there is a lack of proper infrastructure. What is missing is not that the state goes in and co-finances loans to citizens living in rural areas. That is to blind people, for they will never be able to pay off all the wishes that will be from all the citizens who want to borrow money never. After all, everything else must work in one way or another on market conditions, otherwise it would be contrary to state aid rules and everything else. After all, that is the reality in which we live. Therefore, there will be a number of practical problems in establishing a State mortgage institution. It will also require some money from the Finance Act, and there will also be a quota system in which only a limited proportion of the potential borrowers in the outermost regions will be able to obtain loans. So the sum of this is that it will turn to citizens who otherwise will not be able to borrow elsewhere. In other words, there will be considerable risk of loss in everything else being equal. And should we not rather spend that money on supporting real activities in rural areas and making sure that we have the opportunity to get better loans?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516145752	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516145754	I do not think anyone disagrees with that, so we must ensure that further activities are carried out in rural areas. It can certainly help some of these things. Nevertheless, we must note that the Turk believe that the market solves all problems is exaggerated. That is why I am referring to various mayors and so on, who clearly point out that this is not entirely connected in the extreme parish. And I think that the Minister is, after all, adopting a position where you give up and say: yes, there are parts of Denmark where the market does not work, and there is really nothing to do about that, other than that we are trying to create some activities. And after all, there could be state funding to help here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516145836	Thank you! The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516145839	Quite frankly, I do not think that state funding would solve anything, because it will not solve the desire that will come from a great many people who today cannot get their loans because the business cycle is not with them. There you have to assume that you only give loans to a house or a commercial property if you get the money back. Otherwise it is such a mere gift check, and then other citizens in Denmark would think: Why the cat should we do it? No, what we are doing is ensuring that there is activity in rural areas. And it is not only the market that provides it; it is also the state that does so in various activities. That is why we place educational institutions in different places in Denmark; that is why we place infrastructure and investment where it matters and benefits investment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516145920	Then it's mr. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516145921	I understand the Minister very well. We are in a difficult situation in the alternative, because I would really like to support this proposal, but I have to admit that I find it difficult to see that we can solve the problem within the next 10-15 years, and indeed in the long term, by making all the good initiatives that the Minister intends. On the other hand, we are opposed to making this aid available to a mortgage credit institution which would actually operate under market conditions; we are thinking that it is not sustainable. In other words, we do not see that it is sustainable for the future, and there is something sick in the design. On the other hand, as the other rapporteurs have said, we have seen this before. So I would just like to ask the Minister: could one imagine an alternative form of financing, in other words a mortgage institution that went in and did what the proposers are proposing, in other words, helped in a market where it is very, very difficult to see that the initiatives we are taking are enough? Could you imagine some kind of a variety of it? Because then one could suggest that one should have a hearing on it later or continue working on it. Because I really think the proposal is a good one.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516150023	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516150026	To be honest, I do not see that there are any hybrids of state interference in a market where there are well-functioning institutes today. Well, why should the state go in and put money in something where there are some institutes? Everything else equal according to normal sound logic will mean that the state will lose on it. Otherwise, the market would work, and that means that you have to look at what else is possible. For it is a high priority for the government that there is balance in Denmark and that there is growth throughout Denmark. And it is about ensuring that there are jobs throughout Denmark and that people stay. What we can see from our own analyses and we also had a rural statement two weeks ago here in the Parliament Hall is that things are now better in all parts of Denmark. There are of course some pockets where things don't go great, but in all parts of Denmark things are generally better now than they did a few years ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516150124	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516150127	Yes, but it falls back on me when I have to take the floor in a few moments, saying that if we do not do this and do not come up with any other solutions than those we have today, then we must also bear in mind that it may be that we are writing off these areas. At least I will find it difficult to go up and say that I am not voting for this because I think it is a crooked model to do it, while at the same time saying that I have no better solutions, so for a while I am writing off this society. Because that is actually what you hear, and I hear the proposers say that in local areas too. There is a need for a solution now and here, and our solution, and also that of the Minister, is a long-term one.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516150159	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516150201	You can always come up with all sorts of interesting solutions to problems that are there, because there is but because you find a solution, it is not necessarily a good solution, and it is not a good solution for the state to go into a market where there are already institutes. What is the good solution is to ensure that it becomes attractive to lend to activities in those areas, and we do so by supporting that the wheels also get going in rural areas. That is what it takes, in other words by focusing on tourism and by focusing on other professions that matter to the outskirts.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516150238	Then it's mr. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516150242	I think that the Minister is talking a little bit about, because what we are talking about here is that there are people who have a good economy and that there are companies that make money and have a well-functioning business and they cannot get loans because the market is not working. Now the minister represents the whole government and thus also the Left, and the Left has a mayor in Kalundborg, who is also president of the National Association of Municipalities. He said earlier: there are ordinary families with two incomes, which in some postal numbers find it difficult to obtain loans for an otherwise relatively cheap house, and then the market does not work. Does the Minister agree with Martin Damm that the market is not working as it is now, neither for people who have a good economy, nor for companies who can make money?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516150330	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516150332	Now I do not know when the quote from Mayor Martin Damm is from, because the essence of the matter is that we can now see that housing prices have increased in all parts of Denmark, including Kalundborg. It means it's easier to get loans. And if you look at a status today, in May 2017, we can see that housing prices have increased in all parts of Denmark. It also means that it is easier to obtain loans because you are borrowing on the basis of what the real possible selling price is. I don't think the answer is that the state is more involved in mortgage lending. It reminds me too much of solutions from the 1970s and of some countries I do not like at all. Because why should the state get involved in something where we have a market that works? What we need to ensure is to create a foundation so that mortgage institutions and banks want to lend money to those areas, and then, of course, we must also constantly draw their attention to the fact that we also have a social responsibility for our balance in Denmark. But it is not done by the state going in and granting loans to citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516150442	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516150444	This quote does not come from the 1970s, because it is about a year and a half old, and it comes from a Left Mayor who can see what reality looks like in the real world, trying to find practical solutions to the real problems that you have around the country, around the countryside, outside the country, outside the big cities. But what I did not quite get an answer to, I think, was what the Minister really is about the market. Does the Minister believe that the market is functioning as it is at present and that the market will be able to cope with the situation? Because Martin Damm certainly doesn't think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516150522	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516150524	As I mentioned just now, the market has changed over the last 18 months. That's why I asked when the quote was from. That quote would certainly not be given today. For today it is the case that house prices have increased, which means that it is also easier to obtain loans. The market is functioning, but the way we address it by the government is by saying that we need to push rural development, because it is not going fast enough and there is a lack of activity in rural areas. We have a political responsibility to ensure that we get a Denmark in balance. But we are not doing that, I think, by making a prehistoric solution with the state going in and interfering in loans to citizens. Everything else will be equal, firstly, with a lot of disappointment and, secondly, with the abuse of state money.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516150603	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the Minister for Industry and start the rapporteur's round. First, it's sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516150612	It is, of course, a re-submission from the SF of a proposal to set up a mortgage for loans to owner-occupied housing and commercial properties in peripheral areas, and I can say that, although it is a new Social Democratic rapporteur who is here, we have not changed our position since we dealt with this one and a half years ago. Social democracy is very concerned about creating a Denmark in balance. We also take it seriously when people around the country in the province, in peripheral areas, see that they cannot access mortgage financing even if their economy is healthy. Of course, it must be the private economy, not the postal number, which is crucial when meeting with the mortgage credit institution. That is why we also agree that there are the problems raised, but we do not agree with the solution proposed by the SF, first and foremost because we do not want the state to run a bank or a mortgage institution. We believe that this would distort competition and, as such, we have no reason to believe that the state should have special conditions for going into effective banking. So we do not want to support this SF proposal, even today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516150739	There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516150743	That discussion about who is effective in running banking and financial activities in Denmark, I don't think I'm going to go into it compared to we set 3,000 billion. kr. At stake to save the banks. But that's another talk. The Socialist rapporteur says that it is not the task of the state to enter this market or to support these things, in other words by ensuring that there is a mortgage institution. But what does the rapporteur think about spending 26 billion? kr. On business support • 26 billion. kr. There are many different schemes. However, we cannot create a state mortgage institution, which must be operated on its own basis, to ensure that the whole country is linked. There are hundreds of thousands of people out there whose lives are affected by this, in places where there is no mobility, where you cannot buy or sell because it is black spots on the map.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516150849	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516150850	It is the Social Democracy's desire and ambition that Denmark will be the world's best place to do business. It requires good support, it requires political support, it requires a proper infrastructure, both road and rail, it requires the Internet, it requires good production conditions, and it requires, first and foremost, a well-trained workforce • a well-trained workforce not only in the big cities but throughout the country. So you can do a lot that benefits the business community and also a lot that will benefit the whole of Denmark. To answer the question put by the SF rapporteur, namely what the Social Democratic Party thinks about this business support, I can say that we think it is very good that we support Danish industry. The better conditions there can be for business to operate in Denmark, the richer and stronger will be Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516150939	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516150941	Now I am not talking so much about infrastructure, education and so on. I'm talking about spending 26 billion. kr. Every year, on direct support to some companies, to something that I thought otherwise to e.g. Our Conservative Minister would think that the market itself had to cope with the fall, what cannot stand the principle. That is also a bit of what I hear from the Social Democratic Party, and then I just say: why is the principle of letting the market take care of it when it comes to hundreds of thousands of Danes living in rural areas while it does not apply when it comes to businesses? They do not have to cope with market conditions, we have to support them with 26 billion. kr. a year.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516151019	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516151020	We must do everything we can to ensure that Danish industry has the best working conditions. Something is about business support, but it is also about infrastructure. That's why I'm taking it with me. That's pretty crucial. And most importantly, it is about education and continuing training, so there is a skilled workforce that the business community can use. Because if we stop doing that, the alternative is either that they shut down or that they have to import labour or that they are moving production abroad. So it is absolutely crucial that this support is given to Danish business, and I can only support that. It's a good business for Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516151059	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516151101	Nor do I fully understand the liberalist thinking that has now been advocated by the Social Democrats. It was the Social Democratic Party that introduced the state mortgage institution in Denmark in order precisely to give an opportunity on the market for anyone to borrow for his house. And since today's market is such that you cannot borrow money even for a cheap house... an extremely cheap house... in the outermost regions, even if you have a job... isn't the time to regulate that market? After all, we have historically and topically agreed that it may be an opportunity for the state to go in and regulate a market that does not work.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516151138	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516151140	Well, there are some challenges. Some of this we can do something about, and some of it we should do something about. Last time there was this debate in the Parliamentary Assembly a year and a half ago, it was a little in the stream of the report that came from the Committee on the Financing of Rural Housing and Commercial Property, which had some recommendations, among other things. on some things which were seen as obstacles to borrowing, among other things. The six-month rule. There was something about the amount available. There were some other, what can be said, problematic elements which we already supported at that time, as well as the need to do something about them. At least there were a number of recommendations from the report at the time, and much of it has been included by the government. So something political has happened since we last discussed this. And there is also an opportunity to do something. Now we have to deal with whether we want the state to set up a mortgage institution, and there is the view of the Social Democratic Party that we should not do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516151245	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516151247	This means that, historically and at present, the Social Democratic Party has changed its attitude in relation to the good old days when we took a little care of the market and tried to regulate it. I think it is a subtle attitude, even when one has to hear a minister say that when housing prices rise, it is easier to obtain loans. It's just the other way around in an ordinary market. Well, if the house I'm going to buy goes up in price and I don't have too much money, well, then it's even harder for me to get a loan. It's something that goes without saying. I've never heard such nonsense. What will the Social Democrats do to help secure those citizens who have little money and who could buy a cheap house?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516151325	We don't have any talk in the Assembly Hall. Okay). Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516151332	Well, we don't want to back this up. Now Mr. Christian Juhl, that we have changed our position, but that is exactly the same as my good colleague said a year and a half ago, so it is difficult to say anything about it. I have his old speech here next to me, so it is hard to say that the Social Democrats should have changed their attitude in this area. At that time, we pointed out some of the recommendations made by the report of the Committee on the Financing of Rural Housing and Commercial Property, which was set up by the former Socialist Government, and many of the recommendations we have, like those proposed, proposed that further work should be carried out.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516151416	There are no more brief remarks to the rapporteur, so we thank Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff and goes on in the rapporteur's line to Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516151433	One might say that dear child has many names, and so does this resolution. As far as I can see, in spring 2015 it was B 33, in autumn 2015 it had been transcribed to be B 12, and now in spring 2017 it is B 127. The motion for a resolution tabled by the Enhedslisten has not changed very much, but we will, in our view, accept the tradition of the Danish People's Party in order to have the opportunity to discuss the mortgage situation in the Danish outermost regions and in rural areas in particular. SF is right to say that it is a challenge in many parts of Denmark to be able to obtain a reasonable loan in connection with the purchase of real estate, especially in the outlying areas of Denmark. But we do not entirely agree with SF about the medicine, nor did we in connection with the other treatments that have been in the Folketing. We do not believe that the right medicine is to do state-guaranteed lending or, for that matter, to make government-funded loans to rural properties. It's not the right medicine. We must respect the fact that this is an open market where there must be competition on equal and fair terms, and this also means that if we go in with a state company and say that we want to create a new company on the market and that they must both provide loans for the financing of commercial property and private housing in rural areas, then we would already be getting into some huge wavestorm, because that would also mean that there would be areas in Denmark that would become black. They would become black in the sense that there would be areas where the other mortgage institutions on the market would say: yes, but that is probably not something we should go into, since the government thinks it is necessary to conduct a new policy with an economic rescue force, in which all other taxpayers must guarantee possible losses. This would be a situation which would have incalculable consequences in terms of who lives on the right side or the wrong side of these outermost regions. For example, do the proposers think that it should be the old parishes that should be in force, or do the proposers think that it should be postal numbers? Both will present some challenges, for some of the biggest postal numbers are e.g. 6700 Esbjerg or 8700 Horsens or other city postal numbers, and they have thus seen the same challenge, i.e. that some of their residents actually live in rural areas and others live where it is relatively easier to sell real estate. Then we would find ourselves in a situation where, as politicians, we should stand on TV South or TV 2 East Jutland, or where we are now standing, explaining why those who live in no. 14 on the road, well can get government loans while those who live in no. 16, cannot, because it is a postal code sequence or a consequence in relation to the old parishes. And we in the Danish People's Party cannot agree to that. We believe that there must be a level playing field for everyone. We would like to be involved in discussing improved conditions for obtaining loans. We think it would be appropriate to have a discussion about the need for possible legislation, it could be a model in which it is said that there is a lower lending rate, for example. Rural areas today are said to be 80% of the population. for private housing financing, and it might be said that when the houses have less than a certain value, only 60% can be borrowed. But that is a way to go in and regulate the market, and it will also mean that it will be a place where we go in and make definite new legislation. We have never really been opposed to this, but we in the Danish People's Party have just said that it must be in the utmost consequence that we must come into a situation where we want to legislate on things that should otherwise take place in an operational liberal market. And that's where we think many homeowners will be in a cat pain if this proposal becomes a reality. What about the rates of contributions, which we have talked about a great deal? What about the rates of contributions and their development in the areas where these new types of loans would enter the market? Will those who live where these loans cannot be obtained help to pay, either at a higher rate of contribution or at a higher rate of tax, because it should give a tax advantage to those who borrow their homes in these new areas that the proposers bring in? Or what exactly are you going to do? It is not a model that the Danish People's Party can support. We think it is wrong to create state companies in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516151942	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516151944	Compared to that, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby starts by amusing himself that this is the third time we have dealt with this motion for a resolution in the Chamber, I think it is a little incredible that the DF's rapporteur spends so much time talking about postal numbers when it is not in our proposal at all. It is addressed to rural areas because this is where the problem is. But of course it is not the case that if you live in a zip code, you can't get a loan, and if you live in another, you can. The problem is in rural areas. It is not in the middle of Copenhagen or Aarhus or Horsens, or wherever it may be. It is a rural problem and it is also a problem that people with a healthy economy are experiencing. If the rapporteur has read the motion for a resolution, he will see that it also says that a special mortgage institution must be set up to deal with loans to owner-occupied dwellings and commercial properties in the outlying areas, and that can be done, for example, by: operate on market conditions. And it may be by saying that in some places there is a slightly slower turnaround, and therefore it will be reflected in the interest rate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516152052	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516152054	I find it very difficult to see this happening on so-called reasonable market conditions if one acts on the market on the basis of a State guarantee or an interest relief model, while the other acts one hundred percent on the basis of ordinary liberal lending. It's not in my optics a fair market model. The rapporteur himself is also talking about what is actually at the heart of the matter. In other words, it is possible that SF has spent time and made an effort to write the proposal, but it expressly states that it is the establishment of a mortgage for loans for owner-occupied housing and commercial buildings in rural areas. But you can't just say that because where is the limit to a rural area? How close are you to Esbjerg city for not being in a rural area, and how short from Horsens for not being so? Those things are flapping a little in the wind. There I say that one way to do it, and it's just a well-intentioned advice, is to choose to do it on the basis of the purchase price, if you should at last. Otherwise you have parishes and zip numbers, but those models just don't work as intended.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516152159	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516152201	If DF wants to throw its mandates into the pool by making an amendment based on the price, i.e. where, for example, the price is taken into account. has been refused a market loan, but by the way, we have a healthy economy, so we are in a position to talk to. That's for sure. The problem here is that there are plenty of people and business owners who are refused loans, even if they have a healthy economy. And it is not the case that we are not going into all sorts of other areas where there is the so-called free market. As I said earlier, there are 26 billion. kr. in business support, so it is not the case that we have a liberal market anywhere, in other words where there is no state involvement at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516152242	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516152243	As such, we do not throw around the mandates of the Danish People's Party. We do not use this practice here in the Folketing. I specifically said in my rapporteur's speech that it was in the utmost consequence, in other words that in a situation where there was no competition in this area, lending in this area could well be discussed whether new legislation would be appropriate. I think I said that clearly in my speech. I would also like to say that we have changed things in relation to the lay-off principle, where we have just said that it would be good and sensible for the FSA not to use this famous six-month rule by automatic means.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516152321	Thank you, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby. There are no more brief comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's line to Mr Beyer de Ryke. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516152336	As the rapporteurs of the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party have also said, I note that this is a motion for a resolution which we have dealt with several times here in the Danish Parliament. In the Left, we have been opposed to this in the past, and we have continued to do so, so let me just outline a few of the reasons for this. Basically, we do not think it is a state task to be a mortgage provider. The State will thus risk having to act as a company for those who cannot obtain loans under normal conditions and there is a high risk that they will be persons where the economy is assessed not to be suitable for receiving mortgage loans. It will then mean that it will be a company with a high risk of not being profitable, and the SF itself has come up with that recognition, in that it talks about a state guarantee, subsidy or otherwise a company to which the State and thus taxpayers have to pay. It will also require the State to set up credit rating systems that the State does not have at present, because it is basically the private market today that is making sure that people can get one or the other loan. And then there is probably a relatively obvious risk that this would be contrary to the EU's State aid rules in this area. Does this mean that this is not something we take seriously in the Left? No, it certainly does not, and that is why it was precisely one of the themes on which we were very concerned while we were in opposition. And, like so many other areas, we are going to think the same thing when we sit in government. Even when the report on funding in our rural areas came a year and a half ago, the then Left Government broke up with the six-month rule and the rules on availability were also relaxed. Basically, the best way to ensure the possibility of obtaining a loan also in our rural areas is for the economy to start in our rural areas so that jobs and prosperity are created and there is faith in the future. The fact that money can be made from borrowing money is, in fact, the best way to support development, and one can safely say that is something that the two governments that have been since 2015, that is, the current government and then the pure Left Government right after the last parliamentary elections, have taken care of. A number of initiatives have been taken to ensure a Denmark in better balance and growth and development throughout Denmark. I can mention the relocation of state jobs, increased efforts for tourism, and we are liberalising the planning act. We also abolish the PSO tax, which has affected many production companies located in our rural areas, and the list is much longer. I believe that over 120 specific initiatives have been carried out over the last two years, and it is precisely because we have the political ambition to create a better balance in Denmark and that there must be ample opportunity to work and live in all parts of Denmark. This is and remains the best condition for companies to invest and lend to people so that they can settle. Therefore, there is a long cool move to ensure a Denmark in better balance, and it will also help to support the possibility of financing its accommodation cheaply. For many, this will be through the mortgage credit system, and it may also be by other means. It is beneficial that there is a broad market with different offers, and I therefore believe that it is not beneficial for the state to interfere in that market. The only involvement of the state must be that the economy is in progress, and we can see that the rural statement that we discussed the other day shows that there are very many positive stories to tell about our rural areas and that development has turned. I think we should be happy about that, and perhaps we should be better at talking it up instead of talking down so much of Denmark and thus getting people to worry instead of saying: there are plenty of good stories and progress out there. It also helps to ensure that lending opportunities are improved. That is why we in the Left cannot support the SF motion for a resolution, and I have promised to welcome the Conservatives and say that they cannot support the proposal either.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516152830	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516152835	I hope that the rapporteur's speech does not mean that there is no problem in many rural areas. I don't want to interpret it that way. Very many people with healthy finances it is both people who have a business that might want to expand, or people who want to buy a home • get turned down again and again and again. There may be different reasons for this. One of them is precisely the rate of turnover. It is feared that if turnover is too slow in many rural areas, it will adversely affect the prices of the other houses. But then you will help to create the negative spiral, because it will not be bought and sold at the rate we would like. A model may be that it should be carried out on market terms, that is to say, where there might be a risk, the interest rate should, of course, reflect it. We would like this to be made superfluous by pressing mortgage banks to ensure that people with a healthy rural economy can get a loan.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516152943	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516152945	If the SF was concerned with this situation, it may well be surprising that, while you were in government and in the office of Minister of Business, you did not do anything about the six-month rule, which helped to limit the possibility of obtaining a loan, because if there was no prospect of a property being put into circulation within six months, the rules effectively blocked the possibility of obtaining a mortgage. SF's Minister of Business was not prepared to do anything about this. Fortunately, this has been abolished. Then perhaps I think that SF should think very carefully, because what SF says and the consequence of that is that then you have to break with the principle of solidarity in our mortgage system, that is to say that you pay the same in interest rates. So, in rural areas, mortgage loans are more expensive, and I do not think that is helpful for the development of our rural areas, and that is certainly not a clue that we intend to pursue from the left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516153038	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516153040	But there have already been some, what to say, alternative lending companies, the Outside Bank, etc., where this is precisely reflected in interest rates. This is about people who can afford it, and they want to pay a little more interest if they can get that house and they have a healthy economy, and I therefore believe that there is ideology in this on the Left side because they say it is a state bank and you turn a blind eye to spending 26 billion. kr. In the case of business support for all sorts of companies, many good projects, but companies where, on the basis of that ideology, it is said that they must take care of this themselves in a free market. So we're gonna go in and get involved somewhere else. Then why not help these people in rural areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516153123	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516153125	I think it is interesting if the SF wants to break up with the biggest business support schemes we have in Denmark, and that is for the whole green transition. Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen could get that impression. After all, we are doing exactly what is right: to ensure that there is progress, that there are jobs, that some of the taxes that have been most hampering businesses in our rural areas are abolished. We're relocating state jobs. We are liberalising a planning law that SF thinks is quite awful that we are liberalising. We are making an agricultural and food package that increases employment in our rural areas... it is the best medicine to ensure prosperity in our rural areas... and we have removed some of the barriers that have prevented Danes from obtaining mortgages. We are absolutely not sitting on our hands.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516153211	Thank you, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. I'm standing here, sir. Pelle Dragsted as rapporteur, but I need to know if it's Mr. Pelle Dragsted. Rune Lund, representing Enhedslisten. That's it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516153235	In the Enhedslisten we certainly have sympathy for this proposal, and although it is a re-presentation, it is, after all, the continuation of a long and important debate on the financing of housing and small businesses in the outermost regions. The fact is that the market is not working and that the problem cannot be resolved on market terms. Other means are needed. Whatever you say or whether you sing it, or whether you dance it, you just have to say that what it takes to solve this is a public solution, a state involvement in crediting in our outlying districts. In our view, there is perhaps a slight weakness in the SF's proposal. We'd like it to be a little sharper in the contours. According to the proposal, the State is required to enter only with a certain amount of deficit coverage or a subsidy on interest rates. But okay, that's a good suggestion. If it had been up to us, it would have been a slightly firmer model. We have put forward proposals for a genuine rural bank, a state money and credit institution, which will be responsible for lending in rural areas to the extent that private financial institutions do not want to. We're among other things. inspired by the Norwegian Husbanken and the Icelandic Housing Financing Fund. Not least the Husbanken we are inspired by. In both countries, however, these credit institutions grant loans and subsidies on the basis of criteria of distribution of different kinds. What you can see from Husbanken's 2013 annual report is that according to them, it has been possible to improve housing standards and the distribution of housing, even in parts of the country. In other words, if we want a certain development, for example. more settlement and more small businesses in the outermost regions, a development that the market cannot accommodate, then we, the community and the community, must step in rather than stand by and be passive observers of a development that we do not want. We may also find it a little strange that a government party such as the Left, which would otherwise like to appear as a party which deals with the outermost regions, is so united and market-fundamentalist that they even refuse to let the state play a role in financing here, since the market cannot complete the task. The Enhedslisten's proposal for a rural bank is, after all, a proposal that has been supported by the Rural Council, and that includes a large number of municipalities, some 40 municipalities, 25 of which have a Left Mayor at the forefront. It is therefore not exactly possible to say that it is a socialist front organisation that is behind the support for Enhedslisten's proposal for a rural bank, but it is probably some people who have a practical approach to life and to politics and who want to create concrete solutions to specific problems. I have also noted that Martin Damm, mayor of Kalundborg and chairman of the National Association of Municipalities, said a year and a half ago, and so it is a Left politician: "There are ordinary families with two incomes who in some postal numbers find it difficult to obtain loans for a otherwise relatively cheap house. And then the market doesn't work. We also have the mayor of Aabenraa, Thomas Andresen, who is also the Leftman, and he has said: "An extraordinary situation requires extraordinary action... If we only let the market decide, then... there will be too large areas of our country that simply will not be populated. It is a statement by a Leftman with whom I am terribly in agreement, and it must be said that these are words that are clear. As I said, I do not believe that it is possible to accuse either Martin Damm or Thomas Andresen of having socialist tendencies, but they are practitioners and they know that there is a practical problem to be solved. And if we are to ensure a Denmark in balance, which is a country that does not break over, then we need to get a greater degree of community involvement to help these solutions along the way. As you can hear from my rapporteur's speech, we can of course support the proposal of the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516153711	There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516153714	Thank you. I'm really glad. Now we've also been debating this sometimes, so it doesn't come as the big surprise to me, and I think it sounds exciting with this rural bank. It is also exciting what they do in Norway, because there they really do something to make that country hang together, and they are even more challenged than us because it is a huge country. But there they have really decided that Norway should be united. I just want to hear out of curiosity where our proposal and the proposal you are making now differ. It is true that we focus on mortgages for both citizens and companies in rural areas, and there may be different models: it may be market rates, it may be state-guaranteed loans, etc. In many places there are no risks. That is our argument, and I hear that is the rapporteur's argument, but you cannot get loans anyway, and then the interest rate will be reflected in it, and there will actually be no interest rate. So it was only if the rapporteur could tell us a little more about his own proposal. After all, politicians do not usually feel sorry for having to speak.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516153820	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516153821	My starting point is the text of the proposal itself: the proposal calls on the government to set up a special mortgage institution which can operate either on market terms with a higher interest rate or supported by the State either in the form of a certain deficit coverage or through interest rate subsidies. Maybe that's the same thing we're talking about. I read it a little differently from what we on the Enhedslisten think is the solution, but maybe I'm wrong. What we want, at any rate, is to create a genuine rural bank, a state money and credit institution, which will be responsible for lending, and if that is what is also included in this, then the proposal is just even better.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516153905	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516153906	I think it is the same, because the final point in the comments on our proposal is: if the additional risk of lending in the outermost regions is small or zero, the additional interest rate will also be small or zero. It just reflects the risk, so in this way there would not necessarily be any special interest rate or deficit coverage or anything. One would say that we think there are a lot of people out there who have good projects, they have a healthy economy, and therefore, of course, they must also be able to have a loan reflected in that interest rate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516153943	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516153945	I have noted that this proposal seems to be closer to that of the Enhedslisten than I might have read immediately. However, regardless of how exactly the proposal is to be understood, we are of course positive about the proposal, as I started by saying.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516154000	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516154004	Thank you, sir. President. It reminds me a little of Christmas Eve, I really do not know why, but I have the impression that Enhedslisten is busy spending some money when you want to be bank manager in something called the rural bank. It costs me well-known money to set up a bank, and I would like to know if Enhedslisten has made some calculations as to what this excellent fantasy proposal will amount to.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516154028	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516154030	We take the view that when we see that the market cannot function and when we see that we have a problem to solve, this is a problem that we can even see we have a solution to, a solution that is broadly supported politically, for example. We are also supported by the Joint Council of Rural Regions, which consists of some 40 municipalities, so we think we have a good idea. And we are sure that such banking or a public mortgage institution can run around because we can see today that there are people who have a healthy economy but who, because they have a certain postal code, are unable to borrow, and we can see that there are companies that earn money and create jobs, but who, because they are located in a particular place in the country, cannot borrow money. There we can see that the market cannot function, and then we think that it is in everyone's interest to have a loan in the interests of the public, in the interests of the company, in our interest as a country to maintain and further develop jobs. That is why we know that such a loan finance institution is needed, and we are also many outside Enhedslisten's ranks who think it is a good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516154137	Here you go, Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516154140	I also need a Ferrari, but I just can't afford it. The rapporteur has not given me a single answer as to what calculations have been made. How much does this bank cost, as Enhedslisten suggests? Where's the money coming from? How is this to be financed? And how much money does it take? All the rapporteur does is to feel in the Enhedslisten that there is a need. That's all I've heard. It's clean air. Can we be told where the money will come from and how much it will cost?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516154211	I would point out that this is a motion for a resolution from the SF which we are debating at the moment. Here you go to the rapporteur of the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516154217	We can see that there are people who make good money and that there are companies that make good money but cannot borrow today. The market isn't working. We can therefore see, and we can see this, together with a large number of other people who relate to reality and the specific problems that exist in the outermost regions, that the public sector has to step in. It is, of course, by granting a loan which makes economic sense. And it makes economic sense to allow people and businesses to borrow money and it is people who have good income and companies who earn money. That is why we have presented a model for how to create such a mortgage institute, and it is a model of which we are very proud, and we are also proud that 25 municipalities, with the Left Mayors in the lead, have been out to praise our proposal and back it up.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516154302	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516154303	I have always learned to worry when there are politicians here in the Folketing who think that something is such a good idea that they cannot understand why no one else is already doing it, and that we in the Folketing therefore have to take on this task, and I get a little worried when I hear that Enhedslisten thinks that it is then strange why nobody wants to make this money and that the state has to do it. It is clear that we are looking at things a little differently from what is a core task for a welfare society. I have to say that it is striking if what Enhedslisten says should stand up to believers and then we see that there is currently a positive trend in house prices in the majority of the country and that the turnover on the housing market in almost all the municipalities in the country is increasing. But why? It is because there is economic development in our rural areas that is positive because a majority in the Folketing, of which Enhedslisten is not a part, has chosen to ensure that there is progress throughout Denmark. This helps to ensure a housing market that is far better than that expressed by Enhedslisten and SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516154412	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516154415	I do not know whether the progress in Denmark is due to the billion savings in SKAT, which have made the money flowing out of the Treasury, or it is due to the sale of DONG to Goldman Sachs, who has thrown the money into tax havens, and who has made a two-digit billion in one-and-a-half years; I do not know whether it was the responsible economic policy that was good for Denmark to which the questioner referred. What I am talking about up here from the platform is, of course, that, in our opinion, there is also a need, in the current situation, for there to be credit and lending opportunities for rural areas, because they do not have sufficient opportunities to borrow under the conditions provided by the market. That is why we have come up with a proposal for a rural bank and a public mortgage institution, and I have to say that if this is such a terrible idea, Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen might be talking to some of the 25 mayors from the Rural Council, mayors from the Left, who have been out to praise the Enhedslisten for this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516154515	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516154517	Well, you get a little worried. One might well wonder why Enhedslisten has supported a red government that led the sale of DONG and that Enhedslisten has voted in favour of finance laws that have led to fewer employees in SKAT, and I do not know whether it is such a kind of penance that is now trying to go with this. And I am sure that there are Left Mayors around who, at a moment of weakness, can be deceived by the happy message, when the reality is that this will mean that there will be some who cannot get a sensible loan and who will risk being cut off from it when the real solution is to ensure a prosperity in all parts of Denmark, so there is someone who believes in development.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516154601	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516154604	The Enhedslisten has not voted for a single reduction or deterioration in the SKAT. The only Finance Act with which new impairments in SKAT were adopted was the Finance Act 2014 and that was the Finance Act agreed by S-R-SF with the bourgeois. 400 posts were filled in SKAT. It is so true that there have been previously agreed cuts in the SKAT, which have also had an effect on the years in which, for example, there has been an increase in tax revenue. The Enhedslisten has also been included in a Finance Act, but these are already agreed savings which we have not been able to get into the negotiations. But all new deteriorations in the SKAT have never voted in favour of Enhedslisten. And I just have to say that Left Mayors around the country think that Enhedslisten has a very sensible policy in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516154643	Then it's mr. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516154646	I couldn't help but meddle. I do think that the rapporteur is getting a hard shot at some rather visionary ideas. If we were to make full funding of this proposal, which is not even the rapporteur's, then it is a great demand to make. Of course we can talk about where the money comes from, but I think that this is an interesting idea in every way, and I would like to ask the rapporteur, although we are critical of the proposal as it is here from the SF, whether the rapporteur would like a solution where it was precisely a higher interest rate that financed, that is, where there were no subsidies, because then we would certainly be more in favour of the proposal. We would like to see the aid stopped at some point, as did the green conversion. At some point it has to be sustainable in itself, and I find that difficult to see here. Could it be imagined that this was something that should not be supported, perhaps after a period of 10-15 years? Can the rapporteur see whether it will be able to bear itself? Because it's hard for me to see right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516154742	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516154742-2	Our proposal is based on the creation of a rural bank and a state financial and mortgage institution, which runs around in itself, which is a business which rests in itself and which should not be supported. We believe that there are good opportunities for this when we see that there are people who have a reasonable economy and earn good money but who live in the countryside and who, for that reason, just because they have a certain postal code, cannot borrow money. It also shows that there is a business, that there is some money to make. You can make a sensible business model by lending these people money. It is actually the same with regard to companies. This is not a proposal that we should pour a lot of billions into a perpetual state aid to a mortgage or a financial institution because it cannot run around in itself. This is supposed to balance itself, and we believe that when we see how many companies and people, despite a sensible economy in recent years, did not have the opportunity to borrow the money they should have been able to borrow.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516154843	Thank you, sir. Rune Lund. There are no more brief comments. And we move on to Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516154851	Thank you, sir. President. As several rapporteurs have mentioned in the past, we are again considering the SF's proposal to set up a state mortgage institution, and it is probably not the big surprise for the SF that we cannot support such a proposal. It is not and should never become a state task to run a mortgage or bank for that matter. It has, as it were, been a premise for the debate here today that the market is not working, and that is a wrong premise. The market is functioning and it also works in rural areas. In fact, the mortgage sector has hundreds of loans, if not more than a thousand billion kroner in rural areas. And it is not the case that one can say that because there are one or more companies or citizens who cannot get a loan, it is because the market is not working. No, it is the opposite: because the market is working. Banks and mortgage banks earn money. That's how their business is run by lending money, so when they don't want to give a loan, it's because their assessment is that there's no money to make, and thus it's not an indication that the market doesn't work when citizens and businesses can find that they can't get a loan. Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby spoke earlier in the debate about a Ferrari, and if I go down to my bank and would like a loan to a Ferrari, and the bank says: Dear Joachim, we can't offer you the loan yes, it's not an expression that the market doesn't work. On the contrary. So do I try to say here that there are no problems and challenges anywhere in rural areas as well? No, that's definitely not what I'm saying. So what's the answer? But it is, after all, to make the market work better by the fact that we are far less in the way of the market functioning. Initiatives have also been taken, and the agreement on a new law on plans is an example of this. We would have liked there to have gone even further, had provided an even freer regulatory framework for municipalities so that it would be easier to set up businesses; that it would be easier to live in rural areas; that more needed to be done. One of the things that makes house prices rise and has caused them to rise dramatically in this part of the country is, for example, that you can live on the coasts. We have forbidden the need to go out into rural areas. Despite having 8,000 km of beach, you simply cannot live by the water anywhere in rural areas. It was something like this that could make it more attractive for people to move out into what some call Outskirtsdanmark. There are also other places in the Planning Act where you could go further, so it became more attractive both to live and to create businesses in rural areas. There is also the whole question that it may be difficult for municipalities to reduce the tax due to a complicated equalisation system and so on, but that is the way we have to go. I don't think there's anything visionary about this at all. I cannot give examples from the rest of the world where state-run banks and companies have brought anything good with them at all. On the contrary. After all, we see the tragic consequences of socialism these days in Venezuela. We are far from there, but this is an example of how nationalising companies, the financial sector and other things brings terrible things with them. So we cannot in any way support this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516155325	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516155328	Thank you. I'm gonna stop talking nonsense about anyone. I would like to say to the rapporteur that it is not socialism that we have on today's agenda far from it, I think. It was a small cautious socialist attempt to have a small corner where there is also a credit institution which is slightly above market considerations and which may take a little social account. The rapporteur says that there is nowhere in the world where institutions that do not take account of the market but take social considerations into account. That's not true. It's been a huge success with these microloans that work all over the place and that lend out to the people to whom the banks will not lend out on market terms because they think the risk is too high. It has created millions of jobs around the world by taking that particular risk and consideration of the poorest people on this planet, and so it can be in Denmark if we have a credit institution that takes into account that the less well-off economically have the opportunity to buy a house where no one else will buy a house.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516155431	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516155433	No, it is not socialism that is on today's agenda, but this is a step in a socialist direction, as it wants the state to operate financially. I may be wrong, but one of the pillars of socialism is surely that the capital stock, including financial institutions, must be nationally driven. However, it is a small step in this direction, and it is not something that we can support in any way, because we can see that everywhere it has been tried in the world, it has had terrible consequences for real people. It does not bring prosperity. It brings poverty with it. That is why, in my view, the premise of what the rapporteur says is also wrong, because the market economy is, in this way, the best economic model for creating a society in which everyone is well. We really need more of that. We must make the market work better by removing regulatory barriers.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516155541	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Juhl again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516155544	I am impressed by the rapporteur's almost brilliant ability not to go into what I asked. I explained that microloans had just created the ground from below so that poor people could form their own small business. This is a unique example of the fact that if you break the market economy, you can achieve results. In this case, the market doesn't work. Even cheap houses cannot be sold, which means that it is not the market that ensures that scheme. The market is an obstacle to this because the credit unions in the private market do not want to borrow out. Does the rapporteur not see this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516155619	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516155620	No, the rapporteur does not see that. If it were a debate on micro-loans today, I would have entered into micro-loans, and then I am quite convinced that I would have had some pretty good counter-arguments in relation to what Mr. Hans Christian Juhl says, because it is now the case that financial companies make money from borrowing money. That's what they do for a living, so if there's a good deal of business in lending money to underprivileged people in the Third World, too, and that's good if it is, then there's gonna be a market for it. Then again it is not the case that because you cannot sell a cheap house or get loans to buy a house, it is not because the market does not work.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516155704	Then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516155709	There is nothing in this that comes as a surprise, so I would just like to ask the rapporteur two specific questions or actually a question: is it the policy of the Liberal Alliance to close the Export Credit Council and the Growth Fund?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516155723	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516155725	No, that is not our policy, and I understand where the rapporteur is going. This is the discussion on business support, and we would very much like to have less of that. There we are quite consistent. We do not believe that companies should have tax dollars in their backs. We think this is wrong. What we, on the other hand, want is for companies to pay less in tax, so that they can keep more of the money they have earned themselves. It is a good business policy and it is fair. I do not think that is fair and I never think it is fair that companies should be supported with public money.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516155807	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516155810	I am grateful for that honesty, and I also know that this is what the rapporteur thinks, and I think that honesty could be heard from the Left, and I am a little uncertain about what Conservatives think, because there I think the hypocrisy is there. You want to spend a lot of money supporting companies and many good ideas, that's not what I'm saying, but you don't want to spend it on supporting home owners. But when the rapporteur is so ideological and so firm that, of course, we should not have state banks, we already have that, we have a number of state interests in the banks after the financial crisis, that is, the private financial crisis, but why would the Liberal Alliance not have closed the Export Credit Council and the Growth Fund, if the rapporteur is so opposed to spending state funds on such things here?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516155900	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516155902	Nor is it the case that we could not be persuaded to do so. Our policy is that we want less business support. If we had 90 mandates, I am not sure they would continue to exist either. One can take something like Denmark's Export Credit, which I also find problematic in its present form, because it only addresses exports, and imports are just as important as exports. There are also plenty of Danish companies who live on imports, so I would certainly go so far as to say that I think we should have a thorough discussion about whether it is screwed together in the right way. I think that this is something from the eighties and that the balance of payments and exports are the only important thing, but that is not correct. Imports are just as important. At least it was a place to start. That would be a step in the right direction, but we would like to see much less business support in return for making the market work better by removing some of the restrictions on companies and citizens in what the rapporteur, Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, calls Udkantsdanmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516160021	Thank you, sir. Joachim B. Olsen. We shall now proceed to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. René Gade from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516160030	Thank you. Last year our excellent temp, Nikolaj Amstrup, who lives in the South Funen, had the rapporteur's speech on this issue. He well explained all the good elements of the SF's proposal. And I actually believe that there are several places in the South Funen and also in the West Jutland, where I am located, where it could be extremely popular to say yes to this. I must admit that I have also become even more positive about the proposal since Nikolaj Amstrup was last. Our own country and city rapporteur, Roger Matthiesen, cannot be here today, and I have actually agreed with him that before we finally decide what we say on this issue, we need to have another discussion. Because we're split. We are divided because we cannot actually see right now how we are going to help the homeowners in the foreseeable future and create the necessary flexibility and dynamism in the areas that this proposal needs to strengthen. On the other hand, we are very much involved in the analysis from the SF, which says that we need to find some alternative, perhaps only for a limited period of time from our point of view, to the usual credit provision. Because today it is not possible, even for those who have the means, to buy a house out there because you simply cannot get it funded. In fact, I thought it was a sensible proposal from the Danish People's Party earlier, in relation to looking at the percentage that could be borrowed. I actually imagine that there are a great many good elements that have also been raised in consultations in the past that could be worked on. It just doesn't mean we can say yes yet, because I don't have a business case that shows that this can actually run around in itself, even though I really believe that it might be good in the future after a running-in period. So in order for the alternative to back this up, we need to be able to see that this is an investment for a number of years ahead, where there will then be an end date, and then it has to be sustainable in itself. It might be that the interest rate paid was slightly higher and that it financed it. This could be by creating some kind of growth in those areas so that they would become more flexible in themselves and could therefore carry normal lending. So I don't have that business case today, which is why I'm still in doubt. I think we will end up saying no to the proposal, but I think it is a pity, because I do not really have the right argument to say what we are doing in the areas. After all, it is a scattered group of people who actually think it is good, as we could hear from some of the rapporteurs in the past. It's not just SF people, it's also Left people who say this is a good idea. So we have a piece of work in the Alternative to find out what our good argument should be that we can say no to this proposal. Because right now, I think it's actually the right thing to do. However, I need to see a financing model that means that it is a business case that can survive this state aid that I see there is a need for for for some time to come. So this is a very lingering matter: we are making a clear statement to the second reading on what we are voting, i.e. whether we are in favour or against. But right now I think it is a very sympathetic proposal in which I actually agree with the intention, but I find it difficult to see that it can be self-supporting over time, because then it should be the case that we saw that there would be a greater attraction in the outermost regions in the future, and that is not the case. Perhaps you could test it in some areas and see if you could have the desired effect, and then we would probably be more positive. But we will come back with a clear attitude when I have spoken to our country and city rapporteur once again.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516160346	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516160349	Thank you. In fact, I believe that the rapporteur spent almost all his speaking time, but the rest of us did not get much wiser. Businesscase was the word I took note of. Does the alternative mean that this is some kind of entrepreneurship? Now I know that the rapporteur is very interested in entrepreneurship, and all honour and respect for it, but I think it might just be a bit obscure to call this a business case, because is that really what you see it as in the alternative? And why should the state go into entrepreneurship in new banks?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516160425	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516160425-2	I do not want to boast that I speak in short, completed sentences, because often there are many commas and phrased sentences, so I am sorry if no one has become wiser. But what I got my way to was that a market bank would benefit from having a sensible business case, and that's why I used that word.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516160443	Well, then I'll say thank you to Mr. Knox. René Gade for the contribution. There's another one. Sir. Joachim B. Olsen must also have the chance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516160456	Thank you. Actually, I forgot my question while I was desperately trying to push the button. But it was this business case thing again. Yeah, I remember now. Is there anything today that prevents citizens in the outermost regions from joining forces to create such a bank that is not profit-driven?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516160525	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516160525-2	This is something close to the dream scenario for us in the Alternative, and these are some of the scenarios we are working on when we are going to create stronger communities, and it was part of the good Nikolaj Amstrup's speech last year when he was in place to fill in on this area. That would be the wish scenario for us, but it is not something that we can legislate on, and perhaps there is also a point in the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur's speech: whether this is something we need to legislate on whether we should see it happen before it is sustainable and whether somebody should take the initiative themselves. I can follow that, and that is why I cannot say a clear yes to it yet. I need to be able to see if we need to find a Danish word for it • a financing model that for a time gets an investment from the state, then it is self-propelled and then can go on without support. I need that before we can vote in favour of it in the alternative. Otherwise, we have to wait for someone to create this momentum in the Danish country.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516160615	The rapporteur. No, I'm sorry. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516160615-2	My point is that there is a picture that there is a huge demand for this in here on the part of the Danish Parliament, and one refers to some mayors, etc., but the demand is obviously not so great that there are enough people in the areas we are talking about here who want to go together and set up a mortgage institute with no profit etc., and that is why we are creating artificial demand here. I guess it's for about 2,000 billion. kr. mortgage lending in rural areas already on the market, and then it's just this extra demand that we're trying to invent in here, because it's not something that anyone goes together and does out in the real world, that is, in the areas we're talking about here today. Isn't that a little thought-provoking?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516160715	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516160716	In the best of all worlds it was so that when people needed something, you went together and created what you needed, because you could just do it. We are very different, for example. My accountant can't do some things that I can't at all, and my lawyer can't do some things that I can't at all. And to the crooked smile from the rapporteur down there, I would say that no, it is not working with numbers, because I understand both numbers and bottom lines. But not everyone can just go out and create a bank, not everyone can just devote time to it in their everyday life with everything else, so I would like to help create the framework for people to see themselves in a constellation that could be a cooperative fund that could be a new setup for a bank that was talked about by Enhedslisten and SF, but in that right now I can't see it in a way where we shouldn't support it from now on and in the future, I can't say conclusively yes from here on from the platform. So I follow the rapporteur's thinking very well, but I think it is a pity if it is to be put in such a position that the citizens themselves should just go out and create everything they need, because then there is no need for us to make legislation to help anyone on the way, either in business or elsewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516160811	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516160813	The rapporteur calls for a business case. Could such a business case be Vestjysk Bank, in which the State already holds the majority shareholding? So it doesn't take much money. We are also familiar with state financial stability, and indeed it is called a garbage can company. So it's not because it takes a lot of effort here and requires powerful means to create the framework that could be around it, and it's also a little a response to Hans Kristian Skibby's earlier speech about where the money is going to come from to this state credit institution or the state bank. In fact, we already have them in the form of Vestjysk Bank or Financial Stability.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516160902	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516160903	Yes, finally. However, in the alternative, we have not yet found a formula that has been able to meet the wishes and demands of some people in these areas, including our constituents and our members. Well, we don't have the plan for it yet, and we don't have a model where we've thought Vestjysk Bank or another bank into being the solution. But I also started by saying that we would very much like to go further in the dialogue. I myself have not been involved in the consultations that have taken place in this area, and it may be that there have been some grain of gold there that we can go ahead with. But we would really, really like to vote in favour of this proposal, if we can see otherwise and now I am quite nervous about using the word, starting with a business model that can also be active in Denmark and useful broadly for the citizens who live out there. So we would very much like to proceed with that. However, I do not see how the motion for a resolution makes it clear what it is like to go further in economic terms. It is being proposed that it should be on its own and that it is not an expense, and I am actually in favour of this: an investment in the first place, and maybe it can run on its own. I just haven't seen it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516160957	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516160958	I would just like to say that I think it is quite fair, and then I would just like to call on the alternative to take into account those considerations in your discussions and in the committee work that is also going to be done, that there are, in fact, both organisations and, for that matter, also the means and resources to go in and create this very quickly.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516161018	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516161019	Perhaps we could also have some of the sceptics in the Chamber there too, i.e. if a very concrete model of how it could be was presented, perhaps also with some of the players from the existing banking system, who then said that it could be done. It is often the case that, if there is a political hat, some people do not really believe that it can be done. So perhaps there could be a case on the part of the proposers if we are going to go further, and otherwise I will certainly be involved in making a report or something similar afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516161040	Thank you, sir. René Gade, and welcome to Mr. Andreas Steenberg of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516161049	Back in 2014, Parliament's Rural and Islands Committee held a hearing on the challenge or problem of lending both businesses and housing in rural areas. In this connection, the director of what was then called the Realkredit Council, Ane Arnth Jensen, said the following, and now I quote: "When industry, schools, libraries, police stations and courts move to quite other places and are centralised in cities, then families move too. The same is true for cultural and leisure activities, and business life dies, of course, in the areas it gives itself. So there it becomes less attractive to live, and then you are inside the circle that has begun. That is what is at the heart of the problem and that development cannot be reversed by the mortgage taking on more risks. ▪ I thought that was wise. If you look at a town like Klitmøller, you can't see that there's a problem with mortgaged houses. For Klitmøller is in a rapid development with lots of activity. You've come up with this concept called Cold Hawai, where you're creating a lot of activity in connection with surfing and everything else, and that makes it possible to sell the homes there and get them mortgaged from the mortgage. Then there may be other areas where there is no activity and where it is then difficult to obtain loans. But the core of the problem is to create some activity in these areas, and then the banks and capital come too. In the Radical Left, we are, after all, a social liberal party, and we do not just think that one should stand up as a liberal and say: what cannot stand should fall, and you are your own lucky blacksmith. We think the state can go in and regulate, but we would much rather use different state policies than say that the state is now going into business. One could, for example: ensure that there were educational institutions throughout the country, that infrastructure investment could be used to create some activity, that cultural investment could be used to create some activity, and that urban renewal funds could be taken and moved to rural areas instead of just using them in Copenhagen. There are a great many policies, and the SF rapporteur has also mentioned that you have the Growth Fund, growth guarantee loans, the Innovation Fund, and you have the Market Measurement Fund. There are, of course, a lot of different arrangements that specifically go in and solve some challenges, and we believe that this is the way to go and not that the state takes over the task because there is no activity, and therefore we would much rather make some other gripes. If you need some money, we will, for example. rather use them to create education. Now we are discussing bringing together production schools and VUCs, I think it is 25-30 places in the country, and once again it is some centralism where it is concentrated in the large cities, and it is once again relocation, and then there is less activity, and hence fewer people will borrow in those areas. Another point I think this proposal overlooks is that of running a bank. I think this is going to change completely. When I talk to Finance Denmark and with organisations representing small and medium-sized enterprises, they say that this is about borrowing 10, 20, 30 or 100 million. kr. The banks will no longer take on entrepreneurship, even here in Copenhagen, and that is where I think we should start working to promote quite different forms of loans and capital injections in our companies. After all, the trade union movement has started a debate a few months ago, saying that one of the big questions will be: how can one get some of the capital that is held by private individuals, in the very large companies, companies and in pension funds, played into the hands of entrepreneurs and new businesses? Could it be crowdfunding? The former Left Government had a proposal to give an extra deduction when people wanted to invest in start-ups. All such proposals, which can benefit rural areas, but also urban entrepreneurs, are interesting to me. How do we create a completely new capital market when we are probably in a situation where banks generally take fewer risks and therefore do not have the courage to borrow 10 million? kr. or 100 million kr. For someone who has an idea? So I think that, in the whole business sector, we need to rethink it completely and not just come up with an old-fashioned solution, which is that we must continue to have a bank, and then the state takes it over because the banks are developing into something else. I think there is much more to try to create a framework for some new markets. There has been a discussion about what is called corporate bonds, where you pool loans for business and sell them to pension funds and so create a new way of financing business. All such solutions are more concerned with us than such a relentless solution that the state will then take over. No, let's see if we can create the framework for something new. The last thing I want to mention is that the housing tax agreement we made for, I think, approx. 2 weeks ago, yes, time goes fast when you're busy and you're also going to mean something. Because we have seen a huge loan in the big cities because the prices of housing have just increased and increased, among other things. Because the increases have not, after all, been taxed. We are now getting something done about this, and everything else should be done to ensure that the market is more leveled and better and therefore also for the benefit of rural areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516161646	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516161647	Thank you. It was a lot of time that the rapporteur spent talking about entrepreneurship when this proposal is basically about people having to afford to live somewhere, also in order to be entrepreneurs. I agree that there are many exciting stories from Klitmøller and Læsø and Samsø there are many places where you say that you are now trying to use some local peculiarity to brand your area or create jobs and these things. However, there are also very many places where it is a basic problem, and there are large areas in Denmark where this is a negative spiral. Because when houses are not bought and sold, lying times generally get longer, and that affects all house prices negatively, and then it just goes into battle. However, the rapporteur has just said that all these aid schemes already exist, and that is actually what I used as an argument to say that it is not new for the state to go in and give a little boost where the market does not quite work. It may be entrepreneurship aid schemes, it may be Export Credit Council, and it may be the Growth Fund, etc. etc. For we say: the market is not perfect, and if they need a little help, we would like to support it. It's actually kind of the same thinking here. We would like private people to come in if they feel they can do it as well or cheaply.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516161813	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516161814	The reason I spent some time on entrepreneurship was because in the proposal you also mention commercial properties, so you have both private homes and professions, and I think entrepreneurship is important. I believe that the basic problem is that there is too little activity. That is what we need to go in and try to create through state funds, and I do not believe that such a new bank will do that, because it will not solve the fundamental challenge. So I would much rather go in and, for example, go in. spend some money on energy policy to create some jobs that make there is money between people that they then spend in stores and to buy houses, and in this way turn the development around, and that is why I used Klitmøller as an example. Because there has been a reversal of the trend, and then there are loans. So it is such a bit of a discussion about the chicken and the egg, I think, and there I think the proposal solves the wrong problem. I would like to make it clear that there is a lack of activity. If the activity is there, I also believe that the mortgage and the banks will come.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516161914	Then we say thank you to Andreas Steenberg. There is now room for a Conservative rapporteur, but it does not appear that they will use their rapporteur time, so we move on to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516161940	Thank you. Thank you for the debate and thank you for all the comments. Thanks to those who directly support the proposal, such as Enhedslisten and as the Alternative to find out if you were for or against. But I can really understand the thinking. And to DF, I would say that when it sounds as if you recognise that there is a problem, but that you completely refuse to do something about it, I am not quite sure if I understood where DF stands. However, we are very susceptible to amendments to the way in which this is done, because we think that the problem is so great. That is also why it is the third time in a short space of time that we have put it forward. We have done so because we sometimes see that the time should really be ripe or that the timing should be right, and then there are things that are adopted. So it's not to waste Parliament's time. Sometimes there's something that needs to be market matured. That's what I think our minister would call it before the time is right. But we see some things in these years, namely that the effects of the financial crisis have gone on in some of the big cities, where prices are galloping off... it's about Copenhagen and some of the other major cities... and it's actually the main problem in those cities that it's become so expensive that it's hard for people to afford to buy something. And you see the opposite problem in some rural areas, where certain mortgage credit institutions actually believe that houses can become too cheap, and are worried about turnover, etc. Once we have made this proposal, I will have to ask for a little quiet down there. You can get the President to ask for that. We'd like a little quiet down there. ) Thank you. It could be that the rapporteur of the Left and the Conservative Minister could also come up with some kicks later, if you think there are some improvements you could make, not necessarily from this proposal. However, our resolution is, of course, about ensuring that there can be loans for anyone who has a healthy economy. Some people have suggested that this would just end in a raging of bad loans: have we not learned anything from the financial crisis? And it is simply a strawman. That's not what this is about. It is about the many, many examples we hear about and we get presented where people with a completely healthy economy cannot be allowed to borrow money for a home or where business owners, for example. cannot be allowed to expand their business. A concrete example was a merchant in Øster Brønderslev, who had a business that went brilliantly. He wanted to expand, and he could for a long, long time not be allowed to, because it was in Øster Brønderslev. What the person who gave him the message did not know was that it actually went very well in Øster Brønderslev, but it might just sound a little outskirtsy. That is the problem we are facing: some people are taking decisions in this country that are not in touch with what is happening in rural areas. I do not really agree with the radical rapporteur now that he is still in the Chamber, who said that there are different buttons to turn on. We fully agree with that, but it does not have to be one over the other. It is not the case that there can be no entrepreneurial spirit while ensuring that people can actually borrow money to buy a house. These things must go hand in hand, because of course some things must also happen in rural areas. But we see bell-clear examples that developments are actually being held down because of this problem. That is also why the Joint Council of Rural Regions, which represents 40 municipalities, has repeatedly supported this proposal. That is why Martin Damm, President of the KL, has said that this is something that needs to be done. That's why we hear bourgeois mayors say 'cause they don't look for party color when they're out there; they look for what their municipality needs to do, either our proposal or something similar to it. We have also been inspired by the Housing Financing Fund in Iceland and by the Husbanken in Norway, because it has just been said, and now I am quoting, that it is possible to improve housing standards and the distribution of housing, even in parts of the country, which private credit institutions do not give priority to. It is a clear priority both in Norway and Iceland that housing funding should be ensured in all parts of the country. When I've asked a little polemical about these business support schemes, it's not because I'm against them, not all of them, at least I can probably find one or two, but a lot of them are good. They support that some can just get a push, can get a little help. There are entrepreneurship schemes, there are export schemes, there are green schemes, there are credit schemes, there are everything between heaven and earth, and that is actually up to 26 billion. kr. And I think some of that is very fine, because I do not subscribe to a liberal agenda that there is a perfect market out there just waiting for both homeowners and businesses to move on to it. There are a lot of market failures, as some would call it, and it is our job to go in and help there, whether it's about promoting green energy, to provide some financial support to entrepreneurs and young people who want to start a business, or, of course, to ensure that it's a basic social task that people can live all over the country. This isn't new either. In other words, we had a financial crisis in 2007 and 2008, where it must be noted that the whole private system went cucumber, which exploded and where the state had to step in with a billion-dollar safety net. I mean, it was 3,000 billion. kr., which the state had to extend to the private sector. And that's why I think it's a little funny when we keep hearing that the state can't figure out how to run a bank, that we should let the private sector do that. Well, it was the state that stepped in when the whole system crashed. 49 banks had state guarantees • what we now think is fair that citizens can eventually get if that is the model they choose. And in 2009 the state was co-owner of every other bank in Denmark. Of course, this was not a desirable situation because everything had gone wrong in the private sector. But my point is that if you only have to step in when you have to hold your hand under private, but not when it comes to ensuring that our country can hang together, that it does not break over the fact that people can also live at Lolland and in Thy and elsewhere, because it has a value in itself, then I think it is weird. Then I think it's weird that you want to spend 26 billion. kr. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal. kr. as a safety net for private banks, that for a period you will go in and be co-owner of half of the Danish banks. Because we have to be consistent, and I would like to pay tribute to Mr Tugendhat. Joachim B. Olsen. I think he has been consistent and said that we should not touch that at all. I don't agree, but I think it's fine. However, I think it is hypocrisy of the worst drawer when we spend so many billions holding hands under companies and helping them along the way when we say that there are some market failures that we want to correct or when we want to help small businesses on the way, but do not want to help the citizens out there who are experiencing market failures and who see that what works very well on Østerbro in Copenhagen just does not work very well with them, because there is not the same willingness to lend money. And that's why I think this is fair. It is fair that we should at least try it out. It is not something new that has been tried before, and that is my final comment: you did it with FIH. And before there are any good jokes about what happened to FIH, I would like to say that it was a state bank that was created under a social democratic regime to ensure that Denmark could hang together at a time when there were challenges. Then it was when there was privatisation and came a financial crisis and everything that FIH completely cracked and imploded. But for decades it actually worked so well that Poul Schlüter posted 200 million. kr. In it. And Mr. Schlüter was a wise man. We know that. He could see the idea in a Denmark that was connected, and therefore he posted 200 million. kr. in FIH. That was my last comment. Thank you for all the inputs. I guess we'll see each other again on this subject, I promise. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516163003	That will not be the rapporteur's last comment unless the rapporteur refuses to reply to two brief comments. The first one's from sir. Joachim B. Olsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516163010	Thank you. Thank you, too, to the SF for tabling the motion for a resolution, because it has brought with it a good debate. However, I find it interesting that Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen is using this argument which deals with the financial crisis and banking packages. As you know, the financial crisis started in the United States with mortgage banks that went downside and back, and the interesting thing was that it was not fully private mortgage banks; it was semi-public mortgage banks that went downside and back, and that they chose not to save. That is where the crisis started, i.e. in semi-public mortgage institutions. So I really don't understand the whole point of talking about market failures. Yes, there are market failures, but this is not an example of market failures. Market failures arise when you cannot send the bill to those who, for example, are not able to send the bill. It is not possible for the market itself to regulate this, and then the public authorities must intervene, or because of infrastructure, etc., where the public authorities have to intervene. But the fact that everyone who wants a loan cannot obtain a loan is not a market error. And there have been public mortgage banks, as we have done, for example. So in the United States, and that certainly did not bring any good, because there they have a much less liberal market than we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516163137	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516163139	In the United States there were subprime loans and financial tools, derivatives and all sorts of weird constellations that were subsequently banned. The debt was bought and repacked to a degree so that it eventually became opaque; that is right. It was very much a financial system that went crazy in greed because in the short term it was possible to make an incredible amount of money from this. And then there was a lack of regulation because people who could not afford to buy a house were allowed to do so anyway. It was the whole idea of subprime loans. What we are proposing is that people who have a fine economy should be allowed to borrow. It is, of course, based on some market principles, where what you can afford to sit for two incomes, if it is about the constellation of mother, father and two children, is what you are allowed to borrow. It's not about giving insecure loans or loans to people who can't afford it. That's not what this is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516163242	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516163244	It is absolutely true that the crisis in the United States was not an example of market failure. It has just one example of regulation, such as: said that people should have the right to a loan. Something was found which was considered to be market errors, for example. It was harder to get loans, even though they had the same economy as whites, and then they went in and said that some people should have the right to a loan, also in certain areas. It broke down. It is not a market error, it is a political error. And, as I said, it was semi-public mortgage banks that went downstairs and home. So I think that the whole premise for what Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen says is simply not related to the reality and what we have discovered in the real world. That is why I find it very strange that we want a public mortgage institution with the dangers that this clearly entails.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516163345	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516163346	I think it's a little funny. For what caused it to go completely crazy, the new financial tools that were put into use were where so much debt could be stored away and there was some delay before the market could see how miserable some of these loans were and how much the debt was. What Denmark has been criticised for subsequently in the report on the financial crisis is precisely that we were even worse equipped and the crisis became even more expensive and deeper in Denmark because of some political choices that had been made at the time. Let me just repeat: this is about healthy loans to people who have a healthy economy... whether you are a business owner or would like to buy a house... but who cannot be allowed to borrow because they live in a particular postal code. So it is actually completely in line with the rest of the market; we correct a market error.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516163449	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516163451	Thank you. If you look at the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, it says, among other things: proposes a model where it should be extended with a deficit cover or alternatively an interest subsidy to the individual property owner. If you get a higher interest expense than you would get at other mortgage institutions, you will be able to get an additional interest subsidy to make up for that difference. This is one of the models proposed by the SF. But with regard to the issue of deficit coverage, I was just wondering: what if there are deficits in other mortgage institutions? If we look at the accounts for 2014 in Nykredit, which is the largest in the market, we see that they actually had a deficit in 2014 of 186 million. kr. How will SF relate to other market players running with deficits? We do not know what the business cycle is in 2018, 2019 or 2020. Will the SF also support the extension of deficit coverage for those who are in deficit, such as Nykredit?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516163559	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516163601	I think it is quite a leap to talk about credit institutions having deficits. Money is being made as never before, and to a degree, so that the billions are being transferred to the banks, which are their parent companies, one might say. The mortgage banks are making a lot of money. There were some years after the financial crisis, when there were write-downs and some other things. The amount of money that Mr. His Kristian Skibby mentions, after all, is a drop in the ocean compared to the total loan amount. But this is also more than well paid for by means of the extremely high rates of contributions. That is how the market is going on, in other words, a market where there is no healthy competition in our optics. There are no deficits anymore. There are formidable surpluses as far as the eye can see, and at the same time there are only rising contributions rates. So we do not believe in any way that there is a functioning market among private mortgage institutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516163712	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516163713	If you look at Nykredit's annual accounts for 2015, you can see that what they made money on was that there were extremely many loan restructurings and thus many extraordinary revenues as fees for people converting their loans. The second thing they made really good money on was alternative investments, that is to say investments, because you had money that you could put on the coffin floor, but which you chose to invest in other things that were not specifically related to mortgages. That's when you made a lot of this money. However, that does not change, and the rapporteur has to say that if you look at the 2014 financial year, you will see that Nykredit came out with a deficit of 186 million. kr. So I just ask the rapporteur: if it is now proposed here today that we should be able to provide a deficit cover in this possibly state-owned company, what about deficit cover in the other mortgage companies?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516163805	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516163807	I simply do not fully understand this debate. Is it a debate that we should feel sorry for the mortgage banks, which in these years earn billions of kroner, and who transfer a fairly large part of their profits to Danske Bank and the other large banks that own them? I just don't understand. In other words, if it is a question of having had a smaller deficit for a year, it should have been covered by own funds. It's a model you can use here too. The difference will just be that this model will be public, and therefore there will be no billions of kroner to be paid out to the banks and thus to the shareholders. That will, of course, be the difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516163854	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516163857	When I hear the SF's rapporteur, it sounds like you are not interested in making money, whether you are a mortgage or a financial institution or otherwise. Because it is evidently said that there are some who, according to the SF, have such a good economy, it is almost money in the bank, and then you choose not to borrow out anyway. And then SF believes that then the state can assess or the state must go in and give a deficit guarantee, and then everything is good. I think it is a pity that the SF will not look at what is really important, namely whether there is positive economic development and there is confidence in the development of our rural areas. That is actually what the Left has not only talked about, but has also implemented over 120 initiatives in relation to since the change of government in 2015. We can see that in virtually all municipalities there is an increase in lending, we can see that sales rates in the real estate market are increasing and that housing prices are rising in all parts of the country, not only in the metropolitan area and in East Jutland so that there is progress. Then it's just a shame that SF, with this discussion today, is talking things down and saying it's completely impossible. I just want to hear the SF very strongly about whether you think you are promoting the lending opportunities in rural areas by speaking in the way you have done for the last 11⁄2-2 hours.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516164032	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516164034	I think it means a great deal to see whether there is growth and development in an area, that you can get mortgages, both to buy and sell homes, so that there is also mobility, and also to companies, because companies are also large borrowers of mortgage loans. That's where I'm gonna get. I don't know about sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen has many inquiries, including from business owners, who may have a small company where things are going very well, and you want to expand, but you cannot be allowed to borrow money. It provokes me when you look at the figures and see that there could actually be a chance, but there are banks and mortgage banks that have a strategy to concentrate their business where there is the most to earn. I think that on top of a financial crisis in which the Danes risked 3 000 billion. kr. from the financial sector, it is fair to say that we really want everyone who has a healthy economy to get loans. It's not like that today. I met a banker in Aalborg a few weeks ago. He wants to remain anonymous, because he was actually furious that his own employer consistently said that he should say no to people who came with healthy projects that were small business owners. But it just sounds like we have very different views about things.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516164209	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516164210	It is not a question of me not recognising that there are challenges, but a question of which medicines work best. What is SF's message is that you should have the right to a loan... you should have the right to a loan. I believe that the SF needs to look a little more closely at how it went with mortgage lending for both financial institutions and mortgage institutions under the financial sector, because I think there are some conditions that I am not entirely sure the SF is fully in control of. I am just wondering why it is SF's policy that we should have a state-run, state-supported mortgage institution, which, moreover, has SF confirmed during the debate that it should collect loans at a higher price than those that can borrow from the well-known mortgage institutions, so that the solidarity that is in our mortgage system should no longer apply to people living in our rural areas, they should, as a starting point, have a higher interest rate. I do not think this is helpful to the development of our rural areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516164309	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516164310	Maybe it would help if sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen had actually read our resolution. It says at the very end of the remarks: "If the additional risk of lending in the outermost regions is small or zero, the additional interest rate will also be small or zero. This means that if there is no risk, you will get the same interest rate as anywhere else. Our focus is precisely on healthy projects, whether they are companies or homeowners. Then I think that Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen must take note of the statistics contained in the motion for a resolution, if the rapporteur would like to take a look at this: three out of four heads of business in rural and peripheral municipalities in the last two years have become aware of promising entrepreneurial projects in the municipality, which have been refused loans to start business. It is therefore three out of four business managers in rural and peripheral municipalities. I also think you should take their word for good goods.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516164406	Thank you to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. There are no more brief comments. No one else has asked for the floor either, so the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516164426	The debate is open. The first to speak is the Minister for Industry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516164447	Thank you. The proposers have proposed two specific points: that the Act on Restaurants should be amended so that the authorising authority should place emphasis on the decisions of the Equal Treatment Board when examining applications for funding and that the level of compensation for night-time discrimination should be significantly increased. In Denmark, discrimination has already been legislated on, and that is why we in the government believe that the existing rules and remedies are sufficient. Legislation on discrimination in relation to this issue is contained in the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination on grounds of race, etc., which is the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice, and in the Law on Ethnic Equality, both of which contain a prohibition on discrimination on grounds of race, ethnic origin, belief, etc. Under both laws, you can complain if you experience discrimination. In addition, the Equal Opportunities Act prohibits traders from discrimination on grounds of sex, and the proposed change could be seen as very intrusive to the restaurateurs and could potentially have financial consequences for the grant holders. Finally, it is already possible today to refuse a restaurateur an authorization for alcohol and to renew an authorization for alcohol because of a judgment on discrimination. Under certain circumstances, an alcoholic authorization may also be dismissed by a court of law. Both the courts and the Equal Treatment Board deal with cases of discrimination. When it comes to the level of compensation, UIM is responsible for the law on ethnic equality, and it is the Equal Treatment Board that measures and grants compensation to victims of illegal discrimination. That is why I will refrain from commenting on this part of the proposal. The government believes that dialogue with the catering industry is the way forward and therefore cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516164700	There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516164703	Thank you. I do not think there was much kapow in the Minister's speech, and then I wonder whether it is because it has just been written by some official, and this item on the agenda should then also be examined, or whether it is because the Minister thinks there is no problem and that it is therefore a strange motion for a resolution to table, or whether he believes that there may be some problems, but that the legislation is present in order to correct it. I could not quite understand this from the Minister's speech, so would the Minister just make it quite clear to me whether he thinks that there are no problems or that there are problems, but that they can be resolved within the current legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516164748	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516164749	I mean, it's hard for me to say whether there's a splash in the civil servants, but for my part I can say that I think there's a problem with discrimination in nightlife, and I totally agree that discrimination should not take place. The reason why I didn't have so much trouble now I am speaking on my own behalf is that I think the legislation is working well as it is, and I think it is an unnecessary proposal that has come from the SF. We agree that there is a problem in nightlife and that there is discrimination, but that is why new rules need not be invented when there are rules that work. It is also illegal to knock people down on the streets, whether it is discrimination or not, and there we have a set of rules and a police to stop it. We do not make any further legislation because there are illegal acts going on out there on the street.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516164846	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516164848	One in four new Danishsmen has experienced discrimination in nightlife, and the Institute for Human Rights says that there is simply a need for tougher sanctions. What I hear when I meet with organizations working in this area is that the fine level is something that excuses me, you just laugh at as a restaurateur. In other words, as long as the financial sanctions are not harder, or as a matter of principle, we are in a position to lose the allocation, it is just something we live with. I think this is a structural problem and the current legislation is clearly not enough, and the Minister belongs to a party which in all sorts of other areas would like to be so-called tough on crime. So here we do not have the right tools in the toolbox. I do not think we can be familiar with them.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516164945	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516164946	Well, today it is possible to withdraw the alcohol allowance because of a conviction for discrimination. That is the ultimate consequence, and I do not think that as a restaurateur you laugh and say that is ridiculously little, because it is the whole business that you then lose. After all, there is also a law in the Ministry of Industry, outside our area, prohibiting discrimination on grounds of race, etc. We also have, as I mentioned earlier, the Equality Act under the Ministry of Gender Equality and the Law on Ethnic Equality under the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. So we have different rules. I believe that we have the necessary legal basis and I do not think there is any need for further action in this area. There are some things going on that are wrong, but there you have to grab hold of them and see to it that they are judged according to the law in force.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516165037	The questioner. No, that's not true. That is the rapporteur. We thank the Minister and take the first rapporteur. This is Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516165050	The proposal here instructs the government to take the necessary initiatives by the end of 2017 to prevent discrimination in nightlife. This is proposed, among other things. to amend the Act on Restaurants, so that the Boards of Directors must place emphasis on the decisions of the Equal Treatment Board in dealing with grant cases. The Minister also mentioned this. The second part, which the Minister also mentioned, is about increasing the level of compensation by discrimination. The proposal here is, of course, a follow-up to a debate we had last year on exactly the same subject. Here there were a number of elements in the proposal that we in the Socialist Group could not support, among others. Because it removed local self-determination from the appropriations. However, with this proposal, the knots that we were unable to support a year ago have actually been corrected, and so the proposal is left with the focus on discrimination and some tools that can benefit in the fight against what is taking place in the nightlife. Let me be very clear about this, and it must be tjubangish, so there is no misunderstanding about it: in social democracy we regard it as a pillar of our society that all people are treated equally. So when rejected in a disco, it must not be because of identity, sex, or sexuality. We cannot regulate everything with legislation, nor should we, but we can ensure some basic rules that protect against discrimination, and we can do much more to change the culture on which discrimination is based. And that is what this resolution does, we believe, both with the higher fines and also with the link between the Equal Opportunities Board and the appropriations. Thus, the restaurateurs get more at stake and are therefore, hopefully, motivated to treat their guests more equally. And with those words, I must say that we can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516165251	There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516165255	Well, I just wanted to say thank you so much. I actually pressed in because I thought I had to ask about some of the things we also discussed last year, but I just wanted to say a little bit of thanks. I'm really glad. It is important for the SF that the Social Democracy also helps to support this area. We're really happy about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516165318	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mrs Tilde Bork from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516165321	Thank you. Here we are discussing a re-submission of the SF's motion for a resolution on discrimination in nightlife. In the motion for a resolution, the authors of the motion for a resolution themselves state that there is a clear breach of the law in force. There is therefore already a law in force in this area; there are review bodies; there are rules on compensation. It is our impression in the Danish People's Party that we already have the necessary tools to reduce discrimination in nightlife. If enforcement of the law is sufficient, we are prepared to look into it in committee, and if that is not the case, then that is where action is to be taken. The Copenhagen branch has started a collaboration with the City of Copenhagen in order to focus on discrimination in nightlife. This has resulted in an app where citizens can record incidents perceived as discrimination. In addition, the cooperation focuses on assessment and handling in the doors of the nightclubs. This cooperation between citizens and industry and municipality we in the Danish People's Party believe is the right way forward in this case, and we look forward to the results of this, so that you can see if it is something that needs to be spread to much more municipalities. We do not believe that political intervention will be the way forward here, which is why I can inform you that the Danish People's Party does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516165445	There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516165449	Given that the legislation is obviously fine enough, can the DF's rapporteur give me a single example of some having been deprived of their funding on the basis of discrimination or discrimination?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516165505	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516165506	No, I cannot give an example of this, and that is also why we are ready to look at in committee whether the law is now being properly applied.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516165519	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516165520	That is because there are no examples. In fact, no one has received their funding on the basis of discrimination. And the Court of Auditors in Copenhagen has actually stated that a ruling on discrimination in itself is not enough to refuse or withdraw a grant. What does the rapporteur think of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516165539	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516165540	Well, I'm pretty sure that when you have a conviction, you can get your liquor license taken as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516165553	Thank you to Mrs Tilde Bork. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jakob Engel-Schmidt or any other rapporteur on the Left. That's not possible. Then we move on to Mr. Rune Lund from Enhedslisten. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516165623	In the Enhedslist, we agree that discrimination must be eliminated in the nightlife, and we also agree that much more should have been done and that much, much more should be done to combat the discrimination that we see. For years we have heard and seen how young people with other ethnic backgrounds have been rejected at the entrances to discotheques, and we have also been able to see that the problems continue to exist they do not go away. And it is very clear that we must therefore do something. That is why we in the Enhedslisten fully agree that the Restaurant Act should be amended so that the rulings of the Equal Opportunities Board can have an impact on the continued grant, as the SF writes in the proposal here. We also agree that employers should be held responsible for the actions of employees when there are rejections at the door. We believe that both measures can have, for example. discotheque owners to think carefully before instructing doormen in or signalling that one can discriminate or implicitly accept racial discrimination. So we are certainly positive about the proposal, just as we have been when this proposal has been discussed in the past, and if anyone is in doubt, I can say that Enhedslisten can support this proposal. And I should say hello from the alternative and say that the alternative can be.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516165754	Thank you, sir. Rune Lund. It did not give rise to any brief comments, so we shall move on to Mrs May-Britt Kattrup from the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516165803	Thank you. The proposers want to ensure that there is no discrimination in nightlife on grounds of ethnic origin. I think this is a very positive intention, as it is important that there is no discrimination on grounds of race in Denmark. However, I believe that we have sufficient legislation in this area and that there is no need for any further. The Liberal Alliance therefore does not support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516165829	Thank you to Mrs May-Britt Kattrup. We move on to the next rapporteur. It's sir. Andreas Steenberg. In the meantime, sir. Andreas Steenberg is not present, we now have the chance to resume the opportunity for the Left. That's sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt, who is now present. Here you go. Welcome to the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516165855	I thank the President-in-Office for his flexibility. We need to talk about the SF's proposal to introduce stricter circumstances in order to ensure anti-discrimination in nightlife. This is an important issue. I also understand that this is a recycling proposal. It is, of course, an important idea, and indeed good for the use of resources, that the SF finds the opportunity to retable a motion for a resolution over and over again. I should like to start by saying that we in the Left are puzzled by the fact that there has been no reason to make our views known when we revised the catering legislation. Perhaps that would have saved us all a debate. But the debate itself is also good to have. However, I must say that under no circumstances can the Left support the motion for a resolution. On the whole, we believe that the proposal is wrong because the instruments that you want to put into play will be useless and we believe that it will be administratively difficult and, at the same time, impossible to implement. There is no doubt that there are people, often of another ethnic origin, who are mistreated and discriminated against in our nightlife. It is wrong, it is unacceptable, and we need to focus on that. I know, among other things, that HORESTA and some of the other organisations have a great deal of focus on this. If I have to say anything about a radical colleague I rarely think of it, but let me do it anyway from the platform I can reveal that my municipal colleague in Copenhagen, Anna Mee Allerslev, has put the focus on it in a way that has so far been taken the lead and has launched an information campaign. And I know that this is the kind of thing that also appeals to the Socialist People's Party. So all in all, it is an exciting motion for a resolution. It's been recycled, and that's great. We cannot support the tools as we find them cumbersome, useless and opaque, but we appreciate the fact that the SF is taking the debate. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516170050	There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516170054	It may be that the rapporteur's somewhat delayed entry into the Parliamentary Chamber has done so that a little was just shot from his hip, because I think there are some things that are simply wrong in what the rapporteur says. We have put forward this point of view wherever we are and where we are negotiating. Nor is it opaque or opaque or unpredictable. This ensures that a judgment in the Equal Opportunities Board actually has consequences that it does not have today. In Copenhagen, it is said directly that a discrimination judgment has no impact on whether or not you can get the grant. I just think it is crazy that we have such a widespread problem that a quarter of all new dancers experience discrimination. This is not good for integration. I also thought that in a liberal party people simply do not want to make a difference between people. Finally, I would also like to say that HORESTA has also had hold of me so I fully understand what the industry thinks about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516170210	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516170212	Well, I'm not so lucky that I'm on HORESTA's call list. I'm just gonna have to find their arguments on Google. The rapporteur should not misunderstand my saying as an expression of neither the lack of preparation nor the lack of inspiration. The rapporteur refers to one study that has been carried out, and I am quite convinced that it cannot be calculated on the basis of a confidence interval which gives reason to say that one in four new Danishsmen in Copenhagen has been discriminated against. This can be said for one study, but one cannot generalise from the population. And yes, it's useless for the bars, because it will give everyone who is rejected at the door a compensation of 5,000 kroner. One can imagine an entire industry where one can walk around the evening and be rejected at various bars to finance such a monthly existence. So, I do not see that it is simply possible to implement it here in a practical and useful way, and that is why I am responding to the rapporteur as I do.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516170259	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516170302	I mean, it's not like because you're rejecting someone at the door, there's a discrimination sentence falling on your head. I think that's pretty nonchalant. There's quite a lot to do to get a verdict like that. We can only see that there are restaurateurs who say over and over again that, well, it was just a doorman or something, and that it is simply not systematic. Does the rapporteur have such an impression that the Institute for Human Rights says that this is a fundamental problem and that more use should be made of the funds as a tool?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516170338	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516170341	I am impressed by many things. The Institute for Human Rights is usually not an organisation that can seriously knock my feet off, but we can take that discussion on a completely different day. This makes an impression. I believe that the SF has an important point in making the proposal. I think there is something to talk about. I also believe that the equal treatment legislation we have today is quite well equipped to deal with, sanction and take action against people who break the rules. In other words, with the help of the Danish Parliament, it has succeeded in ensuring that the Equal Treatment Board now deals with a number of matters which are actually within a range that is relevant and not, as in the past, where it simply deals with all the small things in the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516170422	Thank you, sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt. Jakob Engel-Schmidt I thank you for your flexibility). You're welcome. We also managed to get Mr. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left, on the platform. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516170436	I'm here to replace Mr. Knox. Kristian Hegaard, who will be rapporteur on this matter. I shall read out the Radical Left's position on the motion for a resolution. Discrimination does not belong in a democratic society, either in the nightlife or in the workplace or anywhere, either when it comes to skin colour or gender, either in Denmark or elsewhere. Discrimination can never be acceptable and it must be up to society to create the conditions for it not to take place. Just as we have distanced ourselves and acted in relation to the time when there were different buses in relation to skin colour, a similar discrimination must not, of course, take place when it comes to access in the nightlife. Imagine being in a good mood on Friday night. You are in good company with the friends group, which is why you go out into the nightlife. But everyone but one has to come in. Suddenly you are left alone or you have to go somewhere else than where the group of friends goes. That must be the worst feeling at all. It must never happen that there are unimportant considerations which are deeply discriminatory. Of course, sometimes guests can be rejected at the door because of drugs or violent behavior. However, pure discrimination must not only be rejected but also acted upon. It's been going on for a long time. It is therefore gratifying that in the City of Copenhagen, together with the industry, a charter has been drawn up to deal precisely with discrimination in nightlife. This is necessary when one in four new Danishsmen experiences being rejected in the door in the Danish nightlife. Ankestyrelsen's Citizenship Survey of 2015. We take note of the fact that this tightening of sanctions is not just empty-founded rhetoric, as we see in other contexts, when it is the tool that is being used. There are legal experts, among others. in the Institute for Human Rights, which supports tightening the screw. Perhaps there are already opportunities today to withdraw the alcohol allowance, but why is there not a single decision on this when we are constantly seeing discrimination cases in the nightlife? This must mean that the legislation is not sufficient in its present form. That is why more needs to be done. We look forward to discussing it further and intend to vote in favour of this resolution, because discrimination does not belong in a democratic society.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516170710	Thank you, sir. Andreas Steenberg. Now there should be room for a conservative rapporteur, but there does not seem to be any. So we move on to the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516170731	I would like to thank all the comments, including those who do not agree with the need for this motion for a resolution or for an extra effort, but that there is the legislation in this area that needs to be done. I would particularly like to thank the Social Democrats and the Enhedslisten and the Radical Left and the Alternative for supporting this. Unfortunately, this is not enough for a majority, so this will become a reality, but I may have heard that I do not over-interpret some of the parties that will not support the resolution, say that if there is a problem, let us discuss it in committee and continue working on it along that path. And I'd like to say yes to that. Because even if we do not think that there is a problem that should be dealt with by legislation, which is what we are proposing, and in which we say that the consequence should therefore also be felt if we discriminate in this way, then perhaps there are some other things we can do and in which the Minister might also be interested, in relation to going further along the road where legislation is already in place today. In any case, I would like to ask the Minister a few questions about this through the committee. One of the problems we see with the current legislation is that the appropriation board cannot place emphasis on the decisions of the Equal Opportunities Board when examining applications for alcoholic beverages. That was also the question I put to the DF's rapporteur when she stood up here, that is, that there are precisely no cases where a grant has been refused on the basis of a discrimination judgment. And that is the link we would like to see, that is, that the consequences are hard on discrimination, but also that these things are linked together, because we know that if there is something that works in the catering industry, it is getting its funding. And we see that that is precisely what is not happening here, and that is why we want that coupling. Finally, I would just like to say that when we think this is serious and we keep making our proposal, it is also because the Ankestyrelsen's own figures show that almost one in four new Danish people experiences discrimination in nightlife and that being discriminated against on the basis of their skin color is one of the most damaging to integration and to the feeling of belonging. We see it over and over again, and we see that it is something that happens in the nightlife of many cities. And it's not just some decisions of some random doormen, it's a firm policy. But it will never have consequences for the restaurants. We will keep trying to focus on this area, because when there are negative examples from the integration debate, there are plenty of parties ready to discuss it for a very long time and very extensive, and there must also be room for that. But we must also recognise that some of what can make people feel the most alienated to a society and feel that there is no room for them, that is to say, to be discriminated against on the basis of skin colour or ethnicity. And we can't be familiar with that. This is an area that needs to be looked at so much so that we can change the practice and culture there is. I hope that the Minister will be willing to do so, even if he or the government does not support our resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516171148	Then we thank Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen as rapporteur for the proposers. There are no brief comments. No one else has asked to speak either, and that is why the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516171212	The negotiations have been opened and the first to speak is the Minister of Justice. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516171238	Thank you. The motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party requires the government to take the necessary initiatives to strengthen the enforcement of intellectual property rights, IP rights, on the Internet. It follows from the proposal that action against infringements of intellectual property rights, inter alia: in the form of illegal file sharing, should be sharpened. In addition, the possibility of creating a special task force specialising in combating infringements of intellectual property rights on the Internet needs to be explored. First of all, let me state that the government fully agrees with the intentions behind the resolution. We in Denmark must have a strong focus on dealing with cases of infringement of intellectual property rights on the Internet, and we must keep track of developments and take the necessary initiatives in this area. This is also the reason why the Attorney General, together with SØIK and the National Police, will carry out an evaluation of initiatives already taken to strengthen the enforcement of intellectual property rights in 2017. We in the government have been concerned about how the comments on the proposal should be understood precisely. Overall, it is therefore some of the comments on the proposal that appear to require changes to concepts such as jurisdiction and liability subject, which are fundamental elements of the Danish criminal justice system. These parts of the penal system do not believe that we should change. We have therefore had a very good dialogue with the proposers of the Danish People's Party, also with the Social Democrats, on the motion for a resolution and on what we really want to do in this area. I am very pleased that the government, together with the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party, has agreed on a joint statement which clarifies what the resolution actually means. The joint opinion will be part of the further work of the committee on the resolution, but I would just like to take this opportunity to read from the start of the discussion what we are agreed on. It is • and I quote: a majority (government, DF and S) is recommending the adoption of the resolution, with the majority emphasising that the basic principles of Danish criminal law require, among other things, that: Danish jurisdiction and responsibility subject, which can be prosecuted by the Danish authorities, is maintained. The following elements shall be included in the evaluation of the area in 2017: experience from other countries, including Great Britain and Sweden, SØIK's experience regarding international cooperation, as well as experience regarding legal barriers to tackling digital crime, how violations on foreign websites are handled today, rights holders' experience in enforcement. The right-holders should also be asked to contribute to the qualification of the extent of the problem of criminality, including possible links with other forms of crime. The studies shall result in a concrete recommendation as to whether a task force will contribute to the strengthening of enforcement of ipr. That recommendation shall be made in the first half of 2018. The evaluation shall indicate when the area is to be re-evaluated and the possibility of blocking websites based on financial crime shall be set out in the evaluation. Quote out. As I said at the outset, it is important that effective enforcement is carried out in the event of IPR violations. We in Denmark must have a strong focus on dealing with cases of infringement of intellectual property rights online, and we must continuously monitor developments and take the necessary initiatives in this area. I am very pleased that the proposers and the Social Democrats have helped to find a good solution in relation to the concrete form of the resolution, which responds both to the need for effective enforcement in the event of infringements and, at the same time, respects the fundamental principles of Danish criminal law. With the comments that follow from the joint opinion, I can say that the government can support the resolution and I look forward to the further consideration of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516171652	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516171657	I just want to use this opportunity to thank the government and the Justice Minister for being so accommodating. We also agree, of course, with the comments which have been made in cooperation with the Social Democratic Party. We look forward to it. Should you have any doubts as to whether this is necessary at all, I would just like to draw attention to the last case where a Disney movie has been hacked by a group which is now demanding ransom for them not to publish it on a private page before the premiere. They get hotter and hotter. The sooner we can get started on this, and the stronger tools we can get to handle this, the better. So I look forward to the work of the committee. I can't wait to get this started. So thank the Minister for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516171748	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516171750	Thank you very much. I think that the example given by the author of the question shows quite clearly that there is a great deal to be done in this area. I look forward to finding a solution here and finding some good ways to come after these kinds of crime. What's going on is violent. I'll give that to the questioner a hundred percent.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516171811	Thank you to the Minister and welcome to Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516171820	Thank you to the authors of the motion for a resolution for raising a very important debate. If you were not already aware that this is a problem, at least it was fully established at the recent hearing. The fight against violations of rights on the Internet is a very important issue and, above all, because technology has developed rapidly in recent years and legislation has not necessarily followed suit. This is not only true when we talk about identity theft, data fraud and revenge porn. This also applies when we talk about violations of intellectual property rights on the Internet, and thus about the protection of art, images, literature and design. Back in 2013, we discussed a similar motion for a resolution. At that time, a number of concrete initiatives had been taken to strengthen efforts in this area by means of a special effort both in SØIK and in the individual police circles. However, as I said before, developments in this area are extremely strong, at a furious pace, and therefore we must always do what we can on the part of the Danish Parliament to keep up with them. The Social Democrats therefore agree with the proposers that our legal system is basically tailored to a world without the Internet, and that therefore there is a need for us to adapt, at an even higher rate, the possibilities of preventing, investigating and, above all, prosecuting the violations taking place in the digital world and, above all, putting an end to the blatant violations that are taking place. That is why we must ensure that the police and prosecutors have the right tools to solve and prosecute these cases. In addition, copyright, including copyright management, is incredibly important for Danish artists and Danish cultural content and production. If they are not protected from violations of their rights, they simply lose their livelihood, and that does not mean that we do not get the art and culture that we want so much and that is so important a part of our society. That is why we believe that we must also ensure that digital rights are protected, because this is precisely the basis of Danish art and culture. The Minister explained so well what an agreement we have made on this matter in order to move one step further. That is why I shall not go into it further. I would just like to say that we look forward to discussing this further during the work of the committee and to supporting the statement that the Minister of Justice read out. In those words, we also support the motion for a resolution here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516172121	Thank you to Mrs Trine Bramsen and welcome to Mrs Britt Baker from the Left, the Liberal Party of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516172128	Thank you. The Minister of Justice and the previous rapporteur have thoroughly examined the content of the motion for a resolution, so I will instead look at the position of the Left on this proposal. It is, of course, a proposal which is echoed by the Left, because, as the authors of the motion correctly write, the motion for a resolution is closely linked to the previous proposal, which the Left, among other things. was the author of the proposal. We're still in line with the intentions of this proposal. This is an area that requires political focus, and we must keep developing intellectual property rights under the carpet, so that we can take the necessary initiatives in this area. It should not be a secret that we in the Left have had our concerns and have discussed how the comments on this proposal should be understood in concrete terms. We had some substantive concerns that were primarily about the elements of Danish criminal law that relate to the concepts of jurisdiction and the subject of responsibility. It is not unproblematic to tamper with such fundamental concepts in Danish law, and it is therefore very, very gratifying that we have found common ground on how to deal with this motion for a resolution. I think that this proposal undoubtedly has very good ideas behind it and, in the light of the joint statement made by the Minister for Justice, the Left supports the proposal. And I must inform you that the Conservatives also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516172313	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we move quickly to Mr. Rune Lund from Enhedslisten
ParlaMint-DK_20170516172336	On the front page of today's edition of Politiken you can read an article in which experts state that Denmark is not prepared for a large IT attack at all. The reason is, of course, the current cyberattack on computers all over the world, and as such it has nothing to do with the violation of intellectual property rights and so on. For both the lack of preparation in relation to a cyber attack and the major problems with the enforcement of intellectual property rights are somehow linked to the fact that as a society we are lagging behind in relation to the IT reality that surrounds us. Quite unnaturally, it is not that we are lagging a little behind, but the problem is that we are lagging far, far behind and that many feel that distance is increasing. And that is also why this proposal to strengthen the enforcement of intellectual property rights. That is why we also have sympathy for the proposal as a starting point. We also said this when a similar proposal was discussed in the 2013-14 parliamentary year. The question then is whether the specific tool, a task force, is the right tool. We would like to take part in discussing this, and we would like to discuss it in committee, and that may be the right tool. We are also convinced that there is a need for a major discussion on how we as a society relate to the IT development that we find ourselves in, where the enforcement of intellectual property rights is one among several important issues to discuss • one among several important challenges. Now a joint statement has been presented by the government and the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party, and it is almost a kind of report that has been read out from the parliamentary platform, but it could also be an opportunity that we in the committee could make a report that more generally calls on the government to come up with a proposal which sees the various problems in a slightly wider context and also outlines some options for solutions in this context. In relation to the joint statement, I would say that the Minister for Justice read it out very quickly, but it will, of course, be part of the committee's proceedings. We will certainly read what it is about and see how we deal with it. We will then, of course, do this together with other parties in committee, and then we will determine our final position on that basis. I could understand that it was something to look at experiences from other countries, look at the experiences of SØIK, i.e. the backstabbing police, at home, and how such violations are handled in other countries, and how we are already doing it in Denmark, and then the study should look at whether a task force is something that could possibly be used. That's what I got out of hearing it read out. We have to look at the paper when it lands in committee, and then we have to take it further in committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516172650	Thank you, sir. Rune Lund, and welcome to Mrs Christina Egelund of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516172657	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance fully shares the intentions behind the motion for a resolution, namely to strengthen the handling of cases of infringement of intellectual property rights on the Internet. After all, it is becoming more and more topical every day. So we are in total agreement with the intention. And with the clarifications mentioned by the Minister for Justice in his opening speech, the Liberal Alliance can support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516172729	Thank you to Mrs Christina Egelund. The next rapporteur is René Gade from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516172737	Today's good news is moving fast, too. At our group meeting in the Alternative today, which we are livestreaming, we were equally critical of the proposal, although we are actually in favour of the intention, which we think is good. We were dwelling on whether it was just online activities and IP rights online, or whether it was some IP rights that were taken from the more earthly or physical, and whether you were trying to implement legislation that might not fit what it was supposed to do online. That's why I was actually going to make a little more skeptical talk about it. And then I find myself in a situation where I would also like to lean on the work that is being done in our European community, and there is a great deal of focus in this area now. Several of our other rapporteurs in the alternative have told me that there have also been consultations in various areas, and they indicate that the work that is going on in the European Community is indeed something we would like to take up and also go and wait for in the alternative rather than in the drafting of national legislation in this area. But the currents that are coming today, including those of the Minister, make me want to go back and then I would say: could we land it on something sensible here? That would be gratifying because, as I said, the intention is really, really good, and it is a whole new world that we see online in terms of IP rights. So if it doesn't compromise our values in the Alternative, I'm much more positive than I was before I went into the Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516172907	Thank you, sir. René Gade. There is a brief comment from Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516172912	I am a little surprised that the alternative is sceptical, because the party is known to be the artist's party. And if there are some who suffer because of lack of protection on the Internet and lack of tools to deal with such things, then it is artists. It's not just artists in Denmark, it's artists in general. They're filmmakers, they're designers, they're artisans, they're writers, they're musicians. It is all sorts of people who live in this modern world and who are exploited because others abuse their products. So I have not quite understood how an artist party such as the alternative can be sceptical about a resolution that will help artists so that they are not exploited on the Internet by criminals.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516173010	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516173012	I think that is also a good surprise, and that is also what I have been trying to say up here from the platform. I said earlier, on behalf of the Alternative, that as long as innovation is not affected, we would also like to support the strength of precisely the IP rights. But we just often see that it's actually going to buckle. So even if the resolution says that it is to benefit innovation and ensure that people actually dare to invest in developing new products and new arts, then sometimes it can also tighten their feet. That is what we need to find out: what is this proposal doing? There, in the alternative, we can support the intention, but it is not certain that the proposal as it stands will help in the long term. Sometimes, unfortunately, these ip rights retain some old structures that are not good for innovation. But maybe this is the right thing to do, and then we'll back it up.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516173108	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen for a second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516173112	If there is anything that prevents creativity, it is the criminals because they abuse the works of others. Unfortunately, as far as I remember, sir. René Gade did not participate in the hearing held by the Committee on Culture and the Committee on Legal Affairs on the violation of IP rights. And it is a pity that the rapporteur was not here, because there was the very clear announcement that something needs to be done now. We don't have the tools. So will the rapporteur not just once think about things and then perhaps go into the work with some heart and endorse the resolution? It would be nice if we could have broad support in the Folketing for this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516173200	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516173202	With the blood pumping I stand wholeheartedly up here and would like to go into work. And we'll see if we can't go in and say yes with the new information that's come in. But I think I'm going to use an example, at the risk of misrecording the wording, but I think I remember it correctly: sir. Bertel Haarder said one day that if there was anything that could make him a socialist, it was IP rights capitalists. I feel a bit the same way there: just as well it may be to protect IP rights, just as bad it may be if you get to do it to a degree, so you capitalise something that could actually be made much more interesting for society and get some others to create new products. But I am not sure that is the case here. In fact, I think it is a very sensible proposal that has been made, especially with the new approaches, so let us hope that we can also say yes to what I said in my rapporteur's speech. However, it is not always good for stakeholders who were also present at the hearing to tell us why we need to protect exactly their products and perhaps prevent others from being on the market.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516173252	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked for brief comments. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516173300	I'm here to replace Mr. Knox. Kristian Hegaard, who will be Radical Left rapporteur on this matter during the committee procedure. That is why I have to read out our position and make a single addition to the statement made by the Minister for Justice in his speech. Intellectual property is extremely important for Denmark; it is one of the things we have created export adventures and growth on. It creates plenty of private jobs and with adequate protection for intellectual creations, trademarks, patents, copyright works, etc. We are creating an incentive for further development. We know this when we sell, for example, Danish design or medicine abroad. In this context, it can only be regretted that at the moment a lot of resources are being spent on less important tasks such as looking at passports at the Danish-German border rather than solving some of the crimes that are happening here. There is the challenge of money that it can only be used once. But at the moment there are some who believe that there are other things more important than catching real criminals and that it is more important to look at Mr. and Mrs Hansen's red-bellied passport than it is to solve, for example. Intellectual property offences. That is why it is a free round when the Danish People's Party makes a proposal here without giving any kind of funding. However, there is no doubt that this is a very important area. While someone is pulling his passport out of his pocket at that border, Denmark is constantly being hit by various cyber attacks, and that is something that also goes beyond the ideas and development of specific private companies; something that unauthorized people are trying to access; something that violates different rights. Therefore, this effort must also be seen in the light of the current need to strengthen our digital security and, among other things, to strengthen our digital security. in relation to Russian hacker groups that we heard about last Friday over a period of time have systematically hacked a large number of countries, including British hospitals. This isn't something we're done discussing. Law and order must be maintained, including in this area. In the first place, we think it is important to give proper priority to resources within the framework of the police, and that is why we would also like to ask the Minister for Justice whether the statement presented by the Minister for Justice makes sure that we stay within the financial framework, because we think that the police have the economy they should have, but that it could only be used in this area rather than in this area of border control.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516173546	There is a wish from Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen on a brief note.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516173550	I have a few questions. Does the rapporteur really think that border guards should suddenly be retrained to combat something as complicated as cybercrime? That is one question. The second question is: does the rapporteur not know that the police already have people employed to fight this kind of thing today? The problem is simply that they are sitting in the individual police circles, and that, among other things, the motion for a resolution. The idea is to bring together the people who already exist in a unit, just as we have done in, among other things. Sweden and England with good results.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516173632	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516173634	We do not imagine that the people who stand and control the border can suddenly take on difficult investigative tasks so that you can catch the backers, but the money you spend on it could move over to hire some people who can. I understand, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen's speech is such that it is not really an extra cost that the proposal entails, because it is then centralised in Copenhagen by the individual circles. Now we are always a little careful in terms of centralisation, but we would like to look at it in committee because, as we read the proposal, it will entail an increase in costs, and we are not interested in that, as I said in the rapporteur's speech, but we would very much like to look at it in the light of what Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen puts it in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516173726	Sir. Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516173729	Well, it's gratifying that the Radical Left doesn't want to retrain border guards to fight cybercrime. So I just have to ask whether it has not been a populist remark from the platform, which actually has nothing to do with the motion for a resolution, and whether it is not too bad that we have not got into the whole of the motion for a resolution when we give such a speech what should I say?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516173758	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516173759	No, well, we think it's quite real. You spend a lot of money controlling people on the Danish-German border while things pile up in the individual police circles because you have moved the resources down there to control a lot of people who have no evil in mind when they just go across a border, and it shifts all other equal money from sensible police work to something we think is unreasonable. So I think that is a very real comment. If the Danish People's Party's proposal does not entail any increase in expenditure and we have misunderstood it, then it is an honest matter, we must be able to recognise that, and we must then discuss it in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516173841	No one else has asked for brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and move on to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen as rapporteur for the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516173853	Fortunately, it can be seen that crime in Denmark is falling overall. You wouldn't always believe that from some of our debates, but it is. And that's really good. There are many explanations for this, but it is an objective fact that crime is decreasing, apart from cybercrime and financial crime. Both are very much of a concern to the SF, which is why we are also very sympathetic to this motion for a resolution. We are in favour of intellectual property rights, and that is why, of course, we are also in favour of their enforcement, and I also believe that the horror stories of recent days from around the world show how much the challenge can be. Of course, that is not exactly what the proposal is about, but there are infinite opportunities to abuse the new brave digital world with very great consequences. Now, of course, this is about intellectual property rights, but we are faced with a problem that is just beginning to dawn on us, and it extends from someone can hack into vital and basic infrastructure, over ransomware and for blackmail and the kind of crime that DF's proposal here deals with. Having said that, we also believe that there should be proportions in it, and that is something I could not quite read from the proposal. For example: We do not believe that a violation of intellectual property rights can justify, for example: monitoring without a court order, or that you should be able to inform the user of a given IP address. I would like to have the opportunity to ask a little more questions about that. So I actually just want to say that I think DF points out a completely relevant problem and there must also be enforcement. Of course. The comments describe many of the problems in this area and also refer to a great many different things. I would like to say, however, that I think we go a little too far when we write that the police and the judiciary are, to a greater or lesser extent, not working on the Internet. After all, some years ago we had a major discussion about the Cybersecurity Centre and what they should have of tools and so on. And when we have meetings over at the Ministry of Justice with the police and SØIK and PET etc., I think you can also see that there's a focus on this area. However, general digital development and crime in this area are rapidly evolving and new loopholes are being found. So we are not at all opposed to looking at the enforcement part, i.e. the consequences too, I would say that although I usually think that funding should follow with a proposal, I also think that one is in good right to make proposals which one considers to be very important to society. And if everyone then agrees that this is really, really important, then you will probably find the money one way or another. It is just to make an input in relation to the debate that was before. However, I would also like to say that we only have the police resources we have right now. Various steps have been taken to get out of the situation we are in, where we lack police officers, also in terms of training more and so on, and we are currently faced with an extremely overwork hump, poor working conditions in the police with stress and people who find other work and quit etc. We have to take that into account in this too. It can be said that, as in other areas, it is not the same type of policeman who has to do these tasks. I mean, in the field of financial crime, you have to be a specialist on that. It may be that you have to have a bank education or an economic education in the back or at least experience. And, of course, we need people who are as good in this area as those who abuse their ability to commit crime online. The proposal itself is, of course, short and cash, but I think that, in particular, in the comments on the proposal, there is a good deal to be done about the problem. And as I said before, and I will also pursue it in committee, our only concern is whether we are going to go too far in relation to some of the enforcement that could lead to monitoring through the editing of, for example. IP addresses. So that's our only concern. It may be that we can reach each other so that we are on the basis of a positive approach to this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516174444	No one has asked for short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur. There has been a message from the Conservative People's Party, so there is no rapporteur from there. Then we move on to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr Beyer de Ryke. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516174500	Thank you, President. Thank you for the debate. First of all, a great deal of thanks to the government and the Minister for Justice for being so sympathetic to the proposal and also a special thanks to the Socialists for their contributions and assistance throughout this process. It has been very useful to clarify some things. There are, of course, some legal principles on which the Ministry of Justice is on guard, and I'm sure we can sign that out. I am sure we can find a way to strengthen enforcement on the one hand and, on the other, not undermine what Denmark is building on. The Ministry of Justice is a conservative force in Denmark, and the Ministry of Justice does not like experiments very much, but I hope you will be creative and positive, because it is urgent. When, for the first time, four years ago, together with the Left, we had this resolution in the Chamber, there was a great deal of opposition. They said you wouldn't vote in favour because the Attorney General had to show that he could handle this, too. We knew that this would not happen because they simply do not have the means to do so. After four years, however, it turns out that the Attorney General has not solved this; it was the hearing organized by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport, which was very clear proof, as Mrs Trine Bramsen has also pointed out. The hearing was very clear. We have to do something now, and the crucial thing we do and have to do is, of course, to gather our strength. To those of the rapporteurs who have some doubts about the funding, I would just like to say that this must be done within the existing resources, and we can do so because resources and staff have already been allocated to it. The Minister of Justice is nodding. The main problem is that they are in the individual police circles, so the task in the long term is to gather these resources, these people in a unit somewhere in Denmark, so that they can cooperate and so that they can join forces, because that is what this is all about. Then it's also about the political and ministerial focus on this area. Why is this so important? I was rather saddened to hear both the Radical Left and, in particular, the alternative's attitude to it, because copyright is the starting point for modern society. It is copyright that ensures that creative people can also make money from what they are doing, and here we are not only talking about writers and musicians; we are also talking about craftsmen and designers; so people who have an idea and who have spent time and money on getting a product placed. They are exposed to a huge threat from these criminals, and it is the criminals on the Internet who are preventing innovation from flourishing. If we question copyright, we question the whole foundation of modern Western society, because it is copyright that is the basis of that kind of thing, and we must not question that at all. That is why, of course, we also have to go hard to those people who deliberately break copyright, and that is what they are doing. There we in Denmark have not been good enough to establish the tools needed to deal with criminals. They have simply been free to play. This is something we have been discussing for a long time, and I have held a series of meetings with the Right Alliance, which is a small association with staunch and very idealistic people who spend all their waking hours protecting people's copyright so that it is not violated. I would actually just like to encourage the alternative to something if you have not already had a meeting: take a meeting with the Rightness Alliance and let them tell you how extensive this is, how great a threat it poses to copyright and thus also to the artists' earnings opportunities. It really surprises me that the alternative, which is an artist's party and which speaks as an artist's party, does not see what a threat it is. I understand the fear that innovation will be prevented. But what really prevents innovation is the criminals who abuse other people's copyright. That is what is crucial, and that is why we need proper tools to deal with this kind of thing, and there is an attempt on the part of this resolution to address it here. We regard it in the Danish People's Party as actually the first step. I hope, of course, that we can get the process that is needed in the committee, together with the Ministry of Justice and the Minister of Justice and the Government, so that, along the way, we can perhaps move on to step two and create the tools needed to prevent or at least minimise the crimes. We can never completely remove them, but we can minimize them and thus also protect the copyrights of Danish artists. That is what matters. That is why I am so pleased that the Minister of Justice has shown his goodwill today. I know that this is also something the Minister of Justice is passionate about, and that is why we are looking forward to the continued work. And, of course, I thank you for today's debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516175129	There are a number of brief comments. The first is from Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516175135	Thank you. If the rapporteur for the proposal is now up there, I would like to ask the question which I also addressed in my speech and which I would also like to pursue a little in committee. Because, as I said, we also consider this to be a major problem. When I spoke of proportionality, it was precisely with this in mind how the proposal should be read. Because we are worried if you go in and say that there must be surveillance without a warrant, or that you can get information on IP addresses via edition, etc. So I'm just quite frankly curious about how the enforcement part of it should be understood.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516175215	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516175217	It is, after all, a very open resolution that we have written. We write, among other things, that we need to examine the possibilities of creating such a working group, that is to say a task force, so that we can unite the forces that already exist within the police. In the same way, it applies to the special tools we shall then have put in place. We're pointing to some things you could do. It is not certain that these are the right things. After all, we hope that the work of the committee and the cooperation with the Ministry of Justice will lead us to agree that this is what needs to be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516175251	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen? No. Then we move on to Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516175257	It is clear that I have been in favour of taking the floor after such a stubborn speech by the author of the motion for a resolution. For what I heard our rapporteur say and what I know is our position on this is, of course, that copyright is really important to stand around and fight for. That is also why, together with the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport, I am working very hard on these directives, which will ensure this at EU level. So I do not quite understand the strawman that the rapporteur needed to run. If the rapporteur had listened to what the alternative said, it was precisely that we should do something in this area, but we are very uncertain whether it is the tools of this proposal that are right. So I would just like the rapporteur to hear the message again, just like the rapporteur, that we are dealing with the rapporteur's specific proposals. Are these the tools needed to safeguard copyright, or will there be a little confusion between copyrights for intangible works, for example, or for physical works? These are different measures that need to be taken and not the somewhat simplistic ones contained in the proposals put forward by the proposers.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516175407	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516175409	It's a little weird to have to answer Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist's speech when it was Mr. René Gade, who spoke on behalf of the alternative about the party's position on the proposal. I'm sorry. I'm sorry, sir. René Gade's position on copyright, where he feels I questioned copyright whether it was absolute or not. If sir... Rasmus Nordqvist can now stress that it is absolutely, of course, we agree. So that's just not what Mr. René Gade's speech, and that is why it is such a pity to be shot in the shoes that you have a strawman's post. It was sir. René Gade's speech, to which I responded and not so much what Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist has said in the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516175505	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516175509	Perhaps I can now surprise the rapporteur by saying that both Mr Beazley and Mr von der Vring are in favour of this report. René Gade and I represent the alternative and hence the alternative's positions in this area. I heard Mr. René Gade's rapporteur's speech, and it was just said that we need to look at the tools that are needed in the world we are living today. I am now trying to translate it for the rapporteur since the rapporteur could not understand what was said and we need to look at what tools are needed in relation to the developments that are technological and so on. in relation to copyright. That is why I also allow myself to bring up the work of the European Committee and the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport on the directive from the European Union, which is also about how we guarantee copyright, and then we have to look at how we can maintain it, and we do not believe that with the proposal from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516175556	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516175558	There is no reason to be condescending and to say that now you have to translate because nothing has been understood. We can send it back and say that the previous rapporteur did not speak very clearly, and we must get better at presenting the alternative's position on this. But the way I understand it, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, you support copyright, but you are not particularly pleased with the way the proposal is formulated. I would like to invite the alternative to a meeting, and then you have the opportunity to contribute yourself, so that we can create the tools needed to prevent cybercrime, thereby strengthening the rights of Danish artists, Danish designers, artisans on the Internet. In the end, that is what this is all about, rather than a rather bizarre debate in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516175652	No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. We thank the rapporteur. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516175707	The debate is open and I shall begin by giving the floor to the Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516175728	Thank you. The motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party aims to maintain an effective reporting system while at the same time protecting the staff of the criminal services against reprisals from the persons being reported. The Government fully agrees with these objectives. Nor is there any doubt that the anonymisation of alerts in connection with access to documents can help protect staff and thus also ensure that staff do not fail to report for fear of reprisals. The reality is, however, that criminal services already have the opportunity today to anonymise reports when needed, among other things. where necessary to prevent crime. This means, in practice, that there is wide access to anonymise concerns reports in the interests of the security of prison officers. However, there will also be situations where there is no risk to disclose the identity of the notifier. In that case, there is no reason to anonymise the report. It is a fundamental principle in Denmark that you as a citizen can obtain information about the cases dealt with by the authorities. This also applies to information on who has been involved in the proceedings. Access to such information may be crucial to the citizen's ability to defend his or her interests. It can, for example, be done. allow misunderstandings or inability to be identified by the case officers, and therefore no anonymisation should be carried out without any reason. Since the Department of Justice already has the opportunity today to anonymise reports when necessary, there is no need to change the rules. In addition, the resolution we have today will not solve the challenges of inadequate anonymisation that can arise in practice. I am thinking here, for example. the situation that has been mentioned in the past. Here a teacher's name was anonymized, but not the title, and since the inmate had only one teacher, it was easy to figure out who the reviewer was. This was a clear mistake and this kind of error will not prevent the resolution. It was a human error. The possibility of anonymising alerts already includes all identifiable information. I do not believe that a general rule on anonymisation will be a guarantee that anonymisation is actually effective. Against this background, the government does not consider that a general rule on the anonymisation of concerns reports is the right way to go. Of course, in relation to a reporting system, it is important that the criminal services staff are safe in reporting. We must therefore ensure that they actually make use of the possibility of anonymisation when needed and, of course, ensure that anonymisation is effective and actually hides the identity of the notifier. In January of this year, the Ministry of Justice sent a letter to the Department of Crime with an indication of the possibilities of anonymisation. The Ministry of Justice is also working on a guide to the exchange of information on radicalisation by public authorities. We would also like to draw attention to the possibility of anonymising reports. I am very concerned to ensure proper working conditions for the prison officers. Of course, they must be able to do their job without being subjected to violence, threats or harassment by the inmates. Since last summer, a number of initiatives have been taken to improve the safety of prison officers more generally. At the same time, the government is concerned that we do not derogate from general guarantees of legal certainty when there is no reason to do so. Although the government fully agrees with the objectives of having an effective reporting system and at the same time protecting the staff of criminal services, we cannot support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516180147	No one has asked for brief comments, so we move on to the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mrs Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516180159	With the proposal here, the Folketing instructs the government to take the necessary initiatives to ensure that the name and title or other identifiable information of the employees of the criminal services institutions is not disclosed in connection with access to reports of radicalisation in the criminal services institutions. I have to say that this is a proposal which we in the Socialist Group can support. It is, in fact, a proposal which was originally part of the demands for anti-radicalisation efforts, but which was rather forgotten in the previous minister's struggle to get into the media before the agreement was nodded by the relevant parties. That is why I would also like to congratulate the DF for putting forward the proposal here. Because it's an important publisher. Of course, prison officers and other staff in the criminal services institutions should be able to report signs of radicalisation without being recognized subsequently. As we were clearly part of our hearing on radicalisation in prisons in the autumn, there are staff members who see that the existing conditions are a problem that causes them to refrain from reporting. We in the Social Democratic Party believe that it is our duty; it is our duty to listen when police officers express such concern. Because in the end, they may not report if they feel insecure about anonymity. The number of reports on radicalisation has increased significantly in recent years, and it is better that 100 reports are too much than 1 too little. That is why it is our duty to ensure the protection of the prison staff, which is so crucial, indeed crucial, in order to prevent the further development of radicalised tendencies and, at worst, to turn them into real terror. With these words, we in the Social Democratic Party are puzzled that the Minister for Justice is not backing this proposal. We believe it is important to send this very clear signal to the prison staff that they can feel safe and we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516180418	No one has asked for brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and move on to Mr Beazley's report. Preben Bang Henriksen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516180426	Thank you. First of all, I am also speaking on behalf of the Conservative rapporteur, Naser Khader. A small party rarely has the opportunity to be present at all meetings here at Christiansborg. The situation of the Danish prison guards is simply not optimal at the moment. Many physical attacks are taking place on prison officers, many verbal attacks, and in general this is a difficult position for prison officers. In addition, we impose many duties on prison staff. Among other things, one of the duties is: reports, so-called reports of concern, on the matters now to be reported there in relation to radicalisation, etc. Let me say straight away that, in general terms, reports must be public as a starting point, even under the applicable administrative law. That is the starting point. Then the citizen can assess his own case, he can assess his own case, he can assess the inability and other objections that can be raised under the administrative law. He can't do that if the alert isn't publicly available. But there are exceptions. There are necessary exceptions, and one of the areas where an exception is necessary is the area we are talking about here. Fortunately, the relationship is that we do not have to do much to look for the exceptions. In fact, they are in Section 9 of the Administrative Act, Section 31 of the Personal Data Act and Section 8 of the Public Service Act. There are plenty of exceptions that can be used in relation to the so-called reports of concern that we are talking about here, all on the grounds of the security of the prison guards. So on this basis I have to say that I fully understand the resolution here and the intentions of the resolution, but we now have the tools to do so, so we cannot vote in favour of the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516180645	No one has asked for brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and move on to Mr Beazley's report. Rune Lund from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516180707	Thank you. This proposal may arise from a specific case referred to by the Prisons Association during a hearing in the Committee on Legal Affairs on 5 October 2016. It was a question of anonymising a teacher's name, but by mistake not the title, and from this it could be deduced who the notifier was, and this was because the inmate had only a teacher. However, the fact that the title was not anonymised was a mistake, and even if there were to be a majority in favour of this resolution in the House today, it would not necessarily lead to the avoidance of errors in the future. It is not often that I can say, on behalf of the Enhedslisten, that we very much agree with the arguments put forward by the Minister for Justice from the Parliament's platform, but I must say that in this case I can do so, and I would like to thank the Minister for Justice for the fact that the Minister for Justice can also take up legal certainty for the inmates sometimes. We have heard very clear statements from the Minister for Justice that it should not be nice to sit in prison, but certain basic principles of legal certainty obviously still apply to prisoners, also according to the Minister for Justice, and we are, of course, pleased that this is the position of the government. Today, anonymisation and, of course, an effective anonymisation can already be carried out to a large extent, for example. a title may also be exempted if it can reveal the identity of the notifier. I understand that there may seem to have been some uncertainty about access to the use of anonymisation in criminal services, and I have also heard that, before today's debate, I understand that in January of this year the Ministry of Justice has clarified the rules with regard to criminal services in order to ensure that in practice there is anonymisation in cases where this is relevant. If this motion for a resolution were to be adopted, it would mean that, in general, all identifiable information should be anonymised when access to concerns reports is granted. As a consequence, it would also be anonymised in cases where there appears to be no risk of providing the information, but it would not necessarily rule out errors such as the one I mentioned earlier in my rapporteur's speech, where the name of the teacher was excluded, but not the title. Finally, with regard to legal certainty, I would like to say that complete anonymisation will limit the inmates' opportunities for example. to resolve any misunderstandings or to defend themselves, for example. in relation to complaints, so Enhedslisten cannot support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516181017	No one has asked for short remarks, so we thank Mr. Rune Lund and proceed to Mrs Christina Egelund of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516181027	Thank you. I think that the Danish People's Party, with this motion for a resolution, is putting the finger on a mechanism that must work: reporting radicalised prisoners in our prisons. The consequences of non-reporting can be fatal, and therefore the effort and competence in this area must be good. It is, of course, the case that the existing rules allow the reporter to be anonymised, where appropriate, and I believe that this should be done to the extent that it is relevant to ensure the safety of individual prison officials. On the other hand, it is therefore a fundamental principle that you, as a citizen who is brought to justice in some way, have access to know what is of information in your case. The idea of this principle is so important that, since we have rules in this area that are reasonable and reasonable, we cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516181123	No one has asked for brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line to Mr Beazley. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516181139	In the alternative, we are also concerned that the prison officials can make reports without fear of their safety. However, it seems that the Danish People's Party has tabled the motion for a resolution here without having absolutely any control over the legislation in force, as it is already the case that the legislation in force allows criminal services to a large extent to anonymise reports of signs of radicalisation in prisoners in the country's prisons. This can be seen from a reply from the Ministry of Justice to the Legal Affairs Committee in January 2017. Here the Ministry writes among other things. The right of Insight under Article 31 of the Personal Data Act may include: limited if a data subject's interest in obtaining information is found to give way to essential considerations of private or public interest, including for reasons of State security or to prevent crime. As the Ministry writes in the same letter, the law in practice ensures that the criminal services will be able to largely refrain from providing information on concerns reports or to anonymise the reports. That is why we consider this motion for a resolution superfluous in the alternative and cannot therefore vote in favour of it. We are aware that there has been this specific incident, which has been mentioned by a number of speakers, but we also hear that it has been a mistake, a very regrettable mistake, in this particular case. What we want with the proposal is this automatic anonymisation of everything, and we do not think that is the right way to go. We believe it is important to be able, of course, to anonymise when necessary, but at the same time it is also an important principle for us that we have an open and transparent legal system that uses anonymisation only when it is considered absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516181341	No one has asked for brief comments, so we thank Rasmus Nordqvist and move on to the radical rapporteur, Mr. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516181350	Once again, I shall announce that Mr. Kristian Hegaard is the radical rapporteur when it comes to committee and I am here to replace him and to read out our position on the motion for a resolution. Nowadays, you can apply for access to your own case in the public sector in the event of an alert, so that the name and title of the report are disclosed. This motion for a resolution calls for reports on the radicalisation of people anonymised for the sake of employees. This is an element of legal certainty and exists everywhere in the public sector, for example when it comes to reports on public placement cases. That is why it is not as simple as the proposers make it. It is part of the public sector that there is the openness that exists. This creates legal certainty and transparency for anyone who had to defend a person. In addition, there may also be protection concerns for a criminal service employee, so that that person is not unduly suspicious. If access cannot be sought in the same way as in the other public administration, i.e. if it is to be anonymous, individual employees may be unduly suspected of having given the report in question because it is anonymous. And inappropriate situations may arise as a result of this secrecy. In special cases, as both the Minister of Justice and Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen mentioned that, after a specific assessment, one can exempt this public. It may be in placement cases where, for example, the informant is closely related to the person being informed. It will be possible to argue that it would be a good idea to exercise restraint with openness, because it is simply necessary in the specific case. There is no evidence to suggest that there appears to be a particular restriction on reporting on grounds of transparency and legal certainty in this or in the rest of the public administration. In their evaluation of radicalisation prevention, the Directorate for Criminal Services does not state that this should be a problem either. Against this background, the Radical Left cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516181615	No one has asked for brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516181631	Thank you. I really think the Minister for Justice went through the matter so well and just pointed out that the case that was probably based on this motion for a resolution is a matter we heard about for approx. One and a half years ago, when there had been an error where there should have been anonymised, also effectively anonymised, so neither the title, that is, what you have of function, nor of course the name should appear. We also believe that it is a fundamental principle that you can, as a starting point, have access to files relating to you, but that, of course, there must also be the possibility of anonymisation in specific cases. We believe that this is the case today, and it is also widely used. There is the possibility of effective anonymisation, so that we do not, for example, have to do so. can leave out a name, but still keep a title. That's what this individual case was all about. It was a mistake, and I think they themselves very much regret it. However, we should not change the legislation when the legislation is not followed, so when there is an error. So from the SF we cannot support this proposal. We believe, as a starting point, that every citizen, including inmates, has the right of access to his or her own files, but that, of course, there must also be the possibility of anonymisation on the basis of a concrete assessment. So we do not support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516181809	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no more in the rapporteur's line, so we shall move on to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, Mr President. Peter Kofod Poulsen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516181820	Thank you. Thank you to the Minister and thank the rapporteurs for their comments. In particular, I would like to thank the Socialist rapporteur, who has chosen to support our proposal. We appreciate that. Every day, our prison officers and other criminal services staff do a very large and important job in our prisons and detention houses, and at the same time they are under tremendous pressure at the moment. One of the many tasks our employees have is to report behavior that may suggest that an inmate is being radicalised. These reports are of great importance, because it is important for the authorities who must keep us all sure that of course information is provided about people who are on a totally wrong track. But reporting is not free of charge. Some inmates will probably be angry that they are being reported, and if you as a person can identify who has reported you, yes, then it can pose a danger to the very person who has reported. This can have clear consequences, for example. the clear consequences that our employees may stop making these reports. I'm gonna be so sorry if that happens. Because it can have consequences for all of us if people who are radicalised are not spotted in time by the authorities responsible. I think we have a common obligation to ensure that it becomes more difficult and impossible to find the very person who has reported. With the motion for a resolution here, the Danish People's Party proposes that, as an inmate, one should be able to know only which institution one is reported by, but not so much as a single straw to hold on to if one wants to find the person who has reported. The proposal intends to take better care of our employees, but also to send a very clear signal to our employees that we are grateful that they want to report cases of radicalisation in the institutions of criminal justice. However, it is also important for me to emphasise that, in general terms, there is a need for a boost to criminal justice. I am not going to stand here and say to anyone that this proposal can solve all the problems facing us in criminal justice. That is why I really want to spend the last part of my speaking time just saying that we in the Danish People's Party are delighted that we are about to negotiate a new multi-year agreement in place for the Department of Criminal Welfare. We weren't in the last multi-annual agreement, but it's my hope that we'll be in the next one. What we want to do is clearly the manning of our prisons and detention houses, that is to say, that there must be enough prison officers to carry out a significant boost. We need to ensure that our employees always have help and a colleague close, both because of security, but also because of the possibility of professional sparring. We need to do something drastic about sick leave. So there are some obvious resource issues we need to look at as soon as possible. We look forward to it. Because it goes without saying that we must of course have given this area a significant boost. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516182135	No one has asked for brief comments. So we thank the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. If no one objects to this, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516182212	The debate is open. First I give the floor to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516182218	Thank you. After all, the motion for a resolution calls on the government to introduce youth courts and to lower the age of criminals to 12 years. In addition, it is proposed that the youth courts should be composed of people who have a particular knowledge of young people and their relationship. In addition, the proposers focus on the need for a rapid process of cases before the youth courts. As you know, or as some may know, juvenile delinquency is one of the subjects that is very close to my heart. I am concerned that we are giving young people the best opportunities for a good start to life. That is why I am also pleased that in recent years there has been a fall in juvenile delinquency in Denmark. That's a good thing. We're on the right path. This is a development that I think we should welcome together and which it is important to bear in mind when we talk about juvenile delinquency in general. But because there is one, we should not close our eyes to the fact that we have a great challenge with a group of young people who stand out and commit extensive or serious crime. The government agrees with the proposers that there is a need to look critically at whether we are doing well enough today. In the government, we are working hard to present a proposal on the reform and the fight against juvenile delinquency. I am pleased to see that the proposers share the Government's vision in this area. Many of the proposals contained in the motion for a resolution run smoothly with the ideas we have in this area and which are also reflected in our government basis. Basically, we need to have the courage to think in a new way when it comes to dealing with young criminals. We need to get the collar of young people that we do not get picked up in the current system. We must make the parents of the young people responsible so that they, together with the young people and the authorities, help turn the ship around. We need to put an end to the misunderstood goodness I sometimes experience in relation to the very young criminals. Young people, including those down to 12 years of age who are on the wrong track, must be confronted with their actions, and they must feel the consequences quickly. We must ensure that the right action is taken and that we take action as early as possible. This isn't about throwing kids in jail. I am quite sure that the proposers agree with me on this. It is about ensuring that young people are helped to get completely out of crime, including in the long term. As I said, the government will present a youth crime initiative in the near future. We have carried out a very thorough preparatory work in which professionals in the field have had the opportunity to provide input, so we come all the way around. It is important that, in the light of the thorough preparatory work, we consider how best to deal with these difficult cases of criminal youth. That is why it is also crucial for the government that we maintain the focus right now on achieving the great work that has been undertaken. In conclusion, we basically agree with the challenges described in the resolution in relation to juvenile delinquency. There is not necessarily that far between the proposers and the government in this matter. It's about finding the solutions that work. We must create a safer, more secure Denmark. I look forward very much to presenting the government's proposal and having the opportunity to discuss it with the proposers and the other parties in the Folketing. That is why, of course, I must also say that although the government can support many of the intentions behind the proposal, we cannot support this proposal. I think the authors of the motion also understand that, when the government has worked so long and so intensively with a proposal, we would like to present it. Then I am quite sure that we will have a good debate between the parties in this Chamber. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516182627	There are a number of brief comments. The first one's from sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516182633	Thank you. I welcome the last thing the Minister said, namely that there is not a long way to go between the government and the Danish People's Party. Nor should it be, since we agreed on this before the last parliamentary elections, and now we have a majority. I would like to ask the Minister for an article that I have found. It is from 7 October 2015. Here the current Minister of Justice says to Danmarks Radio, and I read from the article: "Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen is amazed that Minister of Justice Søren Pind will not guarantee to lower the criminal low age from 15 to 12 years. The Conservative Party Chairman is convinced that the government is keeping its promises from before the elections to lower the criminal low age. Then the current Minister of Justice says: "There must be a mistake. After all, we have a clear pre-election agreement between the four bourgeois parties that we should have done something about this. So I guess he's holding, too. Will the Minister guarantee to lower the age of criminals to 12 years?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516182732	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516182734	It is always good when you can be confronted with previous statements, as is the case here. I have clearly said at that time, and I have also said in my speech here, that young people down to 12 years of age who are on the wrong track must be confronted with their actions. What we will then exactly propose and how we will negotiate on it will come when the government comes up with the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516182803	Sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516182805	Thank you. Confronted with his actions when he is down to 12 years old, the Minister says. Well, I expect that children down in the nursery class in Denmark will be confronted with their actions if they do something that they are not allowed to do. I ask very simply: is the age of crime reduced from 15 years to 12 years, as both the Minister for Justice and myself thought before the election of the Parliament? Will what was promised to the electorate be fulfilled? Are we getting a criminal low age of 12 years?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516182835	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516182836	Now I think the questioner should wait and see the proposal that we are making. It might be that it is very good and that the questioner will think how the government has got such brilliant thoughts. What is important to me is that there is consistency and that it is the first time. It is also important to me that we do not have a system in which we put children in prison. I think that we are in complete agreement on this, but that there should be a consequence. There must be a system of sanctions for the 12-year-old and up. I fully agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516182909	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516182913	Thank you, sir. President. There are some who say that we should not go too far around the hot porridge, but the present government and at least the previous government have done so, it has to be said, because the porridge has gone cold. And now the Minister apparently has an agenda that says that the pot will now be overheated to get it warmed up again. But why take so long to investigate something that we all know? For it was something concrete when, before the last elections, a common agreement was reached and said that if there were a majority for it in the Folketing, we would restore a lower criminal low age in Denmark. There were four parties that agreed on this on the basis of the information and experience there was, the knowledge there was, the concrete figures there were, the statistics there was. There is nothing new there, except that time has passed, the porridge has become cold. Now we come here today, long after that agreement has been reached, and hear that the Minister says: now we have put some new porridge over; now it has to be warmed up, and then we will see how it is going to go. Does the Minister not recognize that there is a problem of explanation? After all, the minister himself has made himself the bannerman of the fact that it was too bad that the previous government, the Left Government, did not carry this out and that, if the matter was not taken seriously, it was actually a breach of the promise. So does the Minister himself not think that you are more than slow?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516183032	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516183033	Whether the porridge is cold or hot, I think we should at least make a dish which will be very good and which will also mean that we will have concrete and firm action against twelve-year-olds and the elderly. Now I can be pleased to say that there is no long process ahead, because as I said, the government is very, very soon about to come up with a proposal. Then I am quite sure that this will lead to the Danish People's Party and the government in any case being able to look into the eyes of other parties in the Danish Parliament and say: could there not be a common platform here? We'll see when we get this far. But I do not necessarily believe that the proposal that comes from the government, when we are so done with it, will be something to which the questioner will say: that was terrible and the porridge is cold. Perhaps the questioner will actually say: it was still good that we were waiting for it. Because we have brought in the whole palette and it is a very good proposal that comes along.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516183129	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516183132	I have to say that I think it is a little awkward of the Minister that the Minister is not here today in the Danish Parliament, where the Minister has had a great deal of time to prepare for the questions that are being asked. The question is very specific, whether the government will go in and support, that we will have the criminal age lowered, something that the Minister's own party and a majority in the Folketing agreed before the elections that, if you obtained a majority, you would want. It should be relatively simple and precise to say: yes, it is something we are working for; it is something we want to implement in Danish legislation. The Minister should be able to answer that very precisely.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516183206	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516183208	Yes, it may well happen that the Minister should do so, but I would just like to point out once again that the proposal we are making is an overall proposal that comes all the way around juvenile delinquency. There is consistent and clear action being taken against young people from 12 years of age. How we're gonna put this together, I'd really like to discuss it with the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516183229	There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516183234	Almost every time we discuss something in the area of justice, I have asked where the other leg of the stake is. Punishment is useless. We must also prevent and re-socialise, especially in young people, where there is a greater chance that we can still reach them and get them on the right track. When I ask where the prevention is, the Minister for Justice has always referred to the fact that we should not talk about that now, we should not talk about that now, because there will be a debate on juvenile delinquency in the near future. Then I just get worried when the Minister of Justice says almost directly that now there's a juvenile court, that is, for children down to 12 years, in this game. That is at least the assurance I belonged to DF, because it will mean that we were not able to see us in the otherwise important work. So just to understand: is the Minister trying to say between the lines that what the DF is proposing here is contained in the proposal coming from the government soon, or can the Minister reassure me to say no, because that is something that is slightly broader so that we can make a very broad agreement among the parties of the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516183346	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516183347	After all, it is the motion for a resolution of the Danish People's Party that we are discussing, and we will soon come up with a proposal from the government on juvenile delinquency which will take care of the whole palette. In other words, how do we apply ourselves consistently and firmly to young people from 12 years of age upwards? This does not mean that there is no prevention, because I think that prevention is absolutely essential if we are to avoid a number of young people getting into this petty crime, and then they get into something even worse crime and then worse again. If we want to avoid them coming there, we need active preventive action. Then it is just that I say that it should go hand in hand with the fact that it also has consequences when you do something that you cannot do. That is how I think every parent, or at least most parents, raises their children. You don't just get to keep smashing things up at home. Then you put it in and you stop it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516183442	Lisbeth Bech Poulsen for a second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516183446	Now the Minister is saying over and over again that it must have consequences. Does the Minister think that if you are young, that is, before you are of age, or before you are 16 years old, that is if you are very young who are 13-14 years old, you do very serious crime, for example. violence, personal injury, what can be at the very end of the day, that we have a system where it is completely without consequences if you make serious crime when you are 13-14 years old?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516183519	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516183521	No, I don't think so, but I think we have a big problem in that when young people start to get into something petty-crime, they don't get stopped. Too many things happen. They get to commit too many relationships. If you had stopped them for the first time, when they did some minor things, if they have gone and kicked some things downtown, smashed some windows, and it had had a consequence the first time, and you also had to do something for society because you have done this, I think you could keep some young people from moving on into crime. I myself have seen in my previous job how young people have just progressed further and further, because well-meaning adults forgot to take action with consistency. We have to start when they start doing criminal acts. It's not the first time they commit serious violence. This is the first time we have to start, that is where I think we need better preventive tools.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516183613	There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Bendixen, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516183618	Thank you. Is the Minister aware that before the elections the bourgeois parties actually had an agreement to lower the age of criminals and also to introduce a juvenile court?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516183632	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516183633	I fully acknowledge that the four parties have tabled a joint proposal. Well, it would be quite absurd if I tried to say that we didn't. For now we have been working with a large number of professionals for a long time, and that is why we are now coming up with a proposal that could well happen that the Danish People's Party might actually think was really, really good on long stretches. It could be that we have qualified for what we four parties did together at one time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516183659	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516183701	It might be, but it's not possible to say when we can't really get an answer as to whether these elements are part of this incredibly exciting project that's going to come from the government. Could the Minister not be kind enough to reveal whether this is at least part of the excellent work already being done?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516183716	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516183717	Yes, we are discussing the proposal of the Danish People's Party, but I shall look forward to presenting this proposal. Because we must come all the way around, and I do not think it is good that there are some elements of a future government proposal that we are not finished with yet, which I am presenting here from the platform. But again: I may not think it was quite impossible that the Danish People's Party could actually think that it was a very good proposal that came from the government. Then we may have different positions, we will then have to get in place afterwards, but we will take that into a debate, just as we do with so many other matters, in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516183757	No one else has asked for brief comments, and we thank the Minister. We shall then move on to the rapporteur's line and the first is Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516183807	Yeah, after the back crawl, it's time to swim forward here. With the proposal, the Danish People's Party wants the age limit to be reduced to 12 years and a youth court to be established for young people from 12 years of age and up to 17 years of age. It can hardly come as a surprise that this is a proposal that we in the Social Democratic Party cannot support, and unlike the Minister, the Social Democratic Party has not changed its position since the elections, nor since October last year. We do not believe that the solution to juvenile delinquency is to give a verdict to more young people and thereby brand them as criminals, and we also note that with that attitude we are fully in line with virtually all the professionals and experts involved in the area. Instead of reducing the age of criminals, we need a new system to ensure social consequences when young people violate the law and there is room for improvement here. We must do much earlier with young people. The first time they have joined, teachers and educators and social services, parents of the child and police, and together they must take social action with social sanctions, so that the child feels that breaking the law is a consequence. It is absolutely essential that we stop the criminal course early, and it is therefore prevention measures that work best. However, every effort must also be made to get the young person who has become involved in crime back on track. For example, if you have stolen from the grocery store, you can help him sweep the street in the coming weeks, and if you have painted graffiti, you can be allowed to clean the windows. But there is a long way to go from this kind of sanctions to a judgment handed down by a proper court, with a stain on the criminal record, even if you are young. In addition, we believe that we should look at the families where there are smaller siblings for those who commit crime. It is therefore essential that the alarm bells ring. We know that if the older brother is a criminal, then the risk that the younger brother will be, too, is very great, and if parents can't figure out how to be parents and keep track of their children, that is to say that they come up in the morning and that they come home in the evening, then this is where they have to be put in. There are so many other good tools than lowering the criminal low age and introducing a juvenile court that gives spots on the criminal record, effective tools that we can use instead of what the Danish People's Party is proposing. We in the Social Democratic Party believe that much more needs to be done to stop the ever fewer young criminals, fortunately, and that action must be taken much earlier than is the case today. However, we do not believe that reducing the age of criminals is a good tool, nor is the type of court that the Danish People's Party is calling for and on which there was a broad consensus among the blue parties before the last parliamentary elections, and therefore we cannot support the proposal here. However, we would very much like to discuss how to strengthen the fight against juvenile delinquency, which is why we are calling on the Minister of Justice to call for negotiations soon. Now we've been waiting so long for this juvenile delinquency game. A year ago it was also said that it came next month, so we wait and hope that it will lead to a new effort. That is what is needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516184140	There is a desire for short remarks. First, it's sir. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516184145	Thank you. I am somewhat provoked by the fact that the rapporteur starts by saying that young people will be branded as criminals if, for example, they are to support it with this youth court. The rapporteur also mentions a number of examples of what it might be. It is not the case that we as such want people to go to prison. The sanctions, the sentences, can also be multi-faceted. I would have liked to have said that the rapporteur was a little bit concerned about cleaning up after himself. Clean up after vandalism, repair damage, therapeutic conversations, stay at a post-school or other similar sentences, it could be some of what was handed down by a juvenile court. It is not something that makes people criminal, as the rapporteurs postulate, when they say it comes to the criminal record of young people. There's no record in this at all. There is a youth certificate, and I think the rapporteur should perhaps refer to that. Has the rapporteur even read what this proposal actually says? So there is a difference between a youth record and a criminal record.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516184243	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516184244	But it may also be that the Danish People's Party has changed its position since the last elections, because what was in the original proposal was that you should have a stain on the criminal record, and that is what I referred to in my speech. We in the Social Democrats do not think this is a good idea, not least because all research shows that it does not lead to anything good, that you have this in your luggage, where some can see that you committed crime when you were 12 years old, for example. It makes it harder to get an apprenticeship when you're 17. But if the Danish People's Party has also changed its mind on this issue, it is only gratifying.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516184318	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516184319	Now I do not know if there is much research that will be able to conclude that crime makes you feel better. I think it might be interesting. That is what the rapporteur claims, in other words, that there is only research that says that it does not help to commit criminal acts. No, I don't think so. I guess it could never do that. Of course, it is not something that does good for your future if you commit something criminal, vandalize or violence or anything else. But we also have to consider that there is, in fact, about one sixth of these juvenile criminals who commit gross willful violence. It's violence and threats of violence, and it's robbery and sexual assault. It's not just street robbery and utility theft we're talking about here. Some people are doing something of a slightly coarser nature, and that is what I perhaps think the rapporteur should reflect a little more on.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516184405	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516184406	Well, I don't think I fully understand the first part. No, there is no research that indicates that if you commit crime you will have a better life. However, there is very extensive research which shows that stains on the criminal record impair the possibility of taking an education later in life. I think that what happened in 2011 when we chose to set up the criminal low age again is very interesting. The previous government, before we took it over, reduced it to 14 years, and we set it up to 15 years. And what happened? Crime continued to fall even very massively among the 14-year-olds. So that it should have an effect to lower the criminal low age to 12 years, there is nothing to indicate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516184449	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516184454	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. I look forward to getting on the floor myself when the time comes, because hopefully I will be able to correct some of the misunderstandings in the rapporteur's speech about this proposal. Somewhere, however, I think it is brave that the Danish People's Party is putting forward a proposal that very specifically says how we would have done it if we had 90 mandates. It just makes me curious about how the Social Democrats would deal with this if you had 90 mandates and were able to decide exactly what you wanted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516184523	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516184524	I think we have made this very clear. I have certainly made it very clear that we would vote against it, even if we had 90 mandates. We ourselves have a proposal for a completely new concept of juvenile delinquency. We also presented a very comprehensive package of solutions up to the last elections, in which I think there are very good ideas. I mentioned some of these, among others. the Norwegian model, which reacts promptly when a child or a young person commits crime, and uses social sanctions. I think that is really important elements. We have also been out today suggesting that whole families can be put in an institution if it is the family that cannot work and that we make sure that the focus is on small sisters in families. There are a number of other measures, because something needs to be done. I also think I made that very clear, and that is why we have impatiently moved for this government initiative so that we can start negotiating.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516184620	Sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen, second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516184622	Well, I understand. So I should like to ask more specifically: can we expect a real proposal from the Socialists, that is, a package, possibly in connection with the government's own proposal, which can then be negotiated? I think it would be interesting to have a final model of what the Socialists would like to do in this area when we are going to negotiate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516184644	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516184645	Well, in fact, there is already a social democracy initiative that we launched up to the last elections. We are still happy to stand on target for that. We believe that it is exactly the right thoughts that lie in it, and I wonder if the Minister for Justice does not end up copying a large part of what is in that proposal. We then have some further proposals to build on, and I shall be happy to present Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen too.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516184711	No one else has asked for short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Preben Bang Henriksen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516184724	Thank you. Unfortunately, young people under the age of 15 are committing crime to a certain extent, but fortunately on a declining scale, even to a much-decreasing extent. We could, if I may say so, rest on the laurels and say that it is a good thing and that it will be better next year, but there are examples, as was also highlighted by the Social Democrat rapporteur, in which little brother is pushed in the front by big brother and in which, in this way, a criminal career is established, which unfortunately tends to hang around the rest of the days. We have to get hold of them. We fully acknowledge that on the Left side, and that is why we are also fully confident that there will now be a move from the government. We need to get them for a number of reasons. The primary reason for getting hold of the young people who are on their way to a criminal career is, of course, that they should not continue the race, as I say. The secondary reason is that we cannot actually be quite comfortable with the system we have today, where it can be said that many young people are being sentenced in the social system without the participation of a judge, without the involvement of a defender and without the usual guarantees of legal certainty. We would also like to see this done in the same vein. So it is clear that we are trying to come up with something on the part of the government that meets the government's basis, namely a tangible response that has consequences, a tailor-made effort and so on, which is, moreover, the government's basis. I am a little surprised that the Danish People's Party is so incredibly impatient. We have the Minister of Justice's word that there will be a move from the government. I think we should go ahead and wait for that. It is one that has been worked on in, as the Danish People's Party has indicated, a very long time, and I must admit that it has been the case. But that's the way it is with whoever's waiting for something good. I can at least say from the Left that when we look at the Danish People's Party's proposal today, I expect on behalf of the Left that there are very, very many of the things that the Danish People's Party brings into its excellent proposal today, which one will be able to find in the proposal that comes from the government. If that is not the case, and the government comes up with a proposal that simply does not live up to it at all, then bring it back. And I can say that calmly, because I am quite sure that the government does not. I think that in the Danish People's Party's proposal there are so many excellent aspects that I am sure they can be found in the government's proposal. But it is a comprehensive work, and it is not a problem that we can just take with our left hand. That's why I have to say, give the government time. The Minister of Justice has certainly not put on months and days, but, I mean, I will be personally disappointed if there is no proposal before we meet again in the Folketing after the summer break. I think we can expect that, and I would suggest that we wait. With regard to legal certainty for young people, I have mentioned what this means: hopefully, in the system we come up with, which is probably referred to as a juvenile criminal tribunal, a judge for the table-end who can ensure legal certainty, even for minors. But I can guarantee one thing, and it is important for me to make it clear here: children are not going to prison today and children are not going to jail in the future. I guarantee it. When it is so important to make clear to me, it is because there have been parties outside also in the recent election campaign that have, as it were, sought to misinterpret the ideas that have been advanced, that now children should go to prison. Sadly, too many people have listened to that. But I can say in relation to the Danish People's Party's proposal that we cannot formally support it, because there is a proposal coming from the government, probably within 1, 2, 3 months, and so we will not be laying down any details in another proposal such as the excellent proposal made by the Danish People's Party. But that is also why we do not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516185205	There is a request for a brief comment from Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516185209	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I welcome the part of the one about the fact that many of the elements in the Danish People's Party's proposal should go back to what the government is going to present. And then, of course, the rapporteur on the law of the Left also guaranteed that children should not go to prison. I would like to know whether the Left's legal rapporteur can also guarantee something else. Now I just found an article from 30 May 2015 from Danmarks Radio, and the headline, which I now just read out, is: Left guarantees: 12-year-olds must be able to be punished if the blue block wins the election. Then follows a longer interview with the then Legal Rapporteur of the Left, Karsten Lauritzen, who makes it quite clear that if the blue block won the elections in 2015 and we did, fortunately, and many of us are happy about it, then a new system would have to be created, and then the low age of the criminal would have to be reduced to 12 years. It was a guarantee from the Left. I want to know if that guarantee still applies.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516185306	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516185306-2	As far as I heard, I don't always go straight with Karsten Lauritzen quotes in my pocket, but I don't doubt the correctness... it was that 12-year-olds had to be punished. So it is just necessary to find out that when you use terms that are punished, when you use terms that are criminally low age, what are we talking about? Yes, if you say that washing graffiti off a house wall and getting a juvenile felony warrant saying that you should wash off that graffiti you messed up the wall with on Saturday is a punishment, yes, then a 12-year-old should start doing it without a doubt. If it's a punishment, he's gonna be home by 2:00 a.m. Twenty-two in the evening... or even before... yes, it's also a punishment, and then twelve-year-olds must also be punished. But I have to say that when we talk about the criminal low age, then it is section 15 of the penal code that we are talking about. It is so easy to remember because it is 15 years of age and it says that actions taken by children under the age of 15 are not punished. So you can turn and discuss whether scraping graffiti off a wall is a punishment or not. So that's a bit of a taste question, I'd say. But if the questioner thinks it's a punishment to scrape graffiti off a wall, yes, then 12-year-olds should be punished. But they are not going to jail, nor are they going to have what we normally understand by punishment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516185429	Peter Kofod Poulsen for another round.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516185431	Then I shall try to be more specific about the questions I am asking now, because it was made very clear that if you won the elections and there were some bourgeois parties in power, yes, you would lower the criminal low age to 12 years. That's the guarantee. I just need to know if that's the guarantee that's still alive. Well, can we count on the government to work hard to bring down the criminal low age to 12 years?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516185458	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516185459	What I am sure is that, as far as young people are concerned, there will be a penalty as low as 12 years. Then the questioner can ask if it is a lowering of the criminal low age. I just have to say: the punishments we are talking about I almost have to say in the goose's eyes and the sanctions we are talking about down there are about that it may be that you have to be home by the time of somethin' or wash the wall or wash the car you have the bastard's car. And if it's a punishment in the sense of the penal code... and I find it difficult to find out if it's a crime... then you could put forward the view that the criminal low age is being reduced. However, it is with this modification that we are introducing a number of new special sanctions which must be appropriate to the situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516185543	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party, wishes to make a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516185546	Thank you. When the rapporteur chooses to say in his speech today that this is something we must have great respect for and that a new government basis has been written, I would say that we in the Danish People's Party have, in this way, all due respect for that. However, we may wonder a little about the fact that, before the elections, you choose to agree to a joint speech describing what you really want to promote if you get the majority after the elections. So can the rapporteur try to involve us a little in the deeper meaning of this? So why do the Left choose to join in a joint, very concrete and detailed speech and say that if these four parties win the elections and get the majority, the criminal low age will be reduced to 12 years? That is the very brief and precise wording of the speech that was sent. But why does the Left choose to do so when they do not choose to pursue it immediately after the elections?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516185638	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516185639	On the question of why we do not choose to pursue it immediately after the elections, I have to say that I do not think the questioner is completely unaware that one thing is the overall ideas one has, another is the detailed legal provisions that one wants to implement. And I don't think we can blame the Minister of Justice, the government or the Ministry of Justice for that matter, for having to review the specific provisions. So this is an incredibly important matter before making a proper formulation of a law to be adopted. As I said, all honour and respect for the fact that the Danish People's Party is clamping on here, but excuse me, I think, as the Minister for Justice has indicated, that the Danish People's Party will be very pleased when you see what the governing parties are doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516185728	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby, second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516185730	Yes, but it may well be that we will be very satisfied with what will now be the crown jewel at some summer group meeting in the government, or whatever it will end up being, where you have to crown yourself as a great victor. That's fair enough. In principle, however, I simply do not understand the logic of the fact that the Left, which was then the largest bourgeois party, chose to join a common chronicle which said: if we get a majority, it is quite clear and unambiguous that we will lower the age of crime. Why do you choose to go along with it when you cannot deliver on it, two years after the elections have been held? We in the Danish People's Party simply do not understand that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516185806	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516185807	Why do you choose to write the magic when you can't deliver on it 2 years later? Well, sir. Shipby doesn't beat cold water in the blood and then see if the government can deliver on it? That's what I'm saying, so it's a question of one, two, three months. And I do not understand the reaction of the Danish People's Party at all. You're supposed to be a kistlet. Now there has been a government on whose behalf at least on behalf of the Left I say that we will have a result that is not far from what the Danish People's Party brings here. Then you should smile all over the femur, but that's not exactly the look on my face.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516185843	Mrs Pernille Bendixen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516185847	Well, maybe we'd smile if we found out a little bit about what was in that fantastic exciting play. We are then further accused of being extremely impatient, and I have to say that when it comes to a joint motion for a resolution before the elections, and then there has been a considerable amount of time and at least more than two years, I do not think it is impatient, on the contrary, I think it is a question of achieving that policy, but in this way it has been put to the vote. So it's just that we want to know: what happened to that guarantee? Can't you just at least say, okay, that's something we're working on, guys?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516185923	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516185924	Yeah, that's kind of what I'm saying. That's something we've been working on for two years. But it is not as easy as taking a newspaper crown and calling it a bill divided into sections 1, 2 and 3. It's not that easy. I think the Danish People's Party would be the closest to criticising the government if the government did not commit itself to clarifying what it was really meant in the language of law, if I may say so. It is a question of setting up juvenile delinquency boards. That is how I see it, at least, there must be a significant sanction, there must be consequences, there must be sanctions, which we have not seen so far. I have mentioned restorative justice, that is to say to restore the damage caused and there are a number of other sanctions. Well, you can't blame the Justice Department for wanting to think the situation through. It is with all due respect a revolution at the end of Danish justice that we are talking about here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516190024	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516190027	So let's see if we can get the veil out of what happens if we don't want to comply with those sanctions, like being home by 8 a.m. 22, or that you should wash off graffiti. So, what do you think? So what's going to happen instead? What are some of the thoughts about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516190045	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516190046	This is an extremely relevant issue, and I have to say that one has to wait and see how the government will formulate its real legislation and its legislative notes. But I can guarantee one thing to the questioner, and that is that this government does not make a law, according to which, if you do not comply with the specific provision to be home at bedtime or whatever it may be, nothing will happen about it. Then I should know the Minister of Justice very badly. So again, let's put cold water in the blood.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516190112	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next speaker is Mr. Rune Lund as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516190134	From the point of view of the Enhedslisten, we cannot support this proposal as a whole. However, we think that the first part of the proposal has a lot of sensible thought in it, and that is really what I hear from several other rapporteurs, that is when we talk about a particular legal path for young people. From our point of view, we think it is important to have a specific legal trail for young people, we think this is a very good idea, and we think it is a good thing to have to discuss it, and we look forward to discussing it in the context of the forthcoming negotiations. So we can support the intention behind and the ideas of that element, namely that there is a need to discuss something more, how we can use restorative justice, to restore justice, to children and to young people outside the general system of justice. Those thoughts are clear Unity Tankage, and that is a good way to have an approach. However, we cannot support reducing the age of criminals, and we cannot support reducing them to 14, 13 or 12 years. That is why we will not be voting in favour of this motion for a resolution. If you look at the statistics and what the group of young people who commit crime is doing from crime, it is typically such things as theft, vandalism and theft of use. To put it a little harshly, when children commit crime, it is because they steal candy from the grocery store, graffiti from the neighbor or steal a bike to drive home on. Of course you can't. When there are children who do such a thing, they must be watched and care must be taken to see what problems lie behind them and that this is not something that turns into a criminal career. This is where the primary school has already to look at the worrying behaviour that some children may have and look at the cooperation between the police and the municipality. For example: You can look at how to solve some of these problems and intervene early with preventive action. If you choose to punish children through a criminal justice system, it can have very violent consequences, among others. because the criminal justice system is not geared at all to dealing with children, but also because they are given a stained criminal record and therefore worse prospects for the future. We must not neglect the stigmatisation that may lie in it. In terms of reducing the criminal low age, it has been attempted under the former bourgeois government of the VK. It was reduced to 14 years in 2009, and this did not change the pattern of crime among 14-year-olds. Here the police could also tell it was East Jutland Police that the only change they experienced was that now they had to spend much more time dealing with small cases and rapes, etc., because this is usually what children make when they violate the law. The criminal low age was then fortunately set up again when a new government came to power in 2011. After all, children do not necessarily think about the consequences of their actions in the way that adults do before the trap claps. They have not yet learned that, and therefore a lower criminal low age will not stop them in any action they may take. For children are not so calculating and so foresightful. They have not yet learned to think about the way adults think, and thus they do not think about the consequences of their actions. That is why, at best, a lowered criminal shallow age will be powerless and, as far as possible, it can be harmful at worst. What is our goal is to keep young people out of a criminal race. However, children do not have a maturity and development which means that they are similarly able to predict the consequences of their actions and operate in a criminal justice system. That is precisely why we are sending them into a strong social system, because, of course, breaking the law should not be a consequence. There must be a strong social hand teaching young people who have crossed the border how to behave like a responsible person. But if you send children into a criminal justice system instead, you risk teaching them, not how you are responsible, as you should be, but how you are a criminal. There is therefore a risk of stamping children and aggravating the situation. Therefore, the proposal to lower the criminal low age symbol of the worst drawer, which will at best be powerless, but which is likely to be seriously harmful. However, the first part of the bill on how we can look at how we can create a more parallel legal trail for young people is exciting, and I would go so far as to say that if the Danish People's Party dropped the last part of the proposal, we could be persuaded to vote for it here with the ideas that are thus behind it and also in the way described in some places in the comments.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516190658	There are brief comments, and the first questioner is Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516190702	Thank you. Let me start with where we agree, because I think it is a good thing that Enhedslisten goes on the platform and says that one would like to have a particular legal trail for the young criminals. I also regard it as a form of fast track, one might say, an opportunity to quickly bring these young people to justice and to find an appropriate sanction. But I really can't understand why Enhedslisten is so pretty much religiously preoccupied with this criminal low age of 15 years, and why it has to be 15 years. Well, if you're going to follow the logic of the rapporteur's speech, what is Enhedslisten's dream of this low age? Should it be 18 if Enhedslisten were to decide? Well, where would we put the cut? Or should there be a special system for the entire large group of young people up to 18 years of age that could take care of them and ensure that they do not grow into deep crime where it can be harder to get them out later?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516190802	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516190803	I can say that we do not have any current plans to propose setting up the criminal low age. Nor do we have any current plans, absolutely not, to put it down. This was very clear from my rapporteur's speech. What is important to us when we talk about children and children are children until they are 18 years old is that we think of educational efforts, that we think of social efforts, that we think of supporting efforts to catch problems as early as possible, so that early in these young people's lives we can make sure that they are shown that there is a different path than the one on which they may be heading in relation to a criminal career. And that is really what this is all about. As for all that talk about the criminal low age being reduced and it must sound extremely hard and so the problem is that if you get a criminal record as a child, if you are stamped in this way, and if you are to be pulled through such an outright court-like system as the adult gets through, it will be a very, very violent experience and an experience that will not benefit the young person in showing the way to another way of living his life and taking care of himself.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516190915	Does the questioner have a follow-up question? Peter Kofod Poulsen, the questioner. ) Okay, so please press next time. But here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516190919	Thank you. I'm just gonna ask sir. Rune Lund, where in this proposal the criminal record will appear as something that is very clear. In our proposal, we write very explicitly that we want a special youth certificate, precisely because we want to avoid the scenario that Mr. Rune Lund is talking about, and precisely because we have taken on board some of the good proposals that have been made in the debate. We would like to provide an incentive for young people to get out of crime if they are entering it. So I'd like to hear Mr. Rune Lund's relationship with the criminal record. Should he not rather acknowledge the motivational element contained in the youth certificate proposed by the Danish People's Party with the proposal here?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516191002	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516191003	I have seen that there is the proposal for the youth certificate. The way in which the comments are formulated may make it appear that it is a little a different form of criminal record, I would say, with the wordings that have been used. That is not quite clear from the comments, exactly how it is intended, I think, as I read the B proposal. But what I think is good and that is where one might be a little alarmed that the Danish People's Party is being praised for a proposal in the field of justice; it is not always the case that the whole idea is that we are making a special legal trail for young people with a restoring approach to justice. We think that is a very correct way of looking at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516191048	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516191051	Thank you, sir. President. It is actually very significant that when the Danish People's Party wants this topic to be highlighted in the Parliamentary Chamber on the basis of this motion for a resolution, Enhedslisten's rapporteur says that it should be about bicycle theft and graffiti and candy theft. We were quite prepared to do so, because that is the way it is usually done in this Chamber by means of repeated séances. But I just think it is important that the rapporteur is also aware of the fact and I would like to ask whether the rapporteur is actually aware of the fact that one in six of the offences that are being committed, both with regard to convicted persons and those who are suspected of having done something, is actually sexual assault, it is violence and threats, and it is robbery. Is Enhedslisten really aware that we are not talking about candy thefts? It's not graffiti, and it's not bike theft either. It's actually something that's such a celebrity rougher. Actually, that's what's called perilous crime.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516191152	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516191153	After all, most of the crime that is committed is not perilous crime. Then there are a number of things that are also perilous crime. However, regardless of the crime committed by children, even in the case of very serious crime and perilous crime, it is again the social effort, the educational effort, that is important. A firm framework must be set up, a plan must be put in place for the young person to be steered away from the path on which he lives and spends his time. That is what is important here. I have no wish to give the impression that all crime committed by children is only to steal candy from the merchant, for it is certainly not, although it is the most important part of the crime that is being committed. That is also why we saw that it did not have a change in the pattern of crime when the criminal low age was reduced in 2009 under the government of the VK. But that meant that the police would have to spend far more resources on handling small cases, for example. on rapes. And it also says something about what kind of crime it is that dominates when we talk about children.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516191312	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516191313	Now it's a little obvious that Mr. Rune Lund constantly mentions the young people as children. Well, how do you define a child? If you are 17 years old and 10 months old and you commit a robbery, an armed robbery, or a sexual assault, is it a child who has done it or is it a young person? When we talk about something like that, for example. I know that the rapporteur has been very energetic about the fact that young people too have to vote and have the right to vote earlier than at 18, as it is today. We have to make young people's elections. Why does Mr. Rune Lund constantly refer to them as children and not as young people? I think that is quite a matter of principle. Then I still think it is wrong, in principle, that Mr. Rune Lund consciously goes in and cares about this with theft of candy and something like that, when we can prove that one in six of these convicted criminals is convicted of perilous crime. They are the ones we must try to agree to. After all, there are many victims on the other end, and perhaps I think Enhedslisten should assess that a little better.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516191413	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516191414	I think maybe, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby should listen to what I actually say, because the idea of a special, parallel legal trail for young people we basically think is a sensible approach for children. That is what we think is important. But all the talk about putting the criminal low age down with all the problems it will cause is simply something we cannot support. However, the idea that we are doing what works and doing restoring justice is a very sensible starting point and that is a starting point that we can also support.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516191450	The next question is Mrs Pernille Bendixen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516191453	Thank you. The rapporteur keeps on talking about this preventive action and the social and educational efforts, and I do not think anyone in here disagrees with it at all. The proposal also shows that it is part of it. So why does the rapporteur think that, if we lower the age of criminals, we have ruled out all early efforts and all educational measures?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516191515	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516191516	Of course you have not, but if you lower the age of criminals, you will have a lot of the harmful effects that I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516191526	Does the questioner want another question? She does. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516191529	So this is obviously something the rapporteur is just thinking. Another thing that the rapporteur also thinks freely from the imagination is that a youth certificate is suddenly turned into a criminal record without, in fact, saying it in black and white. Why is it that the rapporteur reads something he does not really read anyway, but transfers it to the effect that it is just a criminal record?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516191548	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516191549	I think it is rather unclear what exactly the function of the youth certificate should be in the way the comments are formulated. What is important to me is that we should have a parallel legal trail for children and young people, because this is the best way to deal with it. We need to use the starting point of restoring justice, in which we are giving young people a sanction, a penalty, if you will, with which we ensure the sense of justice, which must have an educational purpose and which must also be linked to the crime that has been committed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516191625	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next is Mrs Christina Egelund as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516191635	Thank you, President. We must make an effort to help young people who, very early in their lives, end up in a criminal career which can be totally destructive to them for the rest of their lives and, of course, also destructive to those who may have been victims of their criminal acts. That's why the government is working on a political issue about that very thing. It is, of course, an effort that must be distinguished from the way we deal with adult criminals, taking into account that young people are young and not adults; where security, consistency and help go hand in hand; where we listen to the professionals who know something about juvenile crime. Because there is a concerted approach and we believe that we must support holistic action, the Liberal Alliance does not support this otherwise very good motion for a resolution, but we look forward very much to the discussion of the government's proposal when it comes to it. And as they say, all good things come to him who waits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516191740	Thank you to the rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist as rapporteur for the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516191751	Thank you. With the motion for a resolution, the authors of the motion for a resolution want a youth court to be set up and the criminal age to be reduced to 12 years. The alternative cannot in any way support a resolution that would criminalise children as young as 12 years of age. The criminal low age is the limit of what age we as a society want to punish people, and in no way do we think it is worthwhile to lower the criminal low age to these 12 years. After all, the President-in-Office of the Council has also spoken against lowering the age of criminals and saying that it will increase the risk of continuing the criminal career after having received the first sentence. The Chairman of the Children's Council states that a criminal low age of 12 years is contrary to the whole idea of the UN Children's Convention and that we should think in terms of social and educational opportunities rather than criminalisation and punishment. And that is the whole point: we must not criminalise children at the age of 12; we must think in social and educational terms. The alternative has nothing against holding our children and young people responsible and showing that actions have consequences. The proposers themselves write in the motion for a resolution: "All young people can, as a starting point, think in terms of consequences, regardless of whether it is about crime or other aspects of life. Exactly why young people do not jump off the Round Tower or lie down on a busy highway. At present, criminal acts also have consequences. It already has today. But if, at 12, you are ready to link punishment and action, we are far from sure. Are there any cases today where there are young people in individual cases who are spared punishment because of the low age of crime? Yes, of course there is, but we do not believe that the problem is solved by lowering the age of crime. The solutions are more, but among other things, that efforts must be made well before the 12 years. A study from the SFI shows that the alarm lights are already flashing when children are 7 years old. The abuse of alcohol by parents, the lack of law - abidingness and the general well - being of children in schools are well - known factors. Therefore, if you really want to lower the already falling juvenile delinquency, you have to take action much earlier, not with punishment, but with social measures. The authors of the motion for a resolution also state that the intention is not to change the scope for sanctions and sanctions, which, of course, calls for the good question: why would a special youth court then be set up if the current sanctions and placement options appear to be appropriate? Our Minister for Justice wrote in a speech in Altinget as an argument as to why we should introduce a youth court: "Too many times I have seen and heard about young boys and girls who are heading out the wrong path, being met with well-meaning intentions, but far too much sweet soup and thus real indifference. ▪ I think this is a very strange way of reducing social work to sweet soup and real indifference. On this myth Kim Østerby, the president of the Association of Prisons, has said to Altinget: "The indifferent circled notion of social work is a myth. It is my clear view that the people who work with criminal youth are not only competent, but also meet young people with consistent efforts. The focus is on alternatives to crime. Remember: there is no one, let alone children and young people, who dream of a crime-filled life, rather than education, jobs and family. So there are more who have mentioned that there could be elements in this proposal for this legal trail that might be sensible, and therefore I am actually surprised that so many parts are being incorporated into this resolution. Because could you look at how we deal with crime among the 15-18-year-olds in a different way and how we look at that legal trail? Yes, you could see that, but going down to the age of 12 is by no means supportive.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516192215	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516192219	Thank you. Some of the points raised by the rapporteur are, in fact, very fair in that, of course, we must focus on the well-being of children, even before they are, for example, 12 years old. We fully share that in the Danish People's Party, certainly. I would like to ask the rapporteur about this: over many years we have had the opportunity to implement these young demands via the municipalities. After all, the young person and the young person's family are being tightened up. If the young person is on his way to something bad, then the social authorities have the opportunity to give a young post and say: "You must be home after 2 p.m. 20.00, you must be home at certain times, or you must clean up after vandalism. It could be all sorts of other things. If those things are not done then the municipality is allowed to withhold part of the social benefits that the young person's parents may receive. This is something that has not been practiced very much in the municipalities because you do not want to do so, and there are various reasons for this. But I would just like to ask the rapporteur: is this something that the alternative can see the sense of perhaps starting to exploit the young instructions which have been here for many years and which are actually an option within the legislation in force?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516192330	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516192331	No, we do not in any way support the withdrawal of citizens from benefits because there are these conditions. On the other hand, social action must be taken. It does not produce good results by removing benefits from people, that is, by creating more poverty. That's not the way we create the good society and actually help these kids and young people.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516192352	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516192352-2	You might then ask if it makes people better to get more benefits. If the rapporteur's argument is that they will not be better off with fewer benefits, would they be better off with more benefits? It might be interesting to know whether that was the policy of the alternative. I think it is basically a problem that we do not dare to make more targeted demands on these young families, where both parents and young people are out on a rather macabre slippery path compared to the fact that they do not have normal health and daily life. And there we have to make some demands to get through with it, and one of the ways to get to these parents is among other things. to go into the economic part of it and say that some of their benefits could be reduced if they did not comply with the rules of the game that they have been given in relation to the municipality and the social authorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516192445	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516192447	Whether it would make it better if people got more benefits? Indeed, I think it would be better to abolish the poverty benefits, the ceiling on cash aid, etc., which is pushing people into poverty. So I think it would do better if we didn't push people into poverty. This also says again that what must be the consequence is that we have a social and educational effort. We are talking about children, and that is the way to help children and young people move on.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516192514	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. The next speaker is Mr. Kristian Hegaard as rapporteur for the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516192522	I guess it should work. Right now, a lot of 12- and 13-year-olds are playing at home with each other with no worries. They may play PlayStation, hang out in the local football club, or maybe they do homework together. At least they're all together with no worries. That's what it's supposed to be like when you're a kid, and that's what it's supposed to be like when you grow up. The Radical Left will at any time strengthen children's opportunities and not restrictions, and therefore we simply cannot see the logical reasons why children should be behind bars rather than playing. Now I myself am a law student when I am not allowed to sit in here, and lawyers are often accused of laws being intricate and incoherent, but here there is actually a very easy construction of the rules. It is actually so easy that section 15 of the Penal Code says that the criminal age is 15 years old. Why change the very logical context? I'm kidding. The even more logical argument is, of course, that we do not think that it makes Denmark more focused on children's limitations; we would rather spend time strengthening children's opportunities, how we get more through the education system rather than locking them in, letting them out into the big world rather than shutting them inside a cell. The Radical Left cannot support the creation of youth courts under the guise of also lowering the age of criminals to 12 years, nor is it in line with the recommendations of the UN Committee on Children's Rights to lower the age of criminals. So let's drop this chasing at kids. Of course, we must make a social effort towards those who have a little more gunpowder in their asses than others, those who may go straight to the border, those we estimate have a risk of ending up in crime or in other ways at the edge of society. But we must not give up on children. We must insist that they are the future, regardless of their past, and insist on their possibilities rather than restrictions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516192756	I'm gonna have to talk to you about something. The radical rapporteur should use a different word for his butt than that used. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516192807	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the rapporteur's speech. I have just one question which relates to something that was said at the end of the rapporteur's speech. According to this, it would be contrary to Denmark's international obligations, one had to understand if the criminal low age was lowered. I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur can confirm that there are some 20 countries in the European Union which have a lower criminal age than we have in Denmark. So I'd like to know if we're gonna get out there like this and send out bulls against these countries that dare to take a different approach to this issue than we do in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516192840	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516192842	First of all, I do not think there is any reason to participate in any race to the buttom when it comes to the question of just this. Secondly, what I said was that it was not in line with the recommendations of the UN Committee on Children's Rights. As far as I know, there is at least quite a difference between what is a recommendation and what is our legal obligations. So that is why, unfortunately, some countries have just chosen to have a lower criminal age than we have in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516192914	Then I would like to thank the radical rapporteur. The next speaker is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen as rapporteur for the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516192933	We have the most law-abiding generation of youths ever. This should not always be believed when you hear the debate, but young people are law-abiding, non-criminal and behave to a degree that we have never seen before. It's not just something I'm saying, it's facts. When a former government, that is, the VK government, decided to reduce the age of criminals from 15 to 14 years, it was quite opposed to all professional knowledge, but it was something that was wanted to do. When we got into government, S, SF and Radicals, and changed it again to 15 years, what happened then? Was there an explosion in crime among the 14-year-olds because they could suddenly break loose with no consequences? No, the trend continued to decline, the figures in crime statistics fell among young people. That is really, really positive, and it also shows that the path we are already going is the path we must continue to take. When the vast majority of young people are not criminals, either when it comes to the mild areas such as petty rapes or the harsher things, we know that we are still left with a small group of criminals. Is the solution then to criminalize them down to 12 years? We do not think so in any way. After all, it was not the case that the very, very small group that is there and which commit serious crime suddenly disappeared when the government changed the criminal low age to 14 years. These are quite different tools that need to be used. There is actually very much evidence of what works and what doesn't work. But it is a rather clever, quick phrase to be able to deliver to the media, namely that now we want to ensure that we never again have juvenile delinquency in Denmark, and therefore we put the criminal low age down to 12 years, because then juvenile delinquency probably disappears as dew for the sun. That is why we cannot support that part of the bill. However, as some of my fellow Members have said, I would like to pay tribute to the second part, which deals with reconstructing justice. This is not something that DF has come up with, but much praise to DF for being inspired by the work on restorative justice, which very much research shows works. Well, you've been out painting graffiti somewhere where you can't be, you have to remove it yourself again, and it may not be so funny if your buddies are watching; or there may be many other ways to do it. It works to such an extent, and it also works to a greater extent than getting a fine that you cannot pay or that the parents then pay. It was one of the measures that was once called left-wing and hippie-like and soft and sweet soup and circle and everything. But it works, and I would like to thank the DF for including it in this motion for a resolution. In addition to that, there are other things that work, and one might hope that the government will also take part in its initiative. One of the things we from the SF want so much is that we go ahead with what the former SF-R government also had to focus on, namely this conflict council, also among young people, and also that there is a focus on young people having something to do. Now it's not an excuse for serious crime, but some of these little raps and other things are simply based on bored ass out of their pants. It is not to apologize, but it is just to say that some of what is really, really important is that there are activities, that there are leisure jobs, that there is something to make healthy interests, which I almost think our Conservative Minister of Justice would call it, that is to have something to do. I grew up in a place like this with 10 concrete blocks. It wasn't very inspiring, and there were a lot of these types that were burning up containers and everything else, and they were so bored. It is not an excuse, but some very simple things made a difference, for example. Bent from Block 8 made a boxing club down in the basement, so the kids had a place to go, etc. It's just to say that there are alternatives. It takes more than 5 seconds in the news to say that's what works, but that's it. So an appeal to DF: if you divide up the resolution, we would like to support that part of what works, that is to say, for restoring justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516193520	There are brief comments. The first question is Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516193524	Now Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen herself mentioned something about the fact that after returning the age of criminals to 15 years under the government of which the SF was a part, the figures could be seen, according to the rapporteur, that there was indeed a decrease in crime among young people and so on. That's fine, of course. But if it is to be used in a context to defend that you do not want to lower the criminal low age, as we propose, is the point that if the rate of crime increases in young people, then will the SF support that we lower the criminal low age for that reason? Because if we use the argument that the amended legislation has led to a fall in crime, we must also be able to use it in reverse to say that if crime is increasing, we need to impose more sanctions on the young people concerned.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516193620	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516193620-2	I think, sir. His Kristian Skibby misunderstood me. Otherwise, I did not say it very clearly, it is also likely. What I said was that the fall we have seen in juvenile delinquency has been consistent over a long period of time, even though the government has reduced the former, former, former government to 14 years, when we then set it up again. It was just to illustrate. Because we almost hear that there are no consequences in committing crime if you are under the age of criminals, and there we just say that when the criminal low age was set up to 15 years again, it was not the case that crime exploded among the 14-year-olds because they said: Wow, now we can do a lot of crime without consequences. No, development has meant that we see less and less crime among young people. That's what I meant.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516193721	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516193722	Now the rapporteur also mentioned that young people are bored and that should not be an excuse, I know that the rapporteur also said so. Anyway, my God, these kids are bored. But I think that perhaps we should also reflect on how much the municipalities actually do. I hope the rapporteur and the SF are aware of this. So there is a lot of money spent on street planners and youth clubs, and leisure jobs there are also many, at least in large parts of the country. So there's that possibility. I think it might have been used like that as a plausible excuse. But then the rapporteur also says about this graffiti thing that it has to be removed by the young person. Then I'd like to hear what SF's position is if the young people refuse to remove the graffiti if the young people say: "You can do that somewhere, we simply don't want to do that, so you can find someone else to remove the graffiti." What does SF think should be the appropriate sanction against them?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516193811	Now it was just before we were back there. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516193815	It sounds as if the rapporteur disagrees with what the rapporteur's own motion for a resolution says. There is restorative justice based on a principle of voluntaryness. The alternative, as it may be today, is that sometimes fines are sent. It could be the parents who pay it. Maybe they can't pay it. It may be that they are sensible and make a payment with the young person or whatever it may be. I really think that this is a very good proposal that DF has and I agree with it. All research also shows that it is very effective. It seems more than a fine that you may not be able to pay as a young person anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516193901	The next question is Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516193903	There are many things I would really like to ask the rapporteur. But I'm gonna plunge into the most obvious, and that's the answer to Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, whom I think the rapporteur still owes answers. For Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby asked very nicely what to do when what is like the mild punishment doesn't work where they say: You made graffiti, so now you have to wash it off. That may be fine, because there may be some who would like to wash off the graffiti, and then it's super. But what do you say in such a system to the young person who says: I don't want to touch that at all? So what's the next step? Then the rapporteur mentioned fines, but perhaps some fines are not being paid. Well, what, like, should be the possibility of getting justice? It is a good thing that there is a mild system for those who want to. We fully support that. But there must also be some tools and tools for those who do not want to cross their arms and say: I don't want to do that. What do we do with them, rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516193956	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516193957	I think that the reason why I may look a little confused is that I now hear two DF rapporteurs arguing against their own proposal. DF has itself proposed restoring justice as a very good tool, and I agree with that. And then the rapporteur asks what to do if the young person does not want to. Today it is already the case that there are consequences of all kinds of vandalism if you destroy something, crush a window. Fines are being sent. In the case of more serious cases, other sanctions will be imposed. So I might as well send the question back. What DF is proposing must be done within this so-called youth court. But what if the young man refuses to do so? So you're gonna throw the 12-year-old in jail? You keep saying they're not going to jail.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516194055	The questioner, even though he hasn't pressed his mind, has one more question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516194056	Thank you. Again, there is no answer to the very specific question that Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby and I have asked. I think that is perfectly reasonable. In other words, we support what is contained in our own proposal in relation to the possibilities that exist for using the mild tools in the toolbox as well. It is a good thing, and it will probably work in very many cases. What we then just ask is what is the recipe, according to the Socialist People's Party, for the young people who say: we do not want to do that; we do not want to do that. It can certainly work against a great many people, and then we support it, but there will also be a group which will not want anything at all, which will not cooperate and in which we therefore need to have sanctions against them if they commit serious crime. Does the Socialist People's Party not agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516194141	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516194143	It may be that I am just really slow to perceive, but I do not understand why we should spend so much time discussing something that the Danish People's Party itself is proposing, something that is part of their proposal. So, the Danish People's Party proposes to use restorative justice, and we believe that SF is a good idea, so I commend and accept that. It is already the case today that there are a large number of sanctions against the young person even if the young person is under the age of criminals and sometimes the parents of the young person, and there will be in the future too.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516194217	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. The next in line is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr President. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516194239	About two years ago, the party chairmen of the four then opposition parties wrote a common chronicle in Berlingske. In the cliché they outlined the framework for a new model that, in the past and with greater focus on clear consequences, should help to put even better emphasis on juvenile delinquency. Here, at least, the clear impression was given that when the chroniclers were given power, as they had observed, they would reduce the criminal low age and set up juvenile courts. That majority is now a reality. Blue block, the so-called blue block, won the election. A resolution was also tabled on which the four then and present party leaders in the blue bloc had agreed. The substance of the motion for a resolution is essentially what we are discussing, namely the reduction of the age of criminals and the establishment of youth courts. Now we are almost two years into the new parliamentary term, two years in which the so-called blue bloc has had a majority, and there is still no real news on this very important issue, which was a must for the blue before the elections and must therefore also be for them now. That is a pity, and that is why we in the Danish People's Party have taken the baton, which is why we are today debating this motion for a resolution. The system we have today needs changes. We need a whole system that embraces young people, some of them very young people, who have had a crooked start in life, a life that leads to crime from the beginning of life. This can be due to many things: bad friends, a family that cares nothing about them, yes, many things. But what must not go wrong is the opportunity that we must offer to the young person. For all young people must have a good and fair chance in life. We owe them that, but equally we owe it to the victims it will suffer if and when young people commit crime. Today we maintain a very square limit, the so-called criminal low age of 15 years, with one system for them under 15 years and another system for them above, one type of sanctions for them under and another for them over. That is why we have rethinked that system. Why not have a system for all young people specialising in young people, their opportunities and their needs; a system that will also increase legal certainty for young people; a system that can take action on several different fronts to help young people out of crime before they grow into it? For nothing is more sad than wasted life. That is why we in the Danish People's Party believe the same as we did at the time of 2014 when we discussed the previous motion for a resolution. Many things have been said and written about the proposal. To put it bluntly, many wrong and misleading things have been said about our proposal. I assume that it is conscious and in the absence of better arguments, but now allow me to address a few of them so that we can hopefully avoid spending time on them in the further debate. It is regularly said that with the proposal here we will put children in prison. To that I can just say: No, children are not going to jail, of course. Children and young people must have a maximum of secure institutions with educational staff, and the motion for a resolution here does not change anything about that. It is said that it is all about punishment, but it is not a punishment that we are taking care of a biased development. On the contrary, it helps. For me it's about a lot of things; it's about a lot of things. to have the right sanction against a particular behaviour. By creating a system in which young people, who for the first time cross the line, are directed by • and this can happen with further sanctions • then we avoid both victims later on and that the person later in life becomes hardened criminal. So no, it's not about punishment. It's about making the toolbox bigger, it's about solving the problems that are. Then there is the claim that we will brand very young people with a criminal record. And with regard to the word brand, I would like to thank Mrs Trine Bramsen in particular for that language flower. But no, instead of making an actual criminal record, Dansk Folkeparti proposes a youth certificate so that young people can seek a relevant job if it is compatible with the sanction they have been given. In order to increase motivation, the content of the certificate can be deleted if the young person demonstrates a real ability to act, a desire to go a clearly more viable way in life. Finally, there is the claim that young people cannot understand consequences. With this approach, we are talking down directly to young people, because of course young people understand the consequences. There's just so many options in this field. There's a huge potential to change this system, so I think we should get started on it, preferably as soon as possible. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516194810	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516194814	Thank you. I could not help but notice that the rapporteur did not think it was a punishment, but that it was a help to incarcerate children, because that is really what you do when you put them in institutions or in prison and make sure they can't go anywhere. Then it's detention no matter what. Does the rapporteur think there is any scientific evidence to support this? Can the rapporteur think of anything that provides scientific evidence that children are getting better or that there is a lower relapse rate or something else?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516194847	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516194848	Even to this day, very young people can come to sheltered institutions where there are educators, so in fact I do not quite understand this frustration that some people are going to be taken care of who are on a completely wrong track and where there are victims on the sidelines who are deeply frustrated and who may have been damaged by this behaviour. At all events, I do not understand this discussion that arises forever and ever every time we discuss this subject and where people claim that some people want to put children in prison. We never wanted that, nor will it be the policy of the Danish People's Party, so I really do not understand why we continue to derail this debate with these allegations.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516194937	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516194938	I do not really think it is derailing the debate to ask whether there is scientific evidence that children are better off, that there is a reduced relapse if children are detained, as they do by putting them in a social institution where they cannot get out when they want. So I would like to give the rapporteur one more chance to answer whether there is evidence and scientific evidence that children will not get back into crime or that they will get better as a whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516195012	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516195013	There is at least one thing that is absolutely certain, and that is that if you do not intervene against children and young people who are already involved in crime and who have experience in committing crime, their opportunities in life are at least quite limited, and the risk of seriously becoming involved in crime is very high. Then it takes a few years, and then you don't go to some youth institution, where it's educators who try to straighten you out, then you go to jail. In fact, I think that we have an obligation to ensure that even more young people are brought up in the future, so that fewer of them go to prison as adults.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516195047	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516195101	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 18 May 2017. Then I give the floor to Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen for reasons. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516195128	Thank you. We in the Danish People's Party have called for this question debate, as we have recently seen several examples that completely legitimate demonstrations have been met by illegal counter-demonstrations, where several of the protesters in the counter-demonstrations have had, let me say incredibly difficult to behave properly. There have been several examples of violence, vandalism and the like being committed. The police have had to move out in very large numbers to protect and defend the legally announced demonstration from these left-wing troublemakers who have not been able to behave properly. In Denmark, there must and must never be any doubt that we must guard our freedom to meet. We want to defend it at all costs, and precisely freedom here is under pressure. That's why we called this request. We look forward to hearing from the various parties, and not least from the government, how we can tackle the challenges we have here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516195226	Thank you for the explanatory statement. Then I give the floor to the Minister of Justice for answers.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516195235	Thank you. At any rate, I would like to begin by stating that I strongly reject persons or groups who are trying to promote their positions by violent means or other forms of criminal activity. This also applies, of course, if those concerned try to prevent others from exercising their right to demonstrate or express themselves peacefully. Unfortunately, the unrest we saw during the 10th anniversary of the clearing of the former youth house at Jagtvej was a sad reminder that there are people in Denmark who are prepared to use violent means to advance their own political agenda. It makes me sad, and it makes me angry. I can guarantee that this government will do everything in its power to combat violent extremism, whether it is manifesting itself on the political left or on the right. Before going into the government's initiatives in this area, I would like briefly to explain the police and PET's action against violent demonstrators and violent extremism. In this context, I would also like to refer to the police's efforts in connection with the 10th anniversary of the clearing of the former youth house. The National Police have reported that a police operation generally includes three main phases: a planning phase, a phase of action and an evaluation phase. The planning phase is a description of all preparatory actions undertaken prior to events known to the police. At this stage, intelligence is being collected, analysed and a threat assessment is being carried out. At the same time, strategic objectives will be set for action. The necessary resources are requested and cooperation is established with external stakeholders and, where possible, a dialogue with e.g. well-known demonstration leaders. Precisely an initial dialogue with demonstration leaders is essential, because the police have a duty to protect the right of citizens to gather together. This is also the reason why demonstrations must be reported to the police so that the police have the opportunity to redirect the movement and so that any counter-demonstration can ensure that both groups can exercise their right to freedom of assembly and freedom of expression. After the planning phase comes the action phase, which includes the actual police action. Every effort is based on the fact that the police must use as little physical force as possible in their efforts. In relation to demonstrations considered to be a threat to public peace, the police can use a number of means of both physical and non-physical nature. It depends on the actual situation, which means are being used. There can be, among other things: be mandatory, individual arrests or dissolution of the demonstration. To manage the effort, an effort management is established, including: present at street level. During the evaluation phase, the police look at learning points from concrete police action. The purpose of the evaluation phase is to continuously improve police action in similar situations. In connection with the 10th anniversary of the clearance of the former youth house at Jagtvej on 1 March 2017, the Copenhagen Police have informed that the police received a notification of the demonstration in January 2017. The notifier indicated that it was expected that approx. 260 people would participate in a demonstration on the occasion of the 10th anniversary and that tabs and a speaker car would be used. The Copenhagen Police had already begun planning their action one month before receiving the notification on the basis of a clear expectation that a demonstration would be held during the 10th anniversary of the grubbing-up. It was the police and PET's assessment that 300-400 participants could be expected in the demonstration. During the days prior to the demonstration, the head of effort at Copenhagen Police was in dialogue with the protest manager and had agreed in this connection that the demonstration should take its starting point from Mrs. Plads instead of Gammel Torv as a result of extensive road work on the site. The Copenhagen Police took the view that the dialogue was good and constructive, which supported the overall intelligence picture and the expectation that the demonstration would take place in good order. On the day of the demonstration there was an ongoing influx of participants for the demonstration. About 2:00 a.m. 17.00 the number of participants up to 800-900 was therefore significantly more than the number reported and significantly more than the police had estimated. Many of the participants were families who brought prams and bicycles. At the beginning of the demonstration there was a small group of approx. 20 masked people who took the lead in the demonstration procession. They threw bottles in the direction of police traffic officers who were responsible for directing the demonstration through traffic. The demonstration then continued along the planned route, and shortly before Queen Louise's Bridge, bottles and stones were thrown again against the police. In view of the escalating unrest and the number of demonstrators, the Copenhagen Police decided to step up their efforts, including: by requesting additional resources from the National Police Department. The demonstration then continued on Nørrebrogade, where the riots developed further, with vandalism being carried out against several banks and ATMs. The police chief was continuously in dialogue with the protest leader, who said that he could not control the many troublemakers. At this time the Copenhagen Police estimated that at least 200 of the participants were involved in the serious disturbances of public order. When the widespread riots came out of the demonstration and it was considered to be a danger to public peace, the assembly was disbanded. The formal catch form used for the dissolution of an assembly was communicated to protesters several times via loudspeaker cars and megaphones. When the assembly was dissolved, several of the peaceful participants left the demonstration, whereas the masked protesters moved to the site at Hungtvej 69, where they lit fires and built barricades. By this time the police were very numerous. In order to stop the continuing escalating riots, protestors were pushed out on Nørrebrogade and followed to the Youth House on Dortheavej. A few arrests were made along the way. On arrival at Dortheavej, many of the protestors entered the Youth House and several went outside. The protesters in the youth house were masked, aggressive, and agitated and threw various kinds of shooters against the police, including bottles, stones, pétanque balls, paint bombs, spears and other forms of made weapons. In order to stop the riots and to ensure the possibility of prosecuting the perpetrators, the Copenhagen Police decided to search the Youth House and register the persons present. During the planning of the action, the demonstrators chose voluntarily to leave the Youth House, presumably as a result of the police's continued dialogue with the protest leader. In this connection, the protesters were registered and expelled. On the ground, it was not possible to link certain demonstrators to criminal offences. The Copenhagen Police then searched the youth house and found caste shooters, painting bombs, pétanque bullets, a prepared spear, cobblestone, etc. The police were subsequently massively present in Copenhagen the evening and the night, and no further unrest or disorder was detected. As part of the effort, seven people were arrested and two minors were detained. I would like to pay tribute to the police for their efforts on that day. What we witnessed in connection with the riots of 1 March was a professional police who handled a difficult situation excellent and exemplary. I have also noted that the police have recently announced that they will target a large number of people in the wake of the riots. Now we have to see how the specific cases are proceeding. However, I would say that the respect package of last year for me was a clear signal from the government that there must be respect for our police and other public servants. The package includes: a punishment for all forms of violence and threats to the police in the context of riots, as well as a new increase in liability. From police action against violent demonstrators, I would like to go on to say something about the task of police intelligence, because it is and must be a central task for PET to monitor and to try to prevent extremists on the extreme right or left, for example, from using extreme or undemocratic methods. This is particularly true if extremists, with violence or other criminal offences, try to prevent the right of other persons to make their views known. Unfortunately, according to PET, there are political extremist environments in Denmark that are prepared to use violence to highlight their own agenda. The extremist violence is being corrected, among other things. against political opponents as well as organisations and companies that are given symbolic value. In this context, PET is paying close attention to, inter alia: the left-wing extremist environment in Denmark. This is obviously the case when the environment organises counter-demonstrations against, for example, For Freedom demonstrations. PET also cooperates closely with the other police in order to protect citizens' right to assemble. And it is a task that is taken very seriously. What, then, are we doing from a political point of view to prevent and combat extremism? In Denmark, we have been focusing for many years on preventing and combating extremism in all forms, including violent left-wing extremism. Changing governments have since 2009 drawn up action plans that provide the authorities with the best possible conditions for preventing and combating extremism. No later than October last year, the previous government published a new action plan, including: will give PET a better opportunity to get a clear picture of how extremist propaganda on the Internet and social media can contribute to radicalisation and recruitment. With the measure, PET gets better tools to understand what affects young people to be recruited into extremist or radicalised environments. With that knowledge base it will be easier for the police and PET to close the taps to the extremist environments. We must safeguard freedom of expression and assembly as fundamental values in our society, but there are, of course, limits on how to behave, even when you are part of an assembly. What we saw on the 10th anniversary of the grubbing-up of the former youth house was an example of an entirely unacceptable overrun of all the limits of freedom of assembly that apply to all of us. As Minister of Justice, it makes me sad to see such behavior, and it makes me angry. We should never accept such behavior. We're gonna get rid of that. Significant efforts are already being made by the police and PET to combat violent extremist environments, and from the political point of view we have launched an action plan that will give PET better tools in the fight against extremism and radicalisation. I am very pleased with the efforts being made today, but if there is a need to intensify the efforts of the authorities in this area, I am, of course, prepared to discuss it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516200400	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. We shall now proceed to the debate itself, and the first is the rapporteur for the questions put to us, Mr President. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516200427	Thank you. Our starting point in this debate is that we all have a series of different rights. Here is the right to assemble and meet peacefully quite basically. There should be no doubt about that. That's gotta be it. No matter where and when you have the opportunity to demonstrate as long as it is peaceful and as long as the demonstration is legal. Whoever then demonstrates and what they think must be irrelevant as long as they just behave. If you cannot find a way to behave properly, cannot live up to the confidence that society, all of us, has, of course, shown, the authorities must intervene. In recent times we have seen, I think, a number of examples of completely legalized demonstrations being met by violent counter-demonstrations. As long as everything is legal, nothing should cause any problems. I believe that people are allowed to disagree and share their views, peace be with it. However, what has remained has been a picture that legally announced demonstrations have been threatened by fanatics from the extreme left. These left-wing activists have acted violently, threateningly and harassingly against these legitimate demonstrations. In this country we have a major problem with an autonomous group on the extreme political left. They deny the right of others to assemble freely and peacefully. They're fighting with law enforcement. They create great insecurity when their actions degenerate into mere violence and harassment. It has to be stopped. I don't care if it's the right-wing or the left-wing who is harassing and violent, because no matter who threatens our freedom, they must, of course, have the fight to the line. It is just my observation that it is very often the extreme left, and therefore it is also natural that it is here that we should take action. We can take action to consider whether some of these organisations can be completely banned, as they have a major element of violence in them. We must put the chair at their door in relation to their use of municipal properties, and we must carefully examine what sources of funding they have and which keep them alive. All in all, there are a lot of handles we can get to grips with here. Finally, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party, the Left, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives, I should like to propose the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament takes the clearest distance from the fact that political groups use violence, vandalism or other criminal means to promote their messages. The Folketing considers that fair and fair demonstrations must be possible in peace and harmony and that extremist groups which do not follow democratic rules must not be allowed to set the agenda. Parliament therefore expects the police to take consistent action against protesters who do not conform to the rules. The Danish Parliament therefore attaches crucial importance to the ongoing focus of PET and the police on the violent extremist environments and that the municipalities constantly ensure that the possibilities of cutting off public support to such groups as the Danish Parliament adopted in December 2016 are applied consistently. The Danish Parliament will follow developments and will take a position on the need for new initiatives in this area. • V 106).
ParlaMint-DK_20170516200819	Thank you, and the proposal for adoption will then be included in the further debate. I would like to thank the rapporteur for the authors. The next is Mrs Trine Bramsen as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516200829	Any form of violent extremism is harmful to our country. Violent extremism runs counter to the fundamental democratic values on which our society is based, and therefore it is crucial that our authorities keep a close eye on developments in both left-wing and right-wing extremist environments. The currency we trade in in the Danish political system must be arguments, not violence, not threats, not hoaxing or harassing. Under no circumstances should this be tolerated when young people on the left smash entire streets as part of their political markings. That was also the reason why last year we chose to tighten up legislation so that young people can now be blamed for the devastation they are contributing to when they are part of a violent manifestation. According to PET, the status right now is that they consider that there is a limited terrorist threat from persons or groups in or identifying with attitudes in political extremist environments. But that does not change the fact that it is vital for us Social Democrats that our intelligence services pay attention to political extremist environments in Denmark, where there may be a willingness to use violence to advance the political agenda. Because it can go fast, even smaller groupings can create great insecurity in a very short time. During our most recent period of government, we launched both action plans and mapping out the political extremist environments, and it is therefore crucial that we continually follow up these initiatives so that we know both the threat, but also have a common political understanding of the efforts against political extremism. Finally, I would like to say that here in the Folketing we also have a responsibility to combat violent political extremism, both on the right and on the left. When we are debating, we must do so with respect for each other, with respect for each other's opinions and with an understanding that we shall solve the problems of society, but do not call for conflicts at all. And with our mandates here in the Folketing, we have a duty to take the lead in this. I have to say that we agree with the proposal for adoption which has been read out.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516201053	I would like to thank the rapporteur, and the next one is Mr Seligman. Preben Bang Henriksen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516201059	Thank you. I speak as rapporteur on the Left, but I must also say that, like the two previous cases, I am also speaking on behalf of the Conservative People's Party rapporteur, Naser Khader. It's hard for a small party to be everywhere at Christiansborg. The subject of the question debate we have is: what will the government do to combat violent left-wing extremism, as seen, for example. in the context of legal premonitions? And I can say that the Minister for Justice has already given a long one, I was almost making a statement on the status, and I agree with every word. So it hardly serves any purpose for me to start repeating it. I fully agree with the Minister of Justice in his assessment. We must strongly condemn the use of violence by political groups. This is totally unacceptable. And I'm gonna stress here because you could get a different impression by reading the query text that I'm not just talking about left-wing extremists. I am also talking about right-wing extremists and, for that matter, anyone else who has the urge to demonstrate. We cannot accept the inclusion of violence in those demonstrations. We expect the police to have full control or, at least, to take consistent action against protesters who do not conform to the rules. That is also what the text of the adoption says. I am pleased to say that my impression is that both the PET and the police are doing what they can to prepare for demonstrations and that they are doing what they can when the demonstrations are under way to keep them at as low a level of violence as possible. As you know, a year ago, in the context of the so-called'respect package', we have also taken action against demonstrators, not demonstrators, but those who continue a demonstration so that it becomes riots. But there is no responsibility for ordinary peaceful demonstrators, I must say hurry. But if you choose to go through the street and smash the shops, then you have a responsibility, if you are the leader of such riots, and also a responsibility for what other people live on that occasion. So, on this basis, I can say on behalf of the Left that we can endorse the text of the adoption which has already been read out.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516201336	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Next in line, sir. Rune Lund as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516201350	We live in a democracy, and when we live in a democracy, the rules of the game are that we respect each other's opinions, that we have to debate them and that we have to meet and argue with our arguments, not with other things, not with trouble and not with violence. That is why it is also the case that everyone should, of course, be allowed to gather and express their views, whether it is at a meeting, it is at a demonstration, or it is in a different context, in which one wants to make use of one's fundamental freedoms, regardless of whether this is the freedom of assembly, freedom of expression or another fundamental freedom that we have, both as a result of our constitution, but also as a result of the European Convention on Human Rights. That is why, of course, it must also be the case that it is not acceptable for someone to go in and prevent other people from expressing their views in an undemocratic way. That does not mean that all demonstrations are illegal. That does not mean that we should not do a counter-demonstration, because we must do so. But it must of course take place within the framework of the law, and it must be done according to the rules of democracy. Of course you can have a flute with you, and you can express yourself, you must have banners with you, but of course you should not go into undemocratic ways and prevent some other people from expressing their opinions and opinions and destroying their arrangement. We see this as an undemocratic way of acting on the part of the Enhedslisten. I myself have been involved in organising many demonstrations, and I am certainly quite sure that I am one of those present in the Chamber who has organized the most demonstrations. And it is also important to say in this context that demonstrations are nothing dangerous. On 1 May there will be plenty of demonstrations and I will take my children to demonstrations. I really like to go to the demonstration and express what I mean and feel, and have among other things. There have also been many demonstrations in which we have demonstrated against the many wars in which Denmark has unfortunately been involved in the past, both the Iraq War and the Afghanistan War. And it has always been very peaceful. There has been music, and you have been able to buy soda and get a piece of cake and a hot cup of coffee. It's been really good. Of course, there may also be situations in which things are evolving, and it is fortunately that we have a police task to ensure that the law is observed and that there is calm. I should say from SF, who cannot be present, that SF feels covered by the approach that I am expressing here, and then on behalf of Enhedslisten, Alternativet og SF I have to read out the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament distance itself from persons and groups who try to promote their opinions by violent means or prevent other persons from exercising their right to demonstrate or express themselves. The Danish Parliament stresses the importance of legally announced demonstrations being able to take place in peace and harmony. In this context, the authorities must take action against all forms of unrest and those involved must be held accountable for their actions. The Danish Parliament also stresses that unpredicted demonstrations are protected by the freedom of expression and assembly of the Constitution to the same extent as announced demonstrations. The Danish Parliament welcomes the fact that the police and PET are aware of political extremist environments in Denmark, which are ready to use violence to advance their agenda. The Danish Parliament stresses that freedom of expression and assembly are the core values of Danish democracy, which is constitutionally established. These freedoms shall be the property of any citizen under responsibility. Freedoms are not coloured and apply to all citizens, regardless of political convictions. • V 107).
ParlaMint-DK_20170516201812	Thank you, and the proposal for adoption will then be included in the further debate. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516201822	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I think there were some good elements in that too. What I want to ask the Enhedslisten's rapporteur is: now the Enhedslisten is the most left-wing party in the Parliamentary Chamber, and that is why it might be possible to imagine that some of the people on the extreme left whom I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech could be attracted, for example. to join the Enhedslisten. And then I'm just so innocently curious to know how to deal with that issue in the Enhedslisten. In other words, you exclude people who, for example: are actively involved in demonstrations or are violent in connection with demonstrations? Is it someone you like to say goodbye to, and where you say they have to find another place to be, or can you include them in the Enhedslisten?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516201907	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516201909	I actually think this is a strange way of asking questions. So, first of all, I think that everything I said in my rapporteur's speech was sensible. I find it hard to imagine that there really was something that Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen might disagree. In relation to the question one could also ask the opposite way: in many ways, the Danish People's Party is the most right-wing party in the Danish Parliament, and is there a lot of Nazis who are attracted to the Danish People's Party? As far as we are concerned, our policy is quite clear: the rules of democracy are the ones that apply, and that is what the party stands for. Could there then be individuals who, on election day, may choose to go down and vote on the Enhedslisten and who have a different position from the party's position on that point? Yeah, there may be. Can there be individuals who are members and who have a different opinion from the party on this point? Yes, there may be, but that doesn't change what Enhedslisten means on this point.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516202002	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516202005	I think the rapporteur takes it too close, because I am actually very open and we are very open about our approach to these things. If there are people who aren't supposed to be in the Danish People's Party, but who still stray inside, then we act actively on it and exclude them and say that they must find another place to be. This is how we enforce this problem, precisely because this debate is very much about extremes. Sometimes some people may be attracted to joining parties that are not part of the outer wings, and I just wanted to ask Enhedslisten's rapporteur about that. I am very open about how we deal with it in the Danish People's Party, and I really find it strange that Enhedslisten's rapporteur is not as open as I am.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516202044	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516202045	I don't know if I shouldn't be open. We have some exclusion rules which make it very difficult to exclude members of the Enhedslisten in general. There is a very high degree of what to say, protection in this respect, even if you have some very foolish attitudes in this context and have to think that violence is a way of promoting a cause. So even in the case where you have a very stupid attitude on that point, it will be a relatively difficult process to be excluded by Enhedslisten. It is a price of our statute, namely that it is difficult to exclude members, but it is some statutes that we have, because we have wanted it to be difficult to exclude members of the Enhedslisten for other democratic reasons.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516202136	The next question is Mrs Pernille Bendixen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516202139	Thank you. The rapporteur mentions in the proposal for adoption and I did not get the correct quote from it about disavowing violent groups. And I just have to ask: does the Enhedslisten distance itself from a violent group such as the AFA, that is, Antifascist Action? I'd like to hear that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516202157	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516202159	Yes, we do. We reject violent groupings such as Anti-fascist Action. We do not cooperate as a party with groups that use violence in their so-called political work.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516202212	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516202214	But is it so that Enhedslisten has previously had a collaboration with AFA?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516202221	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516202222	I do not recall that Enhedslisten should have had any cooperation with the AFA. I cannot think of a situation where this has been the case. No.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516202236	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There were no more questions. The next speaker is Mrs Christina Egelund as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516202245	Thank you. As far as violent extremism is concerned, I think that if you best promote or express your case by using violence, then you probably have a pretty bad case. Otherwise peaceful methods and words would be used. Fortunately, that is how it is in Denmark, and it is because we have an extensive degree of freedom of expression. For the sake of the Liberal Alliance, it must be extended even further, and I know this is a view that we share with the Danish People's Party, which has raised this question debate. But there is therefore a broad framework for striking a battle for a cause for which one had to burn in Denmark. We do not need to resort to violence and illegal practices if we want to criticise those in power or fight for rights in one direction or another. This is certainly not the case in all countries. Unfortunately, there are regimes, also close to Denmark, where dissidents are brutally defeated, monitored, imprisoned or otherwise prevented from expressing themselves. That is why we must also safeguard freedom of expression and assembly. Precisely because we in Denmark have the freedom to express ourselves and to demonstrate, even while the police are looking after us, it is so incredibly difficult to understand why some choose to resort to violence instead of just saying something, singing something or writing something. In fact, I think it is an insult to our very freedoms when extremists of one kind or another use violence as a form of expression, smash other people's things to be heard and are completely indifferent to the insecurity they create around them when they go crazy in the streets. That is why, of course, when this happens, the police will have to fight hard to maintain the legal order and order that most of us care about, and within what framework most of us are expressing the positions that we now have. Then I would like to say that the Liberal Alliance supports the proposal for adoption which was read out by Mr Seligman. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516202457	Thank you to the rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist as rapporteur for the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516202508	I always think I'm reminded of my height when I get up on this platform. Back to earnest. Freedom of expression and freedom of assembly are core values enshrined in the constitution, and these freedoms are the property of every citizen. Freedoms are not coloured, they are for everyone, regardless of political convictions, and it is one of the prime tasks of the police to ensure that citizens can exercise these freedoms in security and security. It is also the task of PET to ensure that political extremist environments in Denmark, which are prepared to use violence in order to advance their agenda, do not undermine our social structure, both right-wing, left-wing and middle-wing extremists. Legally announced demonstrations must, of course, be conducted so that demonstrators can get their message out and the demonstration carried out, and we hear from the police that this is the case. We do not think it is a problem in itself that counter-demonstrations take place; it is a pretext for one's freedom of expression and of assembly that one can meet with courage and demonstrations. No one is entitled to have a speech standing in opposition or to demonstrate without counter-demonstrations. Of course, this does not legitimise violence, regardless of political disagreement and opposition, and I do believe that the police are doing an excellent job, on the one hand, in ensuring that pre-emptive demonstrations are conducted safely and safely, but also that counter-demonstrations, alerted or not, are carried out without the message of the first demonstration being overkilled and the purpose of the demonstration thereby being undermined. We are very concerned that anyone would want a government to intervene in the freedom of expression and assembly by taking action against left-wing extremism in the context of premonitions. It is for us to see a police task to assess whether a given counter-demonstration should be dissolved or individuals arrested. I don't want the government to interfere in that. The police state that failure to comply with the obligation to notify, which applies to demonstrations, does not in itself make a demonstration illegal; it is the specific conditions on the ground on which the police decide those cases. In conclusion, I should like to call on the police to be responsible for the police in the first place in connection with demonstrations and then to have the prosecution assess whether there is a basis for breaking up an association or not. It is no use that Christiansborg will fight various extremist left-wing or right-wing extremism, depending on which political creed we subscribe to. The police and prosecutors have the necessary tools to intervene against it, and that is whatever political color.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516202817	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is Mr. Kristian Hegaard as rapporteur for the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516202836	Thank you. The Danish People's Party has here initiated a question to the government about what it will do to combat violent left-wing extremism in connection with legally announced demonstrations. It is probably a little bit to kick in an open door, and it is also very clear from the debate that no one is in any way opposed to violence in the context of counter-demonstrations or any other kind of such thing. We have full confidence that the police are fighting all forms of violence in the Danish country, the Danish society, and the Minister has very clearly set out the examples of good police work, both when it comes to confrontations between demonstrators and counter-demonstrators, but also violent behaviour in general in all its forms from simple violence in section 244 of the Criminal Code to the clearly harsher provisions of violence covered by sections 245 and 246. In this context, we would very much like to see in the Radical Left the priority given to proper police work in connection with such a thing, rather than spending a lot of resources to check out innocent Mr. and Mrs Jensen's red beet passports at the southern border. At the moment, there is a majority which apparently thinks that is the most important thing. For the Radical Left, it is quite clear: we are defending freedom of expression, we are defending freedom of assembly, both when it comes to demonstrations and counter-demonstrations, and we are openly opposed to some kind of extremist grouping and some sort of violent behaviour. So it doesn't matter who does it and what kind of violence it is about. It's something we disapprove of no matter what. That is why we were perhaps a little disappointed that the question itself has been formulated with a very one-sided focus on violent left-wing extremism, because one can then get the impression that the questioners see no problems with right-wing extremism or do not see that there has been any violent behaviour by right-wing extremists. It is therefore very gratifying to note that both texts of the texts read out show a clear opposition to violent behaviour by left-wing extremists as well as right-wing extremists. For that must be the message from the debate here, that is, that all extremists and all violent behaviour are deeply unacceptable.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516203138	Thank you, sir. Kristian Hegaard. I do not see any more rapporteurs asking to speak, and that is why it is the Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516203151	Thank you. I will be very brief. I would like to welcome the clear and unequivocal positions expressed in this Chamber today and the clear opposition to extremism that we have heard from the platform. After all, in my reply I have explained quite thoroughly in the past that I hope for incidents and also the things that are being done, and I just want to make it clear that the government is aware of this area and that we must constantly ensure that extremism is combated, regardless of how it expresses itself. So I will say nothing more here, because I think the speeches have been quite clear and I hope I have given a very clear answer when I spoke earlier.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516203254	There are indications of this, for there are no brief comments. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. The vote on the proposals for adoption will take place only on Thursday 18 May 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516203308	The debate is open. Minister of Justice, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516203329	The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and its 17 World Goals, together with the COP 21 Global Climate Agreement in Paris, constitute the global vision for sustainable development in the world. It is the government's clear ambition that Denmark, both internationally and nationally, should help to realise this vision of sustainable development in the world. Therefore, the follow-up to the UN's global goals and the climate agreement are at the heart of the government's development policy and climate policy, and that is also why the government launched an action plan for Denmark's follow-up to the World Goals in March. On this point, we are fully in line with the proposers. Today, however, the key issue is the drafting of legislative proposals rather than the 17 objectives of the world. With the motion for a resolution, the proposers call on the government to introduce a system which will involve mandatory impact assessments of legislative proposals in order to clarify the positive or negative impact of the bill on the Danish contribution to the achievement of the UN World Sustainable Development Goals and the Paris Agreement's climate objectives. Today, it is the case that legislative proposals should include a review of, among other things. economic consequences as well as environmental and gender impact when they significantly affect a given area, and I welcome the proposers to inform them that the government has, in this way, already decided to go further. Earlier this year, the government launched an action plan for Denmark's follow-up to the UN's Global Sustainable Development Goal. As indicated in the action plan, the government wishes to see legislative proposals and other actions assessed in the future in relation to the UN's global sustainable development goals, as appropriate, and if the consequences of these matters are significant. The motion for a resolution we are debating today means that consequences for the sustainability objectives and climate consequences must always be mentioned in the individual legislative proposals, regardless of whether this is relevant and significant in relation to the specific legislative proposal. The Government does not believe that such assessments should be a separate mandatory point in the comments of the draft legislative proposals, which the motion for a resolution proposes, and in this respect it is important for me to give priority to the following: the guidance given by the Ministry of Justice on the quality of legislation contains rules that the general comments of the draft legislation should include some mandatory points on certain consequences of the draft law. The mandatory element is that the points must be included, even if the draft law does not have the actual consequences that the paragraph deals with. The existing mandatory items have been selected on the basis of an assessment of which issues are generally most relevant for the assessment of legislative proposals. This is a balancing exercise in order to ensure that the comments are thorough and complete in view of the fact that the comments should only refer to relevant issues. There are now nine mandatory points in the legislative notes. One of these points is the point of environmental impact, which includes both environmental and climate impact. In addition, the Guide on Quality of Law also states that, where appropriate, there may be grounds for explaining the consequences of a legislative proposal other than those set out in the mandatory paragraphs. It can, for example, be done. • the impact of the draft law on regional policy or on gender equality. Several of the objectives set for the UN's global goals will therefore already be covered by the points mentioned in the draft law. As regards the climate effects of a legislative proposal, there is a hang-up to such an assessment in the environmental impact assessment in the draft law. In addition, as mentioned earlier, the government has already decided to go further to follow up the achievement of the UN's global goals. Making the issue of impact on the sustainability objectives and climate targets mandatory will entail a new administrative burden for ministries. In addition, I would also point out that, from a purely legal point of view, it is a quality in itself that the comments on a legislative proposal are limited to a reference to the issues that are relevant in that context. In fact, this restriction helps to ensure that the issues relevant to be taken into account in the legislative proposal in question are kept in focus. In this regard, I also note that no matter how important it is to be described if a legislative proposal has implications for Denmark's achievement of the United Nations World Goals and the Paris Agreement's climate objectives, it will be far from all the proposals we are dealing with in this Chamber that actually have such consequences. If a new mandatory paragraph is introduced, which deals only with the impact of the bill on the United Nations World Goals and the climate objectives of the Paris Agreement, it will raise questions as to which other cross-cutting issues should also be included as separate points in the comments to a legislative proposal. The inclusion of a new separate compulsory item could, in time, have the unintended effect of losing the clarity which the fixed points would have to contribute to creating. The government does not want to contribute to this. Against this background, the Government cannot support the motion for a resolution to introduce a new mandatory paragraph.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516203918	There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Rasmus Nordqvist. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516203923	Thank you. When we look at the international agreements we have reached on the 17 world objectives and the Paris agreement on climate change, we see a timetable that also makes us very busy. And that is why the agreements signed by our Prime Minister should be very much on the agenda in relation to the fact that we are just living up to them. I also saw the action plan and would like to sign that something was then added to it in relation to the world goals, but there is a good enough rubber band in that description of when to assess it here. I think there is much more to see, for example. the German way of looking at it, where it is really taken seriously to have to assess sustainability. But now the minister mentions the environmental impact here that you are looking at that it also applies to climate. Does this mean that the way in which we look at the environmental impact is already up against the clear and clear objectives of the Paris Agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516204030	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516204032	Environmental impact assessment involves an assessment, yes, of the environmental impact of a legislative proposal on health, safety, flora, fauna, soil, water, air, climate, landscape, resources, waste, buildings and cultural heritage. That is up to it. It is not up to specific agreements. I think we can quickly have a challenge in this discussion, because on the one hand, it can quickly be about the content of the 17 world objectives and the climate agreement, so what do we want with it? And I do not think it will be for the benefit of anything or anyone that we are doing it even more administratively trouble than it is today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516204124	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516204126	Well, when we talk about law-quality work, it's also about what the consequences are of a law. And now that we have signed some international agreements, I suppose that consequence should also be read into it. That is the quality we can expect, that is to say that we are holding it against: we have a goal here and how do we live up to it? I guess that's the quality work. Or how else will the Minister see that one can continually incorporate into the legislation, that we keep an eye on the fact that we are not going against the Paris Agreement's idea that backsliding should not be done? I do not know what the term is called in Danish. But how will you live up to it, for example? the quality work?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516204205	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516204207	There I am of the opinion that this is a question of • and there I come a little outside of what else I deal with on a daily basis that the responsibility for the objectives of the world is that we are making some political plans for, some political agreements for, which must be taken into account in the work we are doing. I feel that this proposal here will, of course, mean a mandatory approach to looking at these issues as well, in other words, at the time of the adoption of the biker gang package, we should have had it included, and that is something we can then discuss. However, it is in this way in relation to the quality of legislation that we think it is too far-reaching.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516204248	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516204251	Thank you. I think the answers at first reveal that this is left-handed work by the government, and I am very, very sorry about that. I heard the Prime Minister's speech at the United Nations when we adopted the 17 world goals. I was lucky enough to be here all weekend. After all, he said what many other political leaders have said, namely that this is very far-reaching and that it requires a great deal of effort from the whole world at once and not only from the poorest countries. Mogens Lykketoft, President of the General Assembly, said that this is a revolutionary goal that it is not only revolutionary. How does the Minister intend to achieve such far-reaching objectives if we do not systematically, every time we decide something, consider whether we are going the right way or going the wrong way? Does the Minister believe that the 17 world goals can be achieved in 15 years?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516204349	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516204351	I am dealing with how we make the best legislation, and I am quite sure that this will be done through the implementation of the action plan that the government has put in place, which will then have to be implemented. A concrete model is currently being worked on, which the government expects to present after the summer holidays, on how to incorporate in the legislative proposals impact assessments for the global objectives. I think it's more important that we try to focus on those places where it's relevant to use this, and not just say it's another point out of the points we're browsing, every time we make a bill, no matter what the bill is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516204433	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516204437	It is not a matter of taking a small step in our every move, every time we meet a place where we can do better to deal with the world's problems. I think that is two more points. But the quality assurance of our legislative proposal came at a time when some bureaucrats also said: this is too much trouble, why should we now have such things in, and we can do that in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy or in some other places. That's the way it is every time. There I think the government should be at the forefront and say that we are now moving it in the right direction, instead of excused by the fact that it is bureaucratic, problematic and so on. In e.g. This package, which the Minister mentioned, will just say: no consequences. It's not hard to fill in.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516204517	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516204519	But what will the value of it eventually be if we have 15, 20, 30, 40 or 50 things that we need to check with every bill? I think it is far better that we have a clear action plan for what we want with the global goals and how we intend to implement them in Danish law. I believe that this will provide a much better quality, because it is possible to focus on implementation and not so much on certain principles that we must absolutely review, I do not know how many points, by every legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516204545	Mrs. Mette Gjerskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516204548	It is perhaps the crux of the problem that the action plan that the government has put forward is fairly sluggish. I think it is important that we stick to the fact that, on behalf of Denmark, the government must assume responsibility for the decisions that the whole world has taken. So that responsibility is not just about pointing the finger at all other countries and saying what to do. What has been agreed is that each country must do its own thing, so Denmark must also do something about the inequality. Denmark must also do something about the climate. And there is only one way to do it for us as politicians: our contribution is legislation. I simply cannot understand why we are opposed to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516204628	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516204629	Yes, Denmark must assume a responsibility, I think it was said, and I fully agree with that. That is also why the government has drawn up a plan of action, and it is then followed up by a coinage which is currently working on some concrete models which will then be presented after the summer holidays. I think that's the right way. In other words, it must be the goal and the effort that are the most important, and not that we say that we can now be happy to say that every time we have to pass a law no matter what it is about, we have written into it, that we have to look at the 17 world goals and the Paris Agreement. I just find it hard to see that this is a much better quality. I think it gives more bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516204708	Mrs. Mette Gjerskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516204711	Well, of course, the effort is the most important thing, but when we see the government's efforts in this area, we're just not very impressed. That is why we would very much like it to be perfectly clear to the Folketing when considering any legislative proposal whether we actually comply with the obligations that we have been involved in imposing on all other countries in the world as well. So it's not that hard. We would very much like to talk about administrative burdens and what problems may be involved. But it is the effort that is important. Where's the bet coming from? It comes from the fact that we are aware of this in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516204748	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516204750	I am, of course, sad about the remark, because otherwise I would like to impress Mrs Mette Gjerskov. I can't see that today. But I just want to say that I do not think we should be staring blindly at just making more points than the many points where the limit of that is then • then what we get adopted will be very good. After all, I think it is important that we sit down and acknowledge the commitments we have made and make some clear progress on the basis of the action plans we have made and say: how will we work on this? I think we do best by being targeted rather than just unconsciously having a whole range of points we have to meet every time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516204828	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. We are embarking on the round of rapporteurs, and that is first Mrs Mette Gjerskov, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516204848	Thank you, President. There is no Planet B. There were 100,000 people out here shouting when we had a climate summit in Denmark. That is why we have had an international agreement on climate change. It was not the responsibility of the current Prime Minister at that time, and it was perhaps very good, but it does not change the fact that the world has made a decision. The world has also decided on 17 world goals, such as: It's about inequality. And when we talk about inequality in the world, it is of course starving poor people in Africa and rich people in other parts of the world that we may be talking about. But what is special about this agreement is that we, as rich countries, have also committed ourselves to doing something. We have actually committed ourselves to looking at inequality in our own country as well. For example: If you are really, really poorly educated or have no education, you live 10 years shorter than those who have a long education. That's inequality. It is inequality in education that is inequality in health, it is inequality in living conditions, it is inequality in all sorts of different ways. We have to do something about that. We must do something about that in our country. It is not something we can suck off on all sorts of others; it is ours. We have been pleased with the cooperation with the government on the world goals of the development policy strategy in relation to what is going to happen in the world but we are not impressed by the action plan we have seen. We believe that we need to be clear here in the Parliamentary Chamber in every legislative proposal as to whether there is any impact on the climate or on the global objectives and, if so, what it may be. I would also like to say that I shall make a proposal to the proposers that these should be major consequences. I would like to go so far as to admit to the Minister that we are not going into petties; these must be major consequences. It's a big device we're gonna set in motion here. But if we can get the essentials in, and I think we can, because I think that is the intention of the proposers too, then we are in. And then, when we move forward in the process and the minister has to start making legislative proposals, because of course he is convinced by our good arguments, then of course we must also have an economic bureaucratic, I think perhaps the minister could say "impact assessment of this proposal." Because of course we have to look at what it can cost to do this kind of thing. There has to be an economy that is connected. But that doesn't change the fact that I think it's the right thing to do. We also believe that when you talk about a growth potential for Denmark what was the weekly letter Monday Morning wrote last week, and they are certainly not some people who belong in the social democratic backyard, well at 95,000 jobs just in the green area, 95,000 jobs, that is, it can also be said here. Yeah, that's what my North Jutland colleagues say. So I think it is very relevant that, in addition to the ordinary environmental and economic and administrative and business matters and all the other things we're investigating, we're looking at exactly this complex that's going to mean really, very much to our descendants.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516205240	There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516205244	Thank you. I just do not quite understand what the so-called compromise proposal of the Social Democratic Party is really about, because it is really a copy of what the Minister of Justice just said the government is working on. What the representatives of the government, including myself, have said over and over again is that it is precisely one of the models that is being looked at, namely that in the future, instead of wasting time on every legislative proposal and every single resolution, we are looking at whether it has anything to do with the new world objectives, we are looking at it in the context where it has a major interest or where it plays a major role. So what the Social Democrat rapporteur is now trying to do is kick in an open door. And it's not just an open door, it's also a door where a red carpet has come out front. So I honestly don't understand what the Social Democrats are trying to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516205328	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516205330	Either the rapporteur is very, very optimistic, or perhaps he has misunderstood the proposal I made. One thing is that the government decides with itself whether it thinks something is essential or not. It is not because we are always super impressed with the criteria that are being set for what is essential and what is not essential. So we would much rather have it written down so that it is written in the legislative proposals. Because otherwise it's just something that's going on over at the government. Then the government can sit in its small rooms and agree with itself whether it thinks anything is important. No, you have to answer to the Danish Parliament, and if something important in relation to the global goals and the climate goals, an analysis needs to be made.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516205415	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516205417	Quite frankly, I do not understand the desire to try to create a conflict in an area where we should be united. Because we all agree that these new world goals are important. We also agree that they should play a role in Denmark. That is also why we have placed the coinage itself in the Ministry of Finance, which is one of the most important ministries at all, and which also has a role in relation to all the different budget lines. So I simply do not understand the attempt to create a conflict about something that is not a conflict. I do not understand why the government will not be allowed to make its specific proposal first.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516205448	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516205450	Well, the government has said that the government itself will carry out such an essential assessment. It just doesn't want to share it with the Folketing. I would say that I agree that we have had good cooperation. In fact, that is what I said in my rapporteur's speech. We have had a lot of good cooperation. We may not be quite so impressed by the way the government intends to implement this in Denmark. We are still examining and discussing this. But the government must share that assessment with us in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516205525	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516205527	Thank you. I would like to thank the rapporteur for supporting the intention and direction of this proposal and, of course, acknowledge that we will try to find out whether it can be corrected so that there are more who can be involved in it. Because, of course, we can always talk about how to do it as precisely as possible. The important thing is that we can hopefully get a majority in favour of this proposal, so the Folketing says to the government: it is absolutely necessary to assess the impact if we are to live up to these agreements, in which we do not have very many years to live up to.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516205602	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516205604	I can just express my agreement. I'm quite sure we can work this out. It's just writing the word essential. It is in the same way that most of the other demands we have on the laws are in fact related, namely that it is a matter of assessing significant influences. I do not think we can disagree on that and I hope that we can find a formula so that we can also get the government to join us.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516205625	Sir. Christian Juhl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516205629	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I agree far along the way. I would like to hear from the rapporteur: does the rapporteur understand why the Left in this area wants to create a conflict on something that we seem to agree on?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516205642	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516205644	That was actually a very good question. I was thinking about it myself, but I did not have to ask the questions from up here when the rapporteur of the Left was on. But no, I can't believe you have to make this a problem. I am quite sure that this is something we can handle, and I would say: let us talk about it now and see if we can get the government on the right track; otherwise we will have to demonstrate at the Palace Square or something.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516205708	Then we thank Mrs Mette Gjerskov and move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Gjerskov. Mikkel Dencker, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516205727	I would just like to mention this in the motion for a resolution to remind you of what we are discussing here: making it compulsory for all legislative proposals dealt with in the Folketing to be assessed in terms of how they meet the UN's 17 world objectives and the Paris climate agreement. It is the case that there are a number of things that are now compulsory to assess, among other things. how legislative proposals have an impact on economic and administrative consequences for the state, regions and municipalities, and accordingly for business, the impact on the environment, EU law and administrative consequences for citizens. These are the things that are now mandatory, and then there is also the possibility today that impact assessments can be carried out in all kinds of other areas where it may be relevant to the subject covered by the draft law. I would like to say that we in the Danish People's Party believe that this is fully adequate and adequate for the need. We are surprised that the proposers are making the proposal here. We are aware that the UN's global objective is also something that Denmark has agreed to, the same with the Paris climate agreement, and we are fully aware of that, but to elevate the UN's global goals and the Paris climate agreement to such a special sacred status that everything must be measured up, we believe that is going too far. This can be done where appropriate. I simply do not see when we are making social policy why it should then be assessed against the Paris climate agreement and I could give several other examples. We also fear, if the motion for a resolution is adopted here, that it will then be used as a lever to ensure that the proposers will certainly come up with other resolutions in which other things should be elevated to a special status, for example. the Convention on Human Rights, the Convention on Refugees and several other things that we in the Danish People's Party do not consider appropriate to interfere with Danish legislation and which we do not think should be given special status. So in these words, we in the Danish People's Party reject the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516205947	There are just a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516205951	I think it is a little bit much to say that it has sacred status. We're in the Folketing, we're not in the church at the moment. Does the rapporteur think that the current quality requirements for legislation have a sacred status or are something cumbersome and bureaucratic something that we have nothing to do with?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516210013	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516210015	No, I do not think so, but the mandatory requirements that are today are very broadly formulated and cover many broad aspects, while the things that the proposers want are some particularly selected areas such as the UN's world objectives and the Paris climate agreement, and that is not relevant in all contexts.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516210034	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516210036	I might almost be tempted to ask: how long does the rapporteur think it takes to write that there is no impact on those demands or that there is no consequence? But I don't want to ask that, 'cause everybody can figure that out. It'll take two seconds. I would just like to ask: does the rapporteur not think that with the Paris Agreement and with the 17 world demands we are actually close to an edge and that if we do not act, if we do not do it better and differently than we have done so far, then our children and grandchildren will have serious, very serious problems, for example. refugee flows across Europe?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516210114	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516210117	I certainly believe that the UN's global goals are relevant. They just aren't in every context. The same is true of the Paris climate agreement. It is an agreement that almost all the countries of the world have signed, and of which Denmark is also a part, and I certainly believe that we must live up to it. But it is just not relevant to assess in all contexts, nor should it be elevated to such a special status. This is something to be assessed where appropriate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516210144	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516210146	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for some good ideas about how we should otherwise assess our legislation. For it is clear that it is always good to have international agreements with when we assess legislation. Then I would like to comment on what the rapporteur says about social policy. Well, it is so important to look at the 17 World Goals 3 to ensure a healthy life, promote well-being, World Goal 4 to ensure access to quality education, World Goal 5 on equality, World Goal 11 to make communities inclusive, safe and robust. So social policy also has something to do with these objectives. Then I have a question: how will the rapporteur ensure that we live up to the climate agreement if we do not assess the impact? Because if we look at the Paris Agreement, we can see that there is, of course, a point of no retrograde step, i.e. no backsliding, as it says in the agreement. How does the rapporteur want us to live up to this if we do not assess it in relation to the legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516210237	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516210238	But we are already living up to the Paris Agreement in the steps that are now being taken. However, we do not have to judge every time we make legislation here in the Folketing whether it is now up to the Paris Agreement. What does social policy have to do with the climate agreement? What does legal policy have to do with the climate agreement? I do not see any relevance in that at all. However, the Danish People's Party believes that we must live up to the Paris agreement, and we are already working on that in the circle of climate rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516210309	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516210310	First, I was a little surprised when I heard that we are already living up to the Paris Agreement. That would be amazing. But then it is precisely that there is the question of what is in the way of a proposal that does not have any impact on it at all and does not mean that we are taking backward steps, which we are taking in a number of areas of climate right now, but, for example, in the area of climate change. It is a question of legal policy and has no impact on it. Well, what's terrible about having to write that it has no effect here, but where you take in the world goals, which we have little 5,000 days to live up to?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516210342	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516210343	Well, I answered it already in my rapporteur's speech, where I said that in the Danish People's Party we do not believe that the climate agreement or the global goals should be elevated to such a special sacred status. Nor do we believe that there should be any other international conventions. I know the questioner would like that. And I do not quite believe in the claim that I have now given him good ideas, because I think that the ideas were there in advance they have just not been put forward yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516210411	Then it's Mrs. Mette Gjerskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516210426	I would like to start by saying to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party that I am impressed. I'm impressed, and I was wondering, when will it be? We simply managed to get foreign policy into this proposal. Oh, that's impressive, I must say congratulations! But if we ignore it, I simply do not understand the arguments for saying no at all. Well, there are other things we're looking into in advance. I don't think it sounds like the Danish People's Party has even taken a position on precisely these world goals. After all, the global objectives touch on all possible aspects of society, and that is why it is important that we pay attention to them in all possible aspects of society: health, education, inequality. It is not just climate and sustainability; it is all sorts of different.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516210516	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516210518	Well, I think it's relevant to assess it in those contexts where it's relevant. For example: When we make energy policy, we can assess it against the objectives of climate change and in relation to the climate agreement, that is relevant enough, but not when we make legal policy • that has nothing to do with the climate agreement. Mrs Gjerskov also says that the UN's global goals are important, and so are they, yes. There are none of the 17 objectives I object to. But just as much as we in Denmark tend to declare ourselves climate dux, I would say in relation to declaring Denmark to be a world goal duk, that there are many of these world goals that we have already implemented in Denmark or are very, very close to.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516210604	Mrs. Mette Gjerskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516210606	Yeah, that's what the government says, and that's what the problem is. It's that the government thinks we've come this far. There's still work to be done. What puzzles me is that the Danish People's Party, which is not a governing party, does not want this matter in the Assembly. What the Danish People's Party says today is that it leaves it to the government, and then they can assess it behind closed doors. It is not an assessment that must come over here in the Parliamentary Chamber and stand in the bill. And I am actually wondering, because one thing is that the government thinks it is very practical, but the rest of us must think it is nicer that it comes in the Chamber of Parliament with the elected representatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516210646	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516210647	Now it's the government, you leave it to assess these things, and I've actually been quite comfortable with that for all the years I've been in parliament. But there is still nothing that prevents me or Mrs Gjerskov or the 177 other members of the House from, if you think there is something that is unenlightened in a legislative proposal, then ask questions about it. It is a practice which is quite active in this Parliament, and I intend to continue to do so, and I think the questioner will.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516210711	Thank you, sir. Mikkel Dencker and move on to mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516210720	Thank you. The United Nations 2030 Sustainable Development Agenda and its 17 World Goals together with the Paris Agreement constitute a global vision for sustainable development in the world. It is an ambition and an agenda that Denmark must also contribute to fulfilling. Denmark's ambitions in the climate area are well known. We are at the forefront of energy efficiency and green energy. The UN's global objective is a central part of Denmark's development aid, for we must also remember that the global objectives are also included in the new development policy strategy, which has been endorsed by a broad majority of the parliamentary parties. So Denmark goes seriously and purposefully to the work of achieving the goals agreed upon by the countries of the world. Now to the proposal itself. In fact, the Left agrees with the intention, but fears that it may be very bureaucratic. The motion for a resolution will make it compulsory to carry out these impact assessments of legislative proposals in order to clarify the positive or negative consequences of the legislative proposal. It is actually the Left's ambition that we should have less bureaucracy and less public procedures. The motion for a resolution will force our officials to produce a lot of text every time there is a new legislative proposal or resolution. To put it mildly, it is difficult to see the purpose of this, because no matter how many analyses are written in connection with each bill, it is of no benefit to the world's poorest or the climate. Instead, we should address the global goals and climate challenges where appropriate, because there are many legislative proposals where it makes absolutely no sense to have to deal with the UN's global goals or climate change. On the other hand, this does not mean that the objectives of the world are so indifferent to the legislative work of the Parliamentary Assembly and, as the government's action plan shows, the government also wants legislative proposals and other actions to be assessed in the future in relation to the UN's global sustainable development goals, as appropriate, and if the consequences of these matters are significant in relation to the proposal itself. It makes much more sense than that we need to assess all the proposals, whether or not they have the most to do with the climate and sustainable development. So all in all, the Left cannot support the bill, and I should also like to welcome the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mr. Naser Khader, and say that neither can the Consevative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516211000	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, first from Mrs Mette Gjerskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516211005	Thank you. Now I think it was a little strange that the rapporteur actually talked most about all the developments we have made in developing countries and how good we were at it, and something like that. After all, this is about what we are going to do in Denmark and, as I hear it, the biggest appeal to this resolution is that it will probably create a whole lot of bureaucracy. But is the rapporteur based on something that he knows about? I myself have tried to be an official and, yes, it sharpens the pen of an official that you are being held responsible for writing a bill so that it is made very clear what it has to do with consequences. But has the Left done some major study work on the fact that there will be more bureaucracy? What do we know about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516211059	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516211101	The question then is whether the Left has done a bureaucratic analysis of whether it will generate more bureaucracy. The answer is no, we do not. In fact, we want less bureaucracy. In relation to my focus on whether it is outside the country's borders or within the country, it is not a secret, because I have said that many times on the part of the Left, we believe that if we are to reach a great deal from a global perspective, the main effort must also be in the field of foreign policy. It must be in relation to developing countries and by putting in relief that we can make a huge difference in relation to the UN's global goals in a large number of countries. Does this mean that we should not do so in Denmark? No, it does not, and that is why we have also said that, of course, there must also be the focus. However, I would like to arrest, as Mrs Gjerskov said earlier, that equality should be the major area of action in Denmark. I will just have to say from the left: making the most equal country in the world even more equal is perhaps not an area of action on which we need to devote a great deal of effort, given the many unequal countries that also exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516211208	Mrs. Mette Gjerskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516211210	So now the rapporteur just got me into the red field. It wasn't equality. It was equality and inequality, not gender equality, but, for example, equality. between rich and poor. We have people in whom, on the basis of their education or lack of education alone, we can identify that they live 10 years shorter than those who are highly educated. They will find it harder to get back into the labour market if they get out of the labour market, they have more difficulty dealing with social events, they are more ill and they have a worse quality of life, and you know that is only because of their education. Does the rapporteur not, frankly, think that there is still a bit to be done in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516211250	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516211251	Yeah, with a little emphasis. Because if we look at this with a global focus, we can see that there are so many countries where that, if we just moved 1 millimeter there, would mean a lot to these citizens. That is why I do not think we should discuss whether the most equal country in the world might be there or there, and that is what we should focus all our attention on and spend all our speaking time on. I have to admit that I strongly disagree, and that is why I am trying to balance this balance, which Mrs Mette Gjerskov obviously does not quite hear. It may be because I am not clear enough, but the main focus should be on foreign policy. But that does not mean that we should forget Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516211328	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516211332	One would almost think that the quality requirements that the rapporteur himself has helped to introduce into the current laws are bureaucracy that should be removed. Why is that never proposed? I often think about that, even when you say things like that, because it returns to the arrow again. When I have seen what the proposal is about, I go down first and look, and then I say: What are the consequences? Great, that's just an overview. It takes a second for me, and there are some officials who have done a good and thorough job before this. Two more lines would benefit me very, very much, because that would draw my attention to: Just remember to think about the climal goals, and remember to think about the global goals when you review this proposal. That would be the small touch that made me think every day that this proposal should also be considered. In doing so, we are using our powers wisely to make the many small steps forward. I guess we've always made a profit being ahead, too. We have been ahead of development aid ever since I was 20 years old, and we are still gone because we keep trying to get ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516211436	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516211438	Thank you for the fact that Enhedslisten still thinks we are at the forefront of development aid, I am pleased about that, and I agree with that. What I said to Mrs Mette Gjerskov earlier, I just want to say again to the Enhedslisten: I do not understand why you are trying to get a conflict out of this. I do not understand why, when the government has clearly said that models of how to ensure that the action plan can be implemented are being drawn up at the moment, we are not waiting to see how it will work in practice before making our proposal. I don't understand. One really must have a deep, deep distrust of the blue side of the House, in that we do not want the same with regard to the world goals as one wants from the Enhedslisten. Fair enough, you can have that, but perhaps you should just wait and watch the time when we in the government have said that there are already some concrete models right after the summer break. I do not understand why we want to create a conflict in which there is in fact no one, because we want to achieve the objectives of the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516211537	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516211539	Now it is not the proposers who are trying to create a conflict, it is the rapporteur himself who is yelling and yelling and doing so by interfering. What if we had a government that hugging and inclusive said to the opposition: there's a good proposal, you know what, we're taking that along. Shouldn't we start by deciding? Because we know that this has to be done as a small part, but we have much, much more visionary things that we also want to bring with us. And then you could invite the opposition to join in making it into something common. Because if we're gonna achieve these goals, we're gonna have to share that. Then there is no point in sitting and reproaching the opposition for making early proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516211615	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516211616	I am very sorry if I speak too loudly in relation to Mr. Thompson. Christian Juhl's temper, I deeply regret that. I'm talking so that I can be understood, and hopefully, even sir. Christian Juhl can understand what I'm saying. In relation to the specific question, who is the cause of the conflict? Who is the author of the motion for a resolution? The Alternative and Enhedslisten do. So you choose to table a motion for a resolution before you see what the government is really doing. I would like to say that those who start the conflict are the ones who are trying to shoot this in.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516211652	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516211653	It is good enough news that to table a motion for a resolution should be to start a conflict. Wow, we have a lot of conflicts here in the Assembly Hall. I thought it was called debate and democracy. Apparently, it doesn't. When we do not wait to put it forward here, it is because we are already 11⁄2 years in relation to both the climate agreement and the global objectives. They were decided in 2015, and we are now writing 2017. We have to achieve these 17 world goals by 2030. It's been 11⁄2 years out of 15 years, so we're busy. I have a question. I would like to hear more about this with the rapporteur's reference to the fact that it is not attention to it or knowledge of what changes something for the poorest on earth or for mother land. But how can attention to and knowledge of the consequences of legislation we make not be of benefit to our land and to the poor who need help?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516211752	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516211754	I know we're dancing around this with conflict or not conflict. Actually, I'm tired of that, because I don't want conflict. That is why I do not understand why we are not holding to the positive spirit that was actually about the development policy strategy, where we all, including the Alternative, but minus the Enhedslisten, gave hands to each other that we want to ensure that the work for the global objectives is implemented in relation to our development strategy. And in relation to the internal debate, we have seen an action plan from the government, and it is now said that some concrete models will be drawn up. I must admit that it is just because I have experience from many, many years of work in local politics, where one agreed to reach the goal instead of spending the time on bullshit and squabbling, I apologise for saying that I would rather have the time set, and then one could attack the government if what the government is doing is not satisfactory enough. But just that opening doesn't come from the alternative. I have to admit, I don't understand. Frankly, I don't understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516211859	Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516211901	Bullshit! Bullshit! And conflict? The only person who has spoken about conflict, the person who started talking about conflict, is the rapporteur of the Left. Well, we don't have time to be patient. We have 15 years. We have a Paris agreement which must also be achieved. We have a climate that is suffering and an earth that is suffering, and that is why we are saying: let us now get started. And the Left could also say: God, a good proposal, let us take it with us now, so that we get on with our work and so that we do not go backwards in the climate area. I simply do not understand the position of the Left in this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516211935	The higher powers must not be called upon in the argument. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516211940	Thank you. The government has, of course, done something even better, and it is that before the proposal was made and sent into the attempt to get this debate started, the government has said that there will be some concrete models for how and how the action plan will be implemented. And yes, it may well be that the alternative will have a plan next week, but good government practice is also that you have to do things just a little bit worked out. That's why I was hoping there was a little patience, so you might have seen these models before you came up with such a proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516212014	Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516212016	Thank you. I also wondered a few things in the rapporteur's speech. I'm going to Ukraine tomorrow to represent this inter-political network that we've got here in the Danish Parliament and it's very impressive, so many people are participating in it and where I'm going to tell you about how we work with the sustainability goals here in Denmark. And we must realise that we have not come very far and that there is not much to tell yet. I am somewhat surprised at the interpretation and why the rapporteur is not positive about this. There is much talk about foreign policy, that it is where it is so relevant. This does not really harmonize, I think, with the fact that we have actually committed ourselves to implementing it across the board in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516212101	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516212102	I have to admit that I do not understand it at all if the questioner thinks nothing is being done. It is the case that a concrete development policy strategy has been drawn up where the alternative is included and where the 17 world objectives are a common thread throughout the strategy. There has been a concrete action plan in relation to both the internal perspective and the external perspective for which the Minister for Finance and Development have been the banners. And then the government has also said that right now we are well in the process of drawing up models on how to implement the action plan. Forgive me for saying this bluntly: it sounds to me as if a lot has actually been done. And according to what I am aware of as the Foreign Affairs rapporteur, there are a large number of countries including the country that the questioner travels to the country which does not have close to the pace we actually have in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516212201	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516212203	I think it is positive that we have got started and have created an inter-political network and that the government is doing something. And I also think that the Minister for Finance is much more in favour of implementing it here in Denmark and across legislation, education and so on. So that is the whole domestic part of it that I wonder why the rapporteur has so little focus.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516212232	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516212233	It goes a little with the job, given that I am a foreign policy rapporteur. That is why, as rapporteur, I naturally have the necessary insight into what is happening on the foreign policy stage. However, as I have now said repeatedly, a plan of action has been adopted, also in relation to the internal angle for which the Minister of Finance is responsible. After all, it is not a joke that the Minister of Finance and thus the whole Ministry of Finance have been involved. It is to show the seriousness of this, namely that this is something that can be reflected in all budgetary areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516212306	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516212307	I cannot help but wonder why the rapporteur continues to say that we have to wait and see the time. Does the rapporteur not agree that it is indeed urgent to address the UN's 17 global objectives for sustainable development and the Paris Agreement's climate objectives so important that it is urgent? When does the rapporteur expect this model of how we can push a little extra to meet these objectives to be presented?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516212343	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516212343-2	Thank you for that specific question. It will be just after the summer break, I have heard, and the Minister for Justice confirmed it earlier in the debate. And the action plan has already been adopted. Fortunately, it is also nice that the Danish Parliament has joined up on this intergroup. I myself am a member of this group, and there is also ample opportunity to debate it cross-partyly and cross-partyly. Because I fully agree that these world goals are extremely important. Then we can discuss this, and we will get many debates out of where the focus should be, whether it be foreign or domestic, or what it should be, and I look forward to those debates.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516212418	Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516212420	It is a good thing that it will come after the summer holidays, because it is precisely something that is urgent, something that we must do about as soon as possible. So I would just like to call for it to be incorporated quickly once it is presented and that we may be open to being even more ambitious than what is being proposed so that we can really get this thing moving. Does the rapporteur not agree that it might be good to push a little extra and be even more ambitious about these very, very important objectives?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516212451	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516212452	Well, I think we're already extremely ambitious. In other words, if you read our development policy strategy, which is the first ever that we have made the first one ever, then you can see that it is written about world goals over and over again. It's a common thread through it all. I also think that the action plan presented by the Minister for Finance and Development is extremely ambitious. That is why, of course, I am confident that the models will also be ambitious.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516212519	Thank you, sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen. There are no more brief comments. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516212528	Thank you, Mr President. I think that the Danish people really, really want to do something about this and also really want their elected representatives to do everything they can to help them do something at all. I don't want any conflict about this. I wonder why old, angry men in the government can be trampled so much on their toes that they have had such a bloodless debate as they have had here. I actually thought the Left could deliver something in this area, could contribute and have so much profit that they dared say to the opposition: hey, that's a good idea, we're taking it with us! But no, even in an area as relatively manageable as this one says it's a problem, and it's a conflict, and I don't know what. These are things that could be put in place and tested with relatively few forces, and if you were afraid of it, you could say that we should try to see how things are going for the first two years, the first three years, and if it is pure bureaucracy and a waste of time, you could say: Well, then we try something else. Because I'm sure the government's come up with something even better. This is not how we usually work in the Enhedslisten or where I come from in the trade unions. There you try to ask people if they have any good ideas, if there could be a shortcut, if you have missed something, and then you try to pull the load together, and we should do so, especially when we have our backs on the wall, and especially when we move completely on the edge and it has become serious when our children and grandchildren get there once. These are existential goals set for humanity. It's not something you have to do with your left hand, just to say that you've done it, and then get a cross in the grade book. These are specific changes that need to be made every day for the next 5,000 days if this is to succeed. That is why it is so disappointing if a government says: Hm, we will take that later! Actually I had thought that I could only say, as I have said other times: the government was born in the wheelbarrow's sign, they must be both lifted and pushed to move forward. But then we don't get any dialogue, so it's no good to say in this context. That is why I am trying to appeal to common sense, which, after all, must be behind every Left Heart. For that matter, too, the Conservative and Liberal Alliance on this issue, by saying: it is also the survival of your children that is at stake. It doesn't really matter if you're rich or poor today. Our next generations are going to suffer from this. You can't buy yourself out of it in 30, 40 and 50 years, it can't be done. It's a global threat that will hit us if we do nothing. That is why we need to take some steps. Here is a small, cautious step, and I would even say that if the government had criticised us for saying that this is not visionary enough, I would have said: absolutely right. I'm sorry! It was just an idea we had at this time, but we'll make an effort next time. We'll also promise that every time we come up with a good idea, we'll throw it on the table. At least on my own behalf. And if the minister wants to invite you to negotiations and inspirational meetings and things like that, I'll come every time I promise. That is why I would ask you to try to turn the positive side, it must be somewhere else. Otherwise, I fear how the poor people who have joined the Left have, unless Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen comes to the meetings and says: "Don't get too busy, we have a plan. Poor people! It is a great and diverse effort that needs to be made, and I think this is a very good tool. We have tried it out since 2005 or 2008, or when it was introduced, in a number of areas, and I have no doubt that at that time some people said: what sort of bureaucratic thing is this? Surely we should not have that in the legislation. The government will take care of that. But we've gotten used to it. It is even the case that when I ask both the DFs and the Left if it is something bureaucratic bad we have, because then we have to get it out, the answer is: no, it is not, it is good enough with what we have, but it should not go too far either. Yes, it must go too far, for we are dealing with things that we have never done before, neither in Mr Beyer de Ryke's report. Michael Aastrup Jensen's time, in my time, or for that matter, compared to other people in here who are older than me. This is so important that we need to act, and there we could take the first step when we have to revise our legislation anyway, and assess what consequences it will have for everything possible, and then expand in relation to the environmental impact, to the consequences for the Third World, to the consequences for inequality. It's not hard for a really good official to do. It won't take long. There are, of course, some more who must contribute, and where it is superfluous and has nothing to do with legislation, it takes two seconds to write that it has no consequences. You can get on your computer such an auto function, where you press a button once, and then it says no consequences. I believe that there is no excuse: it is only an attempt to delay things as with the other things. Now we have spent two years and we have not yet taken one consistent step, dear government. Get out of the phone!
ParlaMint-DK_20170516213038	It has consequences when you exceed speaking time. But there is now a brief comment from Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516213044	Now I have to be careful if I can even stand on my old legs. But back to what it really is about: how and how we ensure that we have also achieved the 2030 global goals. Will the Enhedslisten not recognise that Denmark is one of the countries that is actually at the forefront? We have it as a common thread in our development strategy, all of which minus Enhedslisten is in, we have made an action plan, and the government has repeatedly and again said that there are some concrete models. The coinage is even located in the Ministry of Finance. Aren't we one of the nations in the world that is most in front of this? And are we not thus trying to create a conflict where there is no conflict?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516213123	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516213125	I say quite quietly and cautiously: I do not want any conflict, I want action in this area. Even if I have to stand on my head between now and midnight, I'd like to inspire the government to act. If I had believed that the strategy and the action plan would carry us in these areas, then I would have voted in favour of it. But I don't believe that. I don't believe we're gonna get to the finish line at this rate. I've been looking at other countries. There are other countries that are much, much longer than us, fortunately, when, and I also hope, it will be used at the Nordic and European levels to inspire each other and that it will also inspire our government, so you look over the Sound and down in Europe and say: Hey, there was an idea. We don't have to invent the deep plate again here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516213213	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516213215	I think that, for the sake of Mr. Christian Juhl's health will probably recommend him not to stand on his head and everything else. This could soon end badly. However, in relation to what we are now again trying to create some kind of discussion about where we really agree, namely the global objectives, what exactly is the reason why we have to create a layer where we go into every single legislative proposal? Is it a mistrust that the government will come up with a concrete model, or is it because it is believed that today in a legislative proposal there should be nine points to be examined instead of eight points today?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516213249	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516213249-2	No, it shows that it is a good way to remember each other and yourself, that you have to pay attention to something important, and there is nothing more important at the moment. A few of the other points could be taken out for my sake if we are to give priority to them, but these two things are absolutely essential for all politicians in this Parliament. So we have to do something. Here is one suggestion, because that way we would think about it every time we made a decision in here, and it would be a start to take a little bit in the right direction every time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516213323	Thank you, sir. Christian Juhl. There are no further brief comments, and we shall move on to Mr Beazley's report. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516213332	I would almost like to start by saying that I personally will actually promise to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution if Mr. Christian Juhl then stands on his head from now until midnight. But it's all on my own account and not on the account of the Liberal Alliance. So, instead of saying that when a legislative text is drawn up today in the various ministries, it must already contain a large number of points explaining the impact of the legislative proposal in certain areas. It provides a good overview and the areas have been selected because they are generally relevant for the assessment of a legislative proposal. Now the proposers will add another mandatory point: an impact assessment of the Danish contribution to the achievement of the UN's global sustainable development goals and the Paris Agreement's climate objectives. I very much appreciate and fully agree that where relevant, there should be a focus on the global impact of legislative proposals put forward in Denmark. That is why I and the Liberal Alliance do not believe that this should be done either by introducing a second mandatory impact assessment into the legislative proposals, firstly because it is unlikely to be relevant to a large number of legislative proposals, and secondly because an environmental impact analysis is already being carried out today, and including climate targets will often fall. So they are, in effect, already covered under the existing points. I know that the government has also already indicated, with its action plan for Denmark's achievement of the UN's global goals, that relevant legislative proposals will be assessed in relation to the global goals. So the way has already been paved for the relevant impact assessments. The only thing that really comes out of implementing the specific motion for a resolution is unnecessary compulsory administrative tasks in the ministries, which do not seem to improve the quality and clarity of the law immediately. Moreover, the motion for a resolution does not show how the unnecessary extra tasks are to be financed. So the Liberal Alliance cannot therefore support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516213621	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516213625	I hope that the rapporteur will agree that the things we have put forward as requirements for the quality of legislation are mandatory. I also hope that the rapporteur has noticed, if he has come so far in the text, that there is, in fact, a regular lack of consistency in some different areas. That's clear enough. And that means that our officials know the procedure, know the way to work. We know the way to read the text, that is to say it is not something new that we need to start with. It is just that we are now in a completely different situation where we have never had such crucial things to assess a law as we have with the 17 world goals and with the Paris Agreement. The rapporteur must then take the view that they are not essential in relation to the other demands we make on legislation. Is it the case that the 17 objectives and the Paris Agreement are less important than what we are assessing in the current quality objectives?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516213727	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516213729	I believe that the current quality targets are very important and, as I also said, the climate targets are often covered by environmental impact assessments, and the government is on the way with a model for how to deal with this. So that's why Mr. Christian Juhl imagine that there is no consequence when there is nothing, and when there is nothing, it is because it is not relevant to carry out an impact assessment in relation to the bill in question. Should Mr. Christian Juhl, by the way, doubted it, Mr. Christian Juhl also always has the opportunity to ask a follow-up question about the specific bill and formulate it, so that the minister and ministries have the opportunity to answer whether it has consequences in relation to the global goals or to the climate action in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516213817	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516213819	That was once a black speech for me, and the rapporteur must apologise for that. But we do it anyway when we write today that it has no relevance. If we were to add two more lines and we have a more enlightened basis for deciding on a bill, would that not be an advantage? At the moment, we have nothing. The government hasn't done anything concrete except some paperwork so far. Nor has the rapporteur himself, and we have only 5 000 days left to do the work. I guess we're about to have some tools, for example. These two?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516213854	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516213856	Where I come from and where Mr. Christian Juhl himself comes from, perhaps one would say that it is no longer urgent than it hunts. As the Minister has already explained, which has been mentioned several times by other rapporteurs here from the platform, there are models coming on the table, as I understand it, just after the summer break.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516213917	Mrs. Mette Gjerskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516213920	Thank you. Before I asked the rapporteur of the Left if there were any calculations of what this extra bureaucracy, which was so worried about, was costing, and then I was told that it was just bureaucratic, that is, no calculations had been made, it was simply claimed that it was bureaucracy. Now the Liberal Alliance rapporteur is also from a government-led party, and he is so polite, so he calls it unnecessary administrative tasks rather than bureaucracy. However, I would like to know whether the Liberal Alliance rapporteur has an analysis, a paper, a note, a statement, some study which shows that this provides additional administrative tasks.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516214000	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516214002	I can assure the questioner that I have not, and neither has the Liberal Alliance. I think that may be quite ingrained and intuitive for the members of the Liberal Alliance when we can spot bureaucracy or unnecessary administrative tasks from a distance • another wording which I used earlier for the ministries.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516214030	Mrs. Mette Gjerskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516214033	Intuitively, the Liberal Alliance bases its policy and its arguments on intuition! I don't understand it at all. I was just gonna tell you these were loose claims. I think that's actually better than if it's intuition, because then it sounds like you're sitting in a circle and some hallelujah somehow, but intuition! I would like to know if the government could provide a little concrete information on what is behind the arguments, rather than just being intuitive.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516214106	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516214108	It is shown that the alternative uses it. In fact, we are also sitting in our group room in a circle. It seems to me quite obvious that this will lead to more administrative trouble or unnecessary administrative tasks in the ministries. I do not need a major analysis of this, because it could also be called a matter of value policy that you do not want to put employees in ministries to do something that is not relevant.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516214136	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516214139	Thank you. I remember a former Prime Minister who was grossly bullied because he said that there will be a good solution tomorrow. Now we have only heard the rapporteur of the Left and now also the rapporteur of the Liberal Alliance say: there will be a good solution from the government after the summer break. But why can't this be part of the good solution, why not say that there is actually a very good tool here? I assume that the rapporteur is aware of the Paris Agreement and the text of the Paris Agreement that there must be no retrograde steps, that is to say, no slipping back slowly, but how will this be ensured as long as we only assess the environmental impact that often comes under it? If we sit and make some legislation and we have signed up to the fact that we do not take any steps backwards in the climate area, how will we ensure it when it is only often, and when it is not always, it is in the environmental field, because that is sometimes, can we understand?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516214235	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516214236	This is where applicable when it is considered to be relevant. That is, in fact, the short answer to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516214244	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516214245	But now it is not something that has been assessed by any of the laws that have been made in the last six months and that have indeed been relevant to the Paris Agreement. There has been no description of what the assessment is in relation to the achievement of the objectives of the Paris Agreement. So how are we to trust that it may often come under it in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516214311	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516214312	As I also said to Mr. Christian Juhl before: If it is not there, it is because it is not judged to be relevant. And if not, sir... Rasmus Nordqvist or other members of the Danish Parliament trust it, you have the opportunity, which I know is already widely used, to ask follow-up questions for specific legislative proposals, and it can then be formulated in relation to whether the specific legislative proposal has any consequences in terms of meeting climate targets or sustainability targets.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516214342	Thank you, sir. Carsten Bach. There are no more brief comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's line to Mr Beyer de Ryke. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516214351	Thank you. The Radical Left is huge supporters of the UN's 17 global goals for sustainable development and the Paris Agreement's climate objectives. It is important that we have international objectives that ensure that as many people as possible work in the same direction. All goals and appointments that give children... [Sound emission]... greener place, we are absolutely clear on. Some of them could, of course, be more ambitious, among others. in the area of climate change, and we must work hard on that. Therefore, at the weekend in a chronicle in Politiken, we were pleased to note that there is a green composition of parties, including the Radical Left, who would like even more greener, even more climate and have plenty of proposals for what is just waiting for the majority and the opportunity. When we have these global objectives, they must of course also be followed by concrete action, otherwise it does not matter. With the challenges we face globally, it requires global solutions, as well as it requires solutions locally in Denmark, where we must meet and implement our share of the goals. That is, of course, something that we must be aware of every time we work specifically on politics in this Chamber. That is why we welcome the fact that there are proposals here on how we can ensure this continuous follow-up and attention to the global objectives and the climate objectives; the positive intentions we can fully support. What is most important to us is that we do not introduce an unnecessarily extra bureaucratic element in the legislative process, and we will do so if we are to build such a section in all places also in cases where it is not relevant. For example, it will. do not make sense if, in connection with our legal proceedings this afternoon about remuneration, we used the whole table around the 17 world goals, got crossed a lot and added to and deducted from. So there may be cases where it doesn't make much sense. After all, as has already been stated, both in relation to the environment and climate, there are elements of conditions to be incorporated into the legislative proposal. In addition, it is, of course, gratifying to hear that the government will go even further than it is doing at the moment, and we look forward to seeing even more of that after the summer break. We are curious to see whether we can do this in a good way, where we will be even more ambitious on these very important objectives. So the government can be absolutely sure that the Radical Left, no matter what, will blow and breathe the government into the neck so that the ambitions will be as great as possible for the climate, for the children here at home, and for us to achieve these world goals, so that we will have both action and follow-up on the important efforts that need to be made for a greener globe and better opportunities for the world's children.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516214717	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516214720	I would like to take this opportunity to thank Mr Seligman. Kristian Hegaard, on behalf of the rapporteur, whom I very much welcome. I fully agree that, of course, there should not be any officials sitting there doing an incredible amount of work when it has no consequences, for example. in connection with the debate on pensions. But the pension basically also has some consequences. If it were not just a few ministers, for example. The whole country could have consequences for inequality. Therefore, it is worth considering whether it has consequences or not. That is what we are doing today with most things, and if it has no consequences, it is written that it has no consequences. When Liberal Alliance's rapporteur says it is no more urgent than it is hunting, it means in Danish: take it easy. It is not very important this. I would like to ask the rapporteur what radicals are saying about such a comment on the world objectives.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516214815	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516214816	There is no doubt that this is both urgent and a great deal of chasing, so that we can implement measures that will ensure a good continuous follow-up. So there is no doubt that that remark was probably not one of the most positive ones, and that is also why I put questions to the rapporteur of the Left who kept repeating in his speech: we have to wait and see what we have to look at this model when it comes at some point. In any case, I think that it is both urgent and urgent to have something done as quickly as possible in this area, and if we could have a model that pushes us even more in the right direction, pushes us even more in the green area, pushes us even more to give children better opportunities both in Denmark and in the world, then we must pursue it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516214911	Then it's mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516214913	Thank you. Now I understand that I am being involved in a debate between the Enhedslisten and the Radical Left. It is always nice to be involved in all kinds of places. May I just ask whether the Radical Left did not hear me say that I think the global objectives are extremely important and that we must achieve them. We must reach them both at international level, and that is why we are extremely ambitious with regard to our development strategy, and we must reach them on the internal level, which is why we are also very serious when, among other things, we are serious. the Minister of Finance is responsible for the achievement of internal objectives. And we have drawn up an ambitious action plan which will be followed by an ambitious model which will be presented after the summer. Does this not show seriousness step by step? If we were not serious, we would have just talked it into some corner and then set up some committee or committee or something else. That's not what we're doing. We are constantly putting it on the agenda in relation to both the development stage and the internal stage. Is it not ambitious, and is it not to take it seriously?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516215018	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516215020	It is true that I hear the Left and the rapporteur talking about the UN's global objective of sustainability, talking about the climate objectives of the Paris Agreement, and then it is just not always enough to talk about them. It is gratifying that we have this action plan and so on, but there is not so much action that it does anything. And when we look at this follow-up that we would like to make in relation to making some ongoing assessments in relation to the consequences of various legislative proposals, we could of course make a model for it before the summer break rather than after the summer break. So in this way there is a difference in relation to the fact that there is a lot of talk about it, but that you could do even more. And I've heard that a few times now.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516215112	The questioner. No, we'll stop here. Thank you, sir. Kristian Hegaard. And then it's Mrs. Trine Torp, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516215122	Thank you. Since the SF rapporteur in this area, Holger K. Nielsen, could not be present during the debate, I have promised to hold the rapporteur's speech. The UN's 17 global goals and the Paris climate goals are important to us and the whole world and should be the framework for the decisions we make in here. After all, Denmark is part of the whole world, and that is why we also have to make decisions that concern both ourselves and others. On 18 January, a majority of the parties reached a settlement on Denmark's development policy and humanitarian strategy, based on the UN's global goals. It is no secret that we do not agree with the government on the economic level of the development policy strategy and we will fight for a future government to raise the level. However, we welcome the fact that so many parties are involved in the conciliation on development aid, so that we are united in supporting the UN's 17 sustainability objectives. The proposal we are debating here means that we can further support the UN's global goals. For example: the objective of reducing inequality in and between countries, the objective of promoting the opportunity for lifelong learning for all, as well as the objective of combating climate change and its consequences, we value very much. This proposal precisely ensures that we can learn about the consequences our decisions have on achieving the global objectives, that we can help to combat climate change by making climate-friendly decisions, and that we can therefore hopefully contribute to reducing inequality within and between countries. The proposal put forward here by the Alternative and Enhedslisten will ensure that we support the 17 world objectives in all the decisions we take here in the Folketing and that we support the important climate objectives of the Paris Agreement. So the SF supports the resolution and turns the thumb upside down.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516215324	Thank you to Mrs Trine Torp. There are no brief comments. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516215341	Thank you. I have really been looking forward to this debate today, and I have, because I thought that there really is something here that we can actually stand together on. We hear praises of the 17 world objectives we hear praises of the Paris Agreement, and here we come with a resolution that would be helpful, a small tool for helping the government to live up to them as well. So I'll start with all my happy words. First of all, I would like to thank the parties who have expressed their support for this SF and the Social Democratic Party and say that we can, of course, look at whether a little change should be made in the wording, so that is quite adequate. Because it's important, at least, that we get a tool that actually brings in everything we do. For that is basically what both the Paris Agreement and the sustainability objectives are: a change in the way we think, so we see ourselves as part of the global community and part of the development that is taking place on earth. 4.978 days I was just sitting there talking after the debate is what we have left if we are to live up to the UN's 17 global goals for sustainable development. So that is not many, and it is not many when we have spent 11⁄2 years trying to get an action plan, and now we have to wait until after the summer to know what some tools should be. There is a tool here; I think it should be seized so that we move on. For us, it is such an indispensable requirement for politicians that we are actually acting ecologically and socially long-term. As legislators, we must safeguard our soil; we must take into account all living organisms that live on it now and in the future. We have not been good enough for this so far, either in Denmark or worldwide. On the contrary, the massive climate and environmental impact and the total overuse of the planet's scarce resources have been decisive for declining biodiversity, extreme weather conditions, natural disasters, famines, water shortages, rising temperatures, warmer chords. It's all become everyday. So the time we are living in right now is absolutely crucial. So if we're going to reverse this trend, it's going to have to be now. That is why many of us applauded, smiled and, indeed, jumped when we saw the 17 world goals come true when they were decided by world leaders and when the Paris Agreement reached its goal under COP21. Because we really need an orchestral act if we are to preserve this land inhabitable both for ourselves, our children and grandchildren etc. But it takes action, and it takes action all around. It is no use thinking that it is about foreign policy or development policy, because it is really about a lot of political areas if we are to live up to this. We hear again and again that the Left rapporteur also mentioned that we are one of the best, if not, but then it is time to read this out, and I should like to give some help to both the world goals and the climate agreement down on the green walk at the riding track, because it is not just about what is happening out there. It is also about what is happening here, especially the Paris Agreement, where it says in black and white: no retrograde step if we are to live up to the agreements we have made. Then we will also have to think what is happening here into national legislation. We can be so good, but we will not live up to the agreement if we do not live up to that part. The same applies to the global objectives for sustainable development. Well, we might be really good, but we signed that we want to live up to this, and there's these 4,978 days left. Well then, let us take the steps that make us live up to it fully at home, and that at the same time we also think about it every time we take foreign or development policy steps. That's what we really wanted with this proposal. I cannot count on a precise majority now and here, but it may well be that in a committee we can push a little bit of this so that we can perhaps get the government to say: thank you for this good tool; we will take that to heart; we will support it so that we can move on.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516215820	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Michael Aastrup Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516215823	Thank you. In the positive spirit which the Alternative now wants to provide homework help, I would also like to act as a memory for the Alternative. On 31 March 2017, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs announces that there is an action plan and that we now have to get started, and the second paragraph states: "The plan envisages that new Danish legislation, when relevant, should be assessed in relation to the global goals. I simply do not understand the alternative if you really mean what you say, namely that we should all stand together in this, that we should all take this seriously and that it should not just run like something with a red block against a blue block etc. Why, then, will the government not be allowed to make a concrete model proposal for what the government itself said on 31 March? I simply do not understand that; frankly, I do not understand it. For then, as I see it, it is only an attempt to create a conflict out of something that is not a conflict. I therefore hope that the alternative, in the same positive spirit as the alternative rapporteur started the speech with, will wait and see whether we are not serious as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516215929	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516215931	I just thought I was very clear in my receipt to the Minister for Justice when I said that I can read that there is actually something about it in this action plan. But I also believe that there is too much rubber band in relation to how to assess consequences, and I do not think that this is something that should be done behind closed doors in the government. I think it is quite important that we are told this impact assessment. After all, when there are legislative proposals and proposals from the government, until several times I have asked how it lives up to World Goal 1, World Goal 2, World Goal 3 and so on. And every time we are told that there will be an action plan tomorrow, that there will be a plan for how we roll it out tomorrow, or that there will be no consequences at all. So we have to get a tool that we can use when the government is not willing to answer, that is, as it is now, so that it is not just something that is going on behind closed doors for them on the benches over here, but actually is something that we are all part of, so that we can clearly see the consequences of the legislation we are making.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516220025	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516220027	But the action plan has just been presented a month and a half ago. So, I also think that we should have just a little respect for the fact that the people's regime is also forced to have good government practice in relation to what is being made of concrete things. The action plan has been presented one and a half months ago, and now it is time to create an implementation model. Frankly, I think that is normal, so there are fair rules of play and they say: OK, let us look at the implementation model, and if we disagree with it when it is presented, then we can make various proposals. But wait and see.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516220058	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516220102	I also started counting the days we have left to do this in. Some 500 days have been spent on a plan of action, and now we come up with a concrete proposal. And I really would have liked the government to be so accommodating and not conflicting that they actually said: thank you for the tool we take with us. You could have chosen to do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516220127	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516220142	The debate is open and I give the floor to the Minister for Children and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516220210	Thank you. The alternative and Enhedslisten have tabled motion for a resolution No. B 119, which obliges the government to propose before the end of 2017 a law amending the relevant rules of the Children's Law and amending the practice of defining the gender of parents on the basis of the legal and hence on the basis of the self-chosen sex. The motion for a resolution emphasises that there are parts of Danish legislation which do not respect and accommodate the choices of trans-nationals. One example, according to the proposers, is the rules of the Children's Law on Parenthood. Let me start by saying that this is a relevant issue raised by the proposers. I would also like to point out that a person's desire and ability to become a parent are not necessarily influenced by the fact that the person has made a legal change of sex. The legal gender change legislation is based on a declaration model. The model implies that transpersonals can obtain legal change of sex without requiring surgical or other gender-corrective treatment. This means that a person who has received a legal change of sex will continue to have his biological sex and that the biological sex can be used in accordance with the wishes and preferences of the person concerned for example to have children. In addition, it is also possible for a legal gender change person to use assisted reproduction, including a donor, if the person cannot or does not want to use his own biological germ cells. Thus, there are more opportunities to become a parent, even after a legal change of sex. For me, it is important that the legislation supports the many different family forms we have in Denmark, and that also applies to who is a child's parents. The primary purpose of the Children's Act is to establish legal parenthood, including the determination of a fatherhood or a parenthood of a child. In addition, the children's law is based on the basic Roman legal principle of mater est, which provides that the woman who has given birth to a child is to be regarded as the mother of the child. And in law it is directly regulated that the principle also applies when assisted reproduction is used. In its structure, the Children's Law is based on the use of both a sperm cell and an egg to make a child, even when assisted reproduction is used. And the sex used to propagate is thus decisive for legal parenthood in the law. The replacement of a donor or the subsequent change of the legal sex of a parent does not matter. And thus, the children's law allows a man or a woman who does not give birth to a child to become a parent as a parent and as a mother. Therefore, the rules of the Children's Act do not prevent a person who has carried out a legal change of sex from becoming a parent, regardless of whether the person uses his or her own germ cells or donated germ cells. The children's law is designed in such a way that the rights contained in the law include: is derived from the sex of the person concerned, that is, the sex of which they have been used to propagate, and this gives a firm legal basis. As an example, the mother can raise a case of fatherhood and co-motherhood before the child is born, that the mother has a duty to inform who is or may be the father or co-mother of the child, and that a man who has had a sexual relationship with the mother has the right, as a starting point, to know whether he is the child's father. Before the Danish Parliament adopted the law allowing for a legal change of sex, an inter-ministerial working group had been set up to deal with the importance of a legal change of sex to the provisions of the Children's Act on paternity, maternity and co-maternity. There the working group recommended to maintain the starting point that the biological sex of the parents at the child's conception determines their designation in the sense of the Children's Act, and I have also recently explained this in a written reply to the Parliamentary Equality Committee. The recommendation of the Working Group has thus been followed and no changes have been made to the Children's Act as a consequence of the possibility of obtaining a legal change of sex. I have been informed that when a person applies for a legal change of sex, it is the CPR Office's procedure to acknowledge receipt of an application for a legal change of sex and at the same time to attach written guidance and information to the applicant, among others. The following can be seen: "Your legal status as a parent of a child under the Children's Act does not change even if you change gender. In the sense of the Children's Law, you have the sex that you use to propagate, and so it is the biological sex of the parents at the child's conception that determines their role in the children's law as either parent, mother or co-mother. A person who gives birth to a child, regardless of whether he is legally a man, will be regarded as the mother of the child within the meaning of the Children's Act. The authors of the motion find it a pity and imperfection that we do not go all the way and ensure that the rights follow in all parts of life in a slightly different way: if you have said A, you must also say B. However, it is now the case that a person who has made a legal change of sex has not gone all the way to changing sex. The gender has changed legally, while the biological sex remains unchanged. And it contains the children's law, just as the law contains other family patterns when it comes to determining who is the child's mother, father or co-mother. The children's law is based on the biological sex, which is still the focal point when making children. It may be a little traditional and probably a conservative approach in a modern world, but it provides a well-known and clear basis for who are the child's legal parents and what rights they have. And this supports the consideration behind the rules of the Children's Law, namely that the child has two legal parents. In addition, a legal gender changer has the opportunity to switch back to its original sex. If the legal sex becomes decisive, it could give rise to changes in legal parenthood with a lack of continuity for the child. I would like to make it clear once again that the legislation does not prevent a person who has had a legal change from becoming a parent. And basically, I believe that the legislation contains diversity and supports the variety of family forms that we have here in Denmark. At the same time, the current state of law gives the necessary predictability and legal basis, taking as its starting point the sex that can be used to have children, that is to say the biological sex. I have talked a lot about law, and I do, because the Children's Act lays down the legal community. But something quite different is what you call yourself at home and what kind of family you are. Today, children grow up in many different family constellations and manage to navigate them, and law often does not affect the child. On the other hand, it is the daily care and love of parents that determine the child's best interests, and parents are free to call themselves according to their legal sex, by their first name or by something quite different. We cannot and must not interfere. As has also been indicated by the Ministry in connection with the introduction of the possibility of obtaining a legal change of sex, the Ministry will monitor developments in this area and continuously assess the need for clarification or amendment of the Children's Act. Against this background, the government cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516220909	Thank you. There are brief comments, and the first questioner is Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516220914	Thank you. There is something I need to explain first. This is what you look at the biological sex because it's what it takes to have children. But how can that make a man a co-mother? That is simply what I do not understand. A man in this case, which is the one we have raised here on the basis of, is recorded as a co-mother, because one looks at the biological sex, and I do not understand at all that the Minister cannot see the totally unfairness of the legislation on which it is now based, and I would really like to try to get the political attitude on that without it being hidden behind so many words. Because it's about a man standing there who can't be allowed to be a father to his child, but has to sign on as a co-mother. This man can't use his physical sex to have a baby because a donor has been used because this man can't biologically produce sperm.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516221023	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516221024	There's nothing to stop you from calling yourself a father. You can call yourself Dad. That is also what I concluded by saying, and there is nothing in the legislation that prevents you from becoming a parent. What I am concerned with is to ensure that the child is safe, and I came up with a number of different examples of where it is that we use the law when we go in and assess the child's best. It is, for example, when you determine a fatherhood and when you determine a motherhood. That is why the Children's Act typically has two legal parents, and it is in a sense that gives parents both rights and obligations. I support this very strongly, and that is why it is not the intention of the government to go in and change those matters.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516221120	Does the questioner have a follow-up question?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516221124	[Sound emission]... of course also sat and read on this report from the Working Party on Legal Sex Change, and in paragraph 9.3.1.1.1. on the principles of the Children's Act it says as follows: "Fatherhood and maternity are regulated by the Children's Act, where the concepts cover the legal relationship between the child and the parent concerned and not necessarily over the genetic parenthood. When I read it, it is very clear to me, and I simply cannot see what stands in the way of us calling it what it is, that is, when a man has had a child, he calls himself a father.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516221200	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516221201	In fact, I remember the debate on the legal change of sex. I myself was rapporteur then and also remember the working group that was set up and the report that was made. After all, there are far-reaching reasons for maintaining the children's law from a biological point of view, that is to say, that you have law as your starting point. It is precisely to ensure the child and also to give the parents rights and duties.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516221242	The next question is Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516221245	Thank you. The minister is talking about how this is about securing the baby. But now we have seen a specific situation, a specific case in which what we can see is the consequence of the legislation, is that the child does not have the two legal parents that the child could otherwise use, because a man who is legally, socially and visually a man cannot legally be allowed to have a fatherhood, and that means that the child's rights in the law are not guaranteed. For example, if the child's mother dies, who is the child to be associated with? There the father in question does not have any rights because the law is linked as it is. So the Minister must be able to see that the specific case which has given rise to this proposal shows that we do have problems in terms of guaranteeing the rights of the child to two legal parents. Does the Minister not recognize that this is a problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516221355	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516221356	In fact, I believe that it is a balance and also an appropriate balance when the children's law is based on the fact that legal parenthood is based on the biological sex. I mentioned three examples, for example, that the mother can raise a case of fatherhood and co-motherhood before the child is born, that the mother has a duty to inform who is or may be a father, and that a man who has had a sexual relationship with the mother can have the test of whether he is the child's father. And I'm not willing to compromise on that. I believe in the importance of ensuring that the children's law guarantees the child two legal parents and that it gives these parents both rights and duties.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516221442	I would ask you to remember to re-press yourself if you would like a follow-up brief remark. The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516221447	I'll keep that in mind next time. But I simply do not understand the Minister's arguments. For what is it that prevents a man, as in the case in question, from becoming equal to other infertile men in relation to being able to declare a fatherhood? Well, what's the problem? I just don't understand. Because the Minister is trying to make an argument as if it were not possible, but what is the truth, as I hear the Minister, is that the Minister does not think it should be, or does not want it, and that is quite a different argument. So it's not like it can't be done. We already have opportunities for men who cannot have children themselves to have a fatherhood, and that is exactly the same situation we have here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516221537	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516221538	I just have to say that this government is continuing the view of the previous government. After all, it was the previous government that made the law on the legal gender change and where you had this working group. So it's not just this government that has this boundary. So did the previous government.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516221557	The next question is Mrs. Trine Torp, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516221601	Whatever government has stood for one law or another, one can always become wiser. You can always see other gaps in the legislation that you have not been aware of. I am still a little short of an answer from the Minister to something. In the case of a child conceived by a donor who is not already known, no biological fatherhood is to be decided. It is already an anonymous donor of which the child is a product, so to speak. What should be the best interests of the child in relation to the fact that the man who is then cannot become a father?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516221652	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516221653	This isn't about not wanting to get smarter or not wanting to see things in new ways. The aim of the Children's Act is to ensure the child on the basis of the child's having two legal parents. It is therefore important that the law is clear, so that it is clear who is entitled to what and when. And if you start to change the fact that biology is, like, the guiding principle of child law, then it will not be so clear. In addition, we have not even discussed what the consequences will be if you first get legal gender change and then roll it back. I mean, it also leaves the child in a sort of legal state, which I find it difficult to understand the consequences of immediately.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516221752	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516221754	But we have already accepted it with children who are, what can be said, artificially created, that is, when there is a donor inside. And there we have already taken the view that biology is not what creates legal parents. So I simply cannot understand what the difference is when there is a child who is part of a family, of a man and a woman who has always been man and woman and where it is an anonymous sperm donor. Because there you can have a state of law for the child, where there is a father and a mother. But you can't do it in the other case. I just don't understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516221839	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516221840	This is just where I maintain that the government is pursuing the policy of the previous government, by the way, a government of which Mrs Trine Torp's own party has been a part. What is absolutely crucial to me is to ensure that the child has two legal parents and that there is no doubt about the law; that there is no doubt if you want to raise a matter of paternity; that the mother still has a duty to tell who can be a father. If you start to change the law on children so that it does not take its starting point in biology, then there will be interpretation. And I do not believe that we need any more interpretation. In fact, I think we need quite clear and consistent legislation in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516221923	Thank you, Minister. The next speaker is Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516221936	The proposal is about changing the rules of the children's law so that the gender of parents is defined by their legal gender. I would like to thank the Alternative and Enhedslisten for putting forward this proposal, and I can immediately trigger the tension and say that the Social Democratic Party supports the proposal. In fact, we do not believe that this was something we should spend so much time discussing. It should be a perfectly natural consequence of some of the laws we have adopted in the past, first and foremost that in 2014 we provided for legal gender change, but also, as a consequence, that in 2016 we removed transsexuality from the list of mental illnesses. When we adopt such a law as we did in 2014, the remaining legislation should follow. This also applies to the children's law. I can understand the citizens who feel the insulting feeling that it feels offensive to the man who is also legally recognised as a man that he should be registered as a co-mother. I see who the current legislation is bothering. That's why we're even discussing this, so it's because there are some people who feel offended and bothered by this. I have not seen who it is that will be bothered if we take account of those people here, if we recognise the legal gender of people. I just didn't see who it is we're stepping on our toes. If anyone has a bid, they're finally gonna have to bid. But on the part of the Social Democrats there is support for the proposal, that is a good proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516222117	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next is Mrs Pernille Bendixen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516222129	Thank you. The Danish People's Party voted against Law No. 752 on the amendment of the Central Register of Persons, and we did so because we are opposed to legal gender change, and for that reason we cannot support the proposal today either. When Law No. 752, a working group was set up, including: should look at the ethical rules. The following was their conclusion: In the sense of the Children's Law, you have the sex you use to propagate, so that there is no room for interpretation. A change in the law on children will require a radical change in both the law on children and the law on parental responsibility. Among other things: on the basis of the limited number of persons affected by this relationship, it is the recommendation of the working group that the starting point be maintained that parents have the sex they have at the child's conception. As the rules of the Children's Act allow for the possibility of being a parent as a father or a co-mother, we do not therefore believe that there are grounds for amending the children's law. In addition, the Children's Law guarantees the child two legal parents and imposes both rights and obligations on the child. Legally, I guess it's best that the law is as clear as possible. Changing it changes the legal parenthood, which can lead to great uncertainty for the child. Given that, in the case of legal change of sex, guidance is given that the legal status of a parent is not changed under child law by means of legal change of sex, we believe that it is well-informed about the consequences of its choice by obtaining legal change of sex. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516222300	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516222303	Thank you. It is quite true that the Danish People's Party was against this about legal gender change, but now we have a consequence of it. I have also tried to sit here and say yes to something where I actually disagreed with the law, but then there are some consequences where we have to say that we must, like that, make sure that we solve the challenges and problems that may arise. That is what we have here, because a biological man, a legal man who cannot have children, can be recognised as a father. So what's the difference here? That a legal man who can't have children can also become a father?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516222340	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516222342	So, on the basis of what I have to say, I agree with Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist. I feel a bit that something has now been agreed, and one may disagree with that or agree with it. We really disagree, and then we can just say that it is not our job to help clean up the mess. That's how you can look at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516222358	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516222401	We don't talk much about cleaning up. We're just talking about changing the consequences. It is often the case in legislation that there are consequences in another legislation, but it is interesting to hear that you do not go constructively into it to ensure that we have good and functioning legislation. But again: could I just hear what the difference is between a biological and legal man who cannot have children who are declared a legal father and then a legal man who cannot have children who cannot then become a father - in other words, what is the difference between the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516222433	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516222435	I do not make any distinction at all in all these small details, because my starting point is that I am quite simply completely opposed to legal gender change, and I am also fundamentally completely opposed to all these small changes and small differences in interpretations and stories. I'm just wearing the no-hat.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516222450	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Next in line, sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516222500	Thank you. I'm sure you were looking forward to listening to Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen, but you have to settle for me, and I will try to do it as well as possible. It is not surprising that, of course, we support what the government minister has just said from the platform and therefore cannot support the motion for a resolution. Having said that, I am in fact of the opinion that there is a small group of people here who have a life that depends on an identity that means a great deal. As a society, I think we can go a long way to recognise that. I think it is important that the legal channels and frameworks that frame that life should be as flexible as possible. That is my liberal starting point, and it is also the Liberal starting point of the Left. It is because, as a party, we believe that personal freedom is absolutely essential. Everyone has the right to live a life of freedom and go their own way, to choose their way of life, and we do not believe that that right should be changed by gender, identity or, for that matter, sexual orientation. In Denmark there are about 800,000 families of children, and according to Statistics Denmark, we have 37 different ways of being a family. Actually, I think we can be a little proud of that. I know that this is not something that can be put on the frame and table, but I really do think that we can be a little proud of this late evening, when, in fact, cookies and healthy biscuits have been served in the back. That is also why my party and I have sympathy for the motion for a resolution, and I believe that this is a very relevant issue. The problem becomes no less relevant because the target group it deals with is not so large. If we cannot then support the proposal, it is based on the fact that we have not yet reached where we are ready to amend the children's law. I am not sure that this is a decision which is so cast in cement, at least not in such Sicilian shower understanding, if anyone can unlock the reference. The Children's Act, as it is written today, and I am far from an expert, prescribes that it is the biological sex that determines when maternity and paternity are determined. This has been explained here. I am only mentioning this because one might think that this is a rather conservative and outdated starting point, but one might also think that this is the starting point for the legislation we still have and until we choose to change that legislation, and the government is not ready to do so yet, we must also stand firm that these are the conditions within which we operate. I hope that my examination here has given rise to the fact that the rapporteurs who tabled the proposal regard the current rejection as one of the softer kind and with a good deal of sympathy for the ideas behind the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516222808	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516222812	I hear it as if there might be a multitude of positions in the government on this issue and as if there could be openness to discuss it further. At any rate, I heard the Minister in a different way from the rapporteur of the Left. Maybe that's wrong. The rapporteur will then have to correct me. But it is certainly difficult for me to understand from the rapporteur's first part of the speech, which was, as it were, such a review of the liberal view of human beings, why it gives rise to rejection of the proposal that lies here. I really think it is a very simple thing that a man who is legally recognised as a man, acts as a man, is recognized by everyone else as a man, and can also be recognised in the sense of the law as a father.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516222906	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516222906-2	I would like to thank Mrs Stine Brix for mentioning the nice things in relation to the liberal review of human vision. I am now not sure that this is the most optimal review, it is gradually becoming late. In other words, the legislation also takes account of other considerations than sex. After all, the Children's Act has its main focus on guaranteeing the child's right to two legal parents and distributing rights and duties. The Minister explained it more skilfully than I am able to do. Conversely, it is no secret that I personally am a little more liberal in mind than the majority might be. But that does not change the fact that the Left, as a party, naturally backs the government decision that lies in this area, although we are, in fact, open to it when the time and the matter matures, that we are discussing it again.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516223005	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516223007	It may be because it is late at night, but it is a little difficult for me to find out where the Left really stands. But we're gonna have to explore that. Either the rapporteur is a minority in the Left, or the Left is a minority in the government. It's kind of somewhere around there that I can get to. In my view, however, this motion for a resolution also takes account of the best interests of the child. Because we have a very specific problem with the fact that today's law means that there are children who do not have two legal parents because of the law. Does the rapporteur accept this problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516223040	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516223041	I recognise the problem and I have to disappoint. I wish I could make everyone happy from up here, and I also regret if my initial and, incidentally, final part of the reply to Mrs Stine Brix was not accurate enough. The Left is not prepared to support the resolution. We recognise that there may be problems, but we also think that the current form of the Children's Act is important, essential, and we are not ready to change it now. I can't make it any clearer.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516223108	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next speaker is Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516223122	Thank you. We have tabled a motion for a resolution together with the Alternative, which obliges the government by the end of 2017 to submit a proposal for a legislative amendment to the relevant places in the Children's Law and also to change the practice so that the gender of parents is defined on the basis of their legal and thus self-chosen sex. In the Enhedslisten, we have been working for many years to ensure the rights of transsexuals. In any case, I remember resolutions back in 2007, so it was now ten years ago. It has been a work which, among other things, has been done. has been about ensuring that one could change gender legally without having to go through castration first, which otherwise was a requirement in the past. There have also been proposals to ensure that transsexuality is not a psychiatric diagnosis. Both of these things have gradually come through, and we are still working to ensure that people receive proper and respectful treatment in the health service. Nevertheless, there are still areas left in the legislation where transpersonals do not have the rights that they should have in our view. It has come to light this spring that a man cannot be recognized as the father of his child if he was born as a woman biologically. So there is a gap in the law, which means that those children who have either a mother or a father who is transgender risk being without him or her as a parent. These are men who are both legally recognised as men, and their spouses are men who are socially and visually male, but who cannot be recognised as fathers in relation to their children. Of course, the reverse also applies to women. We think that there is an obvious parallel to, for example, infertile men, who can easily be recognised as the child's legal father, even though they have not provided the germ cells that have formed the child. This also has obvious consequences for those children who are thus at risk of their parents not having legal parenthood. That is why I do not understand why the Minister continues to stress that it is for the child's right to two legal parents that the law will not be amended. For we have here an example of the fact that the law stands in the way of the fact that the child has two legal parents. It can have fatal consequences for a child. If the other parent dies, it is uncertain what will happen to the child, who will be given custody and what legal status the parent who should otherwise be recognized will have. We therefore recommend that Parliament vote in favour of this motion for a resolution. If there is any chance that we can get on with this matter by other means, for example. In the form of a report in committee, we are, of course, also open to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516223513	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. And the next is Mrs May-Britt Kattrup as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516223523	Thank you. I just want to say, welcome to the brave new world. We often use the word disruption on IT, welfare technology and technological developments in general, and in recent decades there has also been a disruption of our family patterns in relation to brought together families and divorces, but also in relation to our ability to change gender biologically or, as we have recently introduced it, legally. As we have seen with Uber and the initial criticism of Airbnb, it can be difficult to keep up with technological developments. The system and we humans simply find it difficult to embrace the new opportunities, and this also applies to the recognition of the legal sex of persons in the children's law. What is relevant to the children's law is to ensure the child's best interests and a clear distribution of rights and duties for parents, but is it related to who must be called mother and father in order to grant the right rights and duties? As a starting point, I do not think so. I hope that we will be ready to adapt and adapt our systems and legislation to the new patterns in a way that also makes room for a minority, of course, while ensuring the intention behind the law, in this case the best interests of the child. Unfortunately, at this stage, everyone is not ready to adapt, and that is why, as part of the government, we must vote against the proposal. However, I very much hope that the Minister will be open to further dialogue on modern family patterns.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516223709	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next step is the radical rapporteur, whom I cannot see here. The Radicals are being greeted here. We note that, thank you for that. The next in line is Mrs Trine Torp as rapporteur for the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516223753	Thank you. I just had to find out if I should speak on behalf of anyone other than myself and my party! Thank you to the Alternative and Enhedslisten for putting forward this proposal, which we in the SF agree on is a very important equality issue. As the proposers describe it in the motion for a resolution's observations, the Folketing chose in 2014 to allow people to change their gender legally. In 2016, the government decided, with the support of the Danish Parliament, to remove being transgender from the list of mental illnesses. Both decisions were two major steps in terms of equality and recognition of transpersonalities in Danish society. We in the SF are incredibly pleased with the developments that those decisions reflect, and we believe it is absolutely essential that we have looked through the legislation to see whether there should still be outdated gender understandings and structures that are not compatible with our modern understanding of an equal and free society. That is why we are also pleased that the proposers have just taken the initiative with the proposal today. We share the intention behind the proposal to amend the children's law. Today, the Children's Act only allows you to obtain legal parenthood for a child you are not biologically associated with, if parenthood is linked to the sex you biologically had at birth, regardless of your legal sex. This means, as is also mentioned in the comments on the proposal, that a man who is biologically born as a woman but is legally recognised by the state as a man can only be registered as a co-mother of the child at birth and not as a father. The same applies to a legally recognized woman who was born biologically as a man she cannot be registered as a co-mother. It is only fair and proportionate to the development of society in this area, moreover, that we should have the children's law revised so that the possibility of seeking legal parenthood is based solely on the recognised legal sex of parents. In other words, the SF can back the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516224014	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. We'll proceed to Mr. Knox's office. Orla Østerby as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516224016	Thank you. As a starting point, when the legal gender change was adopted in 2014, the Conservative People's Party was opposed, and that is why the Conservative People's Party is, of course, also opposed to the resolution here today. Before the Danish Parliament adopted the law allowing for legal gender change, an inter-ministerial working group had been set up in relation to the importance of legal gender change in the provisions of the Children's Act on paternity, maternity and citizenship. It was recommended by the working party to maintain the starting point that the biological sex of the parents at the child's conception constitutes their designation in the sense of the Children's Act. The recommendation of the working group was followed and therefore no amendments to the children's law should be made as a consequence of the possibility of obtaining legal gender change. In a case concerning a person seeking legal change of sex, it is the CPR Office's procedure to acknowledge receipt of an application for legal change of sex, while adding a written guide and information to applicants for the following: Your legal status as a father or mother of a child under child law does not change even if you change gender. In the sense of child law, you have the sex you use to procreate with. Thus, it is the biological sex of parents at the child's conception that determines their role in the child's law as either a parent or a co-mother. A person who gives birth to a child, regardless of whether he is legally a man, would be to be regarded as the mother of the child in the sense of the Children's Law. After all, we are in here to touch what is the whole foundation of our families. After all, we are going to touch the fact that the next one will probably be a proposal for neuter. I just have to say that the proposal here is so far-reaching that one can hardly understand it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516224226	Let me see if there is a brief comment. There is. Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516224229	Thank you. If I ask to speak, that is because of the rapporteur's last comment. Because we are dealing here with people whose gender we actually recognise, namely legal gender. This can be compared to another man who is unable to have children and therefore uses a donor, even though he was born biologically as a man. So how can it be so shocking to the rapporteur that there are two men who are actually alike because none of them can reproduce, because they are not producing sperm, and therefore they are using this modern technology, which is called the use of a donor. What's the difference between the two men? Can the rapporteur explain this to me?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516224319	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516224320	I can explain that in that way that the Conservative People's Party was against the legal gender change, and then it stops there. That means that we cannot begin to grade what is called being a man and a woman. It also says here in the paper that you take the consequence. But you don't. You don't take the consequences of the legal gender change. It's just a social security number you change. The authors of the motion for a resolution should also bear that in mind. So it's a social security number you change, and that's all. It's still gone the same human being, except that you've changed the last part of the number to equal, to odd.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516224407	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516224408	The last point, as the rapporteur says, is that I look forward to the Conservatives voting in favour of the future proposal of the alternative on gender-neutral CPR, because then it does not matter whether there is gender on the CPR number. Does this mean, however, that we are expected to see a resolution or draft law from Conservatives which will actually roll back legal gender changes, or how am I to understand this, that one is not really willing to change other legislation to follow the legislation that we have here? Is it because you want to work actively to abolish this opportunity again?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516224442	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516224443	It is the case that a majority voted this through. I have not listened to the fact that there is a majority that will change the legal gender change. So at least it's gonna be standing as it is now. The fact that people's numbers do not distinguish between men and women will basically be a disastrous solution, and that will of course not happen in Denmark either.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516224513	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. I have been informed that Mrs May-Britt Kattrup wishes to speak again for a brief comment. In that case, I will make an exception and give the floor to Mrs May-Britt Kattrup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516224527	Thank you. I'm just really sorry I made a mistake before. I wasn't supposed to say hello to any parties in this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516224537	Thank you for that, then it's settled. Then I give the floor to the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Rasmus Nordqvist. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516224541	Camilla Tved is very pregnant, and while we're talking, her hands are running around her belly in patterns. The child can come anytime, it's her third, and she's a trained midwife, so I don't think she knows. Next to Camilla is Jon, he's the father of the baby, and that's his first. The two have known each other for 10 years, have lived together for 2 years, and in the summer of 2014 they decided to have a child together. They're gonna give birth at home, and he's gonna cut the umbilical cord. The child has been born with donor sperm because, like so many other couples who are challenged by the fact that the man has either too low or no sperm production, they have received help from a donor. In fact, these are the words that start the article that led us to react. It's from Information March 23rd this year, and it's about Jon, who's got legal sex change and is a man, and he's having a child. He just couldn't be the father of this child, but he could be a co-mother. That made us react, and that is why we made this proposal, because it was so absurd when I read the article, and I thought it was simply a mistake in the law. So in the first place, when I talked to the reporter, I thought we'd just call the minister and they'd sort it out. After all, it is an absurd lack of consistency in our legislation that a man can only be recognised as a co-mother because the man is biologically born woman. So we recognise lots of men who cannot reproduce, as the article says, as fathers, when they have used a donor, and the difference is no longer, as it were. It was as short as I thought this case would be, but I can understand today's debate that it is not. I would like to thank the Social Democrats and the SF very much for supporting this proposal, and I would actually also like to thank the Left and the Liberal Alliance for recognising the challenge that we are facing, so that we are actually facing a challenge that we need to look at how we deal with, because it is no longer in my world. There's been a lot of this confusion from the platform about when you can be a father and when you can be a mother, but I think it's really important that we give equality to the law, and we will do that if we change this, so of course we recognise it. Then I will also have to quote again from this report from the Working Group on Legal Gender Change of 27 February 2014, which states that paternity and maternity are regulated in the Children's Law, where the concepts cover the legal relationship between the child and the parent concerned and not necessarily over genetic parenthood. I think it is so clear that it is simply about the law we are making, that is to say the legislation we are making here in the legislature. I very much hope that we can have a good dialogue in committee work, including with the Minister, about this, because we have a challenge, and I think we should be mature enough to solve that challenge. Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516224907	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Gender Equality. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516224920	The debate is open and I give the floor to the Minister for the Elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516224943	Today we are debating a motion for a resolution on the introduction of more permanent teams in municipal home care. B 139 requires the government to submit legislative proposals for phasing in more permanent teams in municipal home care, so that the municipality of the individual home help recipient must assess the number of home help visits to be carried out by the citizen's permanent assistants. The aim of the proposal is, according to the proposers of the SF, that citizens should experience higher quality and coherence in municipal home care, and to ensure that, as far as possible, vulnerable elderly people are always visited by helpers from the same team. The proposers refer to a number of articles and to studies since 2014 on citizens' experience of quality in municipal home care. The articles indicate how important it is for citizens that employees who come to their homes are familiar faces and that the number of employees is reduced as far as possible. On the whole, I would like to start by saying that we must do everything we can to create the highest possible quality of care and care for the weakest elderly. There should be no doubt about that. I also fully recognise that the organisation of home care, including the influence of the individual citizen on help and the number of different helpers at home, is of great importance for the citizen's experience of quality in home care. The fewest possible different employees in the citizen's home will always be preferable. In my view, it should be a perfectly natural goal for both municipal and private suppliers of home care to have the individual citizen meet as few different employees as possible. Known faces create security for citizens who receive home care. And, of course, it is of great importance to the individual elderly citizen that there are fewest possible different employees in the home and that helpers know the habits and routines of the citizen and can find their way around the home. But for me there is such an absolute fact that it is and remains the individual municipal council that is responsible for organising and organising at all times how to solve the tasks of home care with high quality for the benefit and benefit of citizens in each municipality. Each municipal council is responsible for ensuring a good and appropriate organisation of home care, taking into account both the wishes of citizens and local needs. In this context, municipalities must ensure that there are no more different employees in the home than necessary and that the employees who come to the home have the necessary skills. We cannot and must not dictate it from Christiansborg. That would be to move at the essence of municipal self-government, the local responsibility, and that would be a governance in the detail that makes no sense. If we lay down in legislation rules on how municipalities should organise and organise home care, we are losing autonomy, and the government does not want that. In fact, I also find that for several years the municipalities have been focusing precisely on the organisation and organisation of home care, because the municipalities are aware of the importance for the citizens that the number of different employees entering the citizens' homes is as low as possible. That is clear, among other things. also by the 2013 report of the Home Aid Commission. For the purposes of examining the motion for a resolution, the Ministry has asked KL how the municipalities are working today to limit the number of different helpers in the home. KL states that many municipalities work to send the same employee as far as possible to the same citizen when planning the distribution of tasks. However, there are different conditions that will always have an impact on planning and the number of employees who come into a citizen's home. First of all, home care carries out a wide range of tasks, ranging from practical assistance such as cleaning to more complex care tasks such as: wound care. The different types of tasks require different competences of the employees, and therefore there may be different tasks for the individual citizen that will have to be solved by different employees. It can, for example, be done. be that a social and health worker is responsible for the practical tasks of a home, while the social and health assistant is responsible for the more complex care tasks. Secondly, unexpected situations may arise which require a change in the distribution of tasks and staff at short notice. An emergency illness may occur in a citizen, which means that an employee cannot reach his next visit and must ask a colleague to take over the visit. The quality of home care is precisely that of care and care, so that we do not leave a citizen who has an acute deterioration that requires action. Here, of course, there must be sufficient flexibility in planning for an employee to be able to stay with the citizen and another employee to be able to join the next citizen who should have had a visit. But not only the organisation and organisation of home care is of great importance to how many different employees come into the citizen's home. The general development in this area also makes more demands on home care than in the past. Many of the elderly, who today care for home care, have among other things: because of a positive development in health, where long hospital stays have been shortened, more complex care needs than we saw in the past. And this means that more elderly people in their own homes will often need more visits over the 24 hours. At the same time, a more complex disease picture among the elderly means that other and higher demands are made on the skills of the employees in home care. The municipalities need to take this into account, because the employees who come to the citizens' homes must have the skills that are necessary for this particular citizen. In other words, it is the government's view that the municipalities are already working on the issue that the proposal seeks to address with legislation. Let me conclude, therefore, by stating that we must constantly focus on how to ensure the greatest possible dignity and quality in caring for the weakest elderly. And the number of employees that citizens meet at home is of great importance for the citizens' experience of quality in home care. However, this does not change the fact that it is the responsibility of the municipalities to organise and organise home care so as to take as much account as possible of the citizens, also in relation to the number of helpers in the individual home. I do not think that setting targets in the legislation for how many employees should come into the individual home makes sense. It is clearly a municipal responsibility, whether the supplier is a local authority or a private supplier. We're not going to dictate this in this detail from Christiansborg. That is why the government cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516225714	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First it is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516225720	Thank you for that and thank you for the nice reception of the purpose at least. I fully agree that this proposal should not be regarded as an attempt to circumvent municipal autonomy, nor was it intended. But only yesterday we could hear that there are very large differences in what the municipalities are capable of. Some municipalities have the opportunity to offer help often, and other municipalities simply do not have the resources to offer it so often. So there are major differences in what the municipalities have the opportunity to do, and it is, after all, a Christiansborganising. So I would like to ask whether one could still imagine that it would be worthwhile to give a helping hand to the National Association of Municipalities in order to clarify where the challenges are actually in all circumstances and in all citizens to be able to provide help, as far as possible with the same team of helpers.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516225821	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516225822	It is always the municipality's responsibility to prioritize, and that is part of what also matters. So when the questioner asks that there are some who cannot give what is given elsewhere, I would say that everything is about priorities. And this government gives priority to the elderly area, as we have shown both by the Finance Act in 2016 and in 2017. I therefore believe that the individual municipality is best placed to organise the working hours that may be they are the closest to the citizens. And that is why I believe that we should not touch local self-government. I think it's excellent as it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516225902	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516225904	Elders The study of the case shows that it is relatively easier for Gentofte Municipality to offer the elderly a really good care for the elderly than it is for Hjørring Municipality, which has relatively greater problems in providing a really good care for the elderly. And it might well have something to do with what kind of citizens you have in the municipality and what kind of tax base you have. But overall, this is basically just about dignity. In general, should I understand the Minister's speech so that we can agree that dignity also includes the concept of ensuring continuity?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516225940	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516225941	It is quite clear that it is very important for the individual citizen to meet as few helpers as possible. It must, of course, be taken into account. But we also know that there are some citizens who today come home earlier from the hospital than they did in the old days, with great complex care needs, and that means, among other things, if it means, for example. is a citizen who has to be turned around, and if you turn him every three hours and are two to turn around, there are already a lot of people around the citizen. But it is clear that it is a very important thing that there are, of course, the fewest possible employees entering a citizen's home. I would very much agree with the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516230027	Mrs. Stine Brix. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516230030	Thank you. The Minister concluded by saying that it is going too far to set a concrete objective in the legislation on how many employees are going to come into the home of the individual citizen. In this respect, I agree that it would be too detailed to regulate, as the Minister also says. But I do not really read the SF proposal in this way. As I read it, SF can be given the opportunity to clarify later on, so it is about obliging the municipalities to decide how to minimise the number of employees who come into the home of the individual citizen. You do not go in and say exactly how it should be done, but you take a position on it and thus ensure quality. So if the Minister is concerned with the interpretation of the proposal, what does the Minister think about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516230121	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516230123	I think it is very important that the municipality takes this into account, but in connection with this motion for a resolution the Ministry has been in contact with KL, and they say that the municipalities are focusing on this problem of too many people coming from the individual citizen. So this is simply an area on which the municipalities are focused.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516230148	Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516230150	Does this mean that the Minister does not think that there is anything more to come for? So, is it the Minister's view that things are going well as they are today? That is certainly not the impression I get when I hear from older citizens about how many people come in through their door. Then it may well be that KL up at the top says that you have a focus on that, but the reality in the individual's home is often a completely different one. So could the Minister envisage engaging in a slightly more binding dialogue with the KL on how to move forward in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516230223	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516230224	I still believe that it is the municipality that is best to organise working time. There is always room for improvement, and I also hope that as a municipality you will look at how other municipalities do and that you can learn from each other, but I fully recognise municipal autonomy and will not go into it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516230245	We thank the Minister. There are no more brief comments. We are embarking on the rapporteur's round, and that is Mr President. Rasmus Horn Langhoff of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516230255	On the part of the Social Democrats, we have great sympathy for the intentions of the resolution that we are discussing here today. Let me make it clear from the outset that we share the proposalers' intention to ensure better quality and safety in care for the elderly, and here is an element of ensuring this safety and quality, too, how many different employees you have in your home when you need help and care. However, despite common intentions and sympathy for the proposal, the Social Democrats cannot support the motion for a resolution. Social democracy wants to see the public sector reformed. There must be less detailed management on the part of Christiansborg, and instead we must manage on the basis of results and on the basis of a few but clear quality objectives, and here ensuring our older citizens permanent helpers could obviously be one of several meaningful goals for quality. However, as we read the motion for a resolution here, it is not the method or the approach that is being proposed. Here it is no less, but more interference and detailed management by Christiansborg, and we believe that this will be better done locally. Although we can and must learn from each other across municipalities and between public and private suppliers, one cannot say that there is a particular model that suits everyone. It must be up to the individual municipality and the individual home help group to organise home care so that it provides the best quality for the elderly, which they have to care for every day. Finally, I should like to say that I have been in dialogue with the Radical Left and that I have promised to salute them today and to say that they are also opposed to this motion for a resolution with the explanatory statement, less detailed management by Christiansborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516230506	There is a brief comment from Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516230510	It is just short to make it clear that Christiansborg, in turn, is responsible for the Service Act, after all, which defines care for the elderly. Perhaps I could take this opportunity to support what Mrs Stine Brix said a moment ago, namely that this proposal is not about imposing anything on anyone. It's about trying to get a definition of how we actually create the opportunity to get a permanent team of helpers. How do we ensure that citizens can be more confident that it is the same people who come to the home because we know from experience that it experiences the elderly as a part of quality? So when we talk about dignified care for the elderly, could it not nevertheless be an excellent signal from Christiansborg that we would like to support this and that we would like to see what is needed in order for it to be done in all municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516230602	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516230607	Well, you hear that signal today, too, from the Social Democrats. I also heard from the Minister just now that this is important. I also hear it from KL, and I have not met one municipality that has not understood the message here, namely that it is also a quality parameter. But now we have a motion for a resolution under the heading: proposals for a parliamentary resolution on permanent teams in municipal home care. And I can read here that the Socialist People's Party does not envisage that the so-called Gladsaxe model should be imposed on all the municipalities of the country, but that the municipalities should be obliged to assess far more offensively how many home help visits should be made by the citizen's permanent helpers. We cannot support such a formulation because we believe that it is an inappropriate detailed management from Christiansborg. We believe that the problem can be solved better and more effectively where it should be dealt with.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516230703	There are no more brief comments, so thank you to Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff. And we move on to Mr. Jeppe Jakobsen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516230716	Thank you. And thank you to the SF for raising this debate, because it is a real problem that we are discussing today. Too many older people experience seeing too many different faces in their homes within a week. And it is not only for such purely human reasons that it is of course nice to know people who come to your home, but it is also a challenge in relation to the help that you get that every new person who comes to you should learn what help you need. It is time that passes from time one could have spent to help, but which one now needs to spend reading things out. It is also a challenge in terms of flexibility. When you, as a permanent helper, come to the same citizen, you can better see from day to day what help is really needed, and in consultation with the citizen decide that it might be that you might need to spend a little less time cleaning one day because there is something else that is more urgent. A slightly overlooked problem is a security problem. If you read the local papers, you will often find these stories about older people who are being tricked, where the general explanation is that they thought it was the home helper who came. And then you think, how could they not see that it wasn't the home helper? But that is enough because they are used to the fact that there are so many different people coming from home care that they simply cannot keep track of who is really from home care and who is all sorts of others. So for those reasons, and probably more, that I couldn't come up with when I wrote my speech, this is a problem we have to solve. But there it came, and there it came, but I am not sure that exactly the solution described here in the proposal is the right solution to the problem. When you ask the municipalities to consider how many different faces the individual has to see in his home, then the municipalities must also somehow prove that they have made these considerations, and then I can fear that instead of taking the task seriously, they spend a lot of time writing why it is that it is exactly the individual citizen or citizen who should have only a few people through his home. But I'm not gonna do it. 2 The problem must be solved, and we would like to contribute to this in the Danish People's Party. What handles should we grasp, if it should be at an effort via the rate pool, where we have documented the many beneficial effects there are, both for the elderly, but certainly also for the municipality itself, by working with this and they have proven in Gladsaxe that there are effects about it or whether it is more knowledge sharing, or it is an effort that we have to work with in committee, I do not know just on standing foot, but it is certainly something that we really want to work with SF and others who also want to solve this problem, about. It could also be that the government which says that they give priority to the elderly could address this issue with the municipalities in the context of the economic negotiations that have been started. I would urge the government to do that. It will be an obvious topic to address when prioritising the elderly. I have been entertained in the past by the fact that I would like to see the government prove on its own that they give priority to the elderly, so this is an opportunity that has been given to the government. So to sum up: We really want to solve this problem, like along with SF, but this sketch isn't sure we're the right one. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516231204	Thank you, sir. Jeppe Jakobsen. There are no brief comments. So we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516231213	Today we are debating a resolution on permanent teams in municipal home care. The motion for a resolution has been tabled by the SF, and the text that follows the motion for a resolution says that citizens must experience higher quality and coherence in municipal home care. We in the Left fully share that ambition with the SF, but we are far from agreeing on the road to achieving the goal. For the SF has again been tempted to say that a motion for a resolution has been tabled which will put local selfgovernment out of effect and override the professionalism which will ultimately help to ensure both quality and a dignified care for the elderly. A short time ago, SF, with its motion for a resolution B 39, would deprive the municipalities of the possibility of budgeting themselves and giving us the powers at Christiansborg, i.e. de facto abolishing municipal self-government. We do not want to go down that path in the Left. We believe that we have a well-functioning local self-government which we should both be proud of and cherish. SF wants the government to put forward a bill that will phase in permanent teams in municipal home help. The hand on the heart: I find it hard to see that we at Christiansborg are going to class and organise the work that the municipalities are going to do. It is the municipalities that are closest to the citizens, and it is the municipalities that know what the citizens need when and which professional skills best meet the needs of the individual. And I am a little surprised that in SF you have so little confidence in the many skilled employees that you think it is necessary to centralise and delegate workflows to us at Christiansborg. Having said that, it is hardly surprising to anyone that we in the Left have a very sharp focus on the elderly and the care and care that the elderly receive. Do you not think that most people who receive care and care will be happy to see that it is the same staff who show up day after day? After all, you're close to each other in a care and care situation. From my own time as a municipal council member, I know that very continuity and professionalism are strong and essential focal points in the ongoing organisation, and I also know from my many years in the municipal council of Faaborg-Midtfyn Municipality that in the municipality of Denmark the many possibilities and the freedom that the decentralized model that we have in Denmark actually offers are immensely appreciated. We must not put that at risk. Let us now stick to the fact that it is the responsibility of the municipalities to ensure that the municipal employees have the right skills to carry out the tasks associated with a dignified care of our elderly. When I look back on the years that have passed, with an elderly minister at the helm who can focus on the area, yes, I will be both proud and happy. For the elderly area has been given a tremendous and a marked boost. With dignity billions, we have given the municipalities good opportunities to prioritise, for example. warm hands for the care of the elderly. And, of course, the municipalities are using the opportunities that we are putting forward. In 2017 alone, a total of 86%. of the funds went to warm hands. This shows that after several years of a socialist government, of which SF was a part, we can see that the municipalities are thirsting for economics for the necessary priorities of warm hands in the area of the elderly. But for us in the Left, it is vital to bear in mind that there is a clear division of responsibilities between us here in the Folketing and all the good people who sit out in the municipalities. It is not we at Christiansborg who must dictate how the municipalities organise the care of the elderly in the smallest detail. It is our prime task to ensure the best possible framework, while respecting local self-government. And I am concerned with providing good and dignified care for the elderly, both in nursing homes and also in my own home. We in the Left do not believe that the resolution here will contribute to better care for the elderly. On the contrary, I am deeply concerned that the motion for a resolution here, if we make it a reality, could result in elderly care, where the number of staff members in teams takes precedence over professionalism, which, after all, is what must ensure that our elderly are of a good and worthy quality care of the elderly. The Left cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516231646	There is a brief comment from Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516231649	Thank you. The cooperation between the municipal level and the central level is sometimes quite a balancing act, for one thing may be to say that some of it may be a shift of responsibility, and other things may be yes, there is so much. I just want to ask whether the Left agrees that permanent teams of helpers are important for the citizen's experience of quality, as the Elders case has often pointed out by means of numerous studies.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516231717	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516231718	I must be quite honest and say that I do not know the Elders' studies in detail, nor do I know exactly what the studies referred to by the rapporteur are. But I have no doubt about that, and I also mentioned it in my rapporteur's speech that it is important for the individual to see a familiar face. I think most people feel that way. Whether it's care or it's your general practitioner, or whether it's the health care provider, regardless of who you are in dialogue with in the care and care sector, I think it means a lot that it's a familiar face and a person you trust.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516231758	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516231801	If we now believe that the municipalities actually want to do this, but just can't always do it, does it not make sense to help investigate what it takes to make it a reality in all municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516231814	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516231815	Now I do not quite know what kind of experience SF's rapporteur has of the municipality of Denmark. My experience is actually with the knowledge that I have of the municipality of Denmark that one out there is very aware of what kind of care it is, what kind of care one offers to the individual citizen. In fact, it is my experience that quality standards, for example. think about how to provide the best possible care. I think that the interest that has been around the entire dignity billionaire is indeed a very good example of the fact that the municipalities are very concerned about the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516231856	We thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. And we move on to Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516231902	Thank you. I think this is a very relevant issue which the SF addresses with the resolution we are discussing here today. In my view, there is no doubt that knowing the people who enter your home when you receive home care is very important for those citizens who need home care. It means security for the elderly to know those who are coming, but it also means that carers who have to provide home care, whether it is practical help or personal help, can do a better job when they know the citizen with whom they come. For practical help can also serve as an opportunity to look to the citizen, for example. clean or help cook. It is an opportunity to see if, for example, there is any possibility of this happening. are new signs of worsening a disease to be dealt with. You can do so much less if you do not know a citizen than if you do. So both for the safety of the elderly, but also to provide good care, it makes real sense to ensure that as far as possible some of the same home carers come. We know that there are municipalities today who are doing what they can to minimise the number of employees who come with the elderly, but we also know that sometimes it is difficult to make it work together. It may be economics, there is an explanation that one then does not get the work done in the municipality. There is also a problem that many employees in home care are part-time, although they actually often want to come full-time. It also makes it more difficult to plan that it is very much the same helpers who come. So we certainly think it is relevant to look at what one could do to make it more permanent teams that come from municipal home care. There are several of my fellow rapporteurs up here who say that this is contrary to municipal autonomy. In other words, one might wonder why, a few weeks ago, when we made a proposal which was that it should be up to the municipalities themselves to decide whether there should be free choice in home care, yes, the same parties thought that it could not be tampered with at all. One might say that it would also be to add it to municipal autonomy if it were to be a choice one could make for oneself, i.e. whether one would use private actors. In this context, however, it was not at all a question of strengthening local self-government, as it is now called. In the same way, we see that the same parties think that it is quite reasonable for Christiansborg to decide here that dignity policies should be defined in the municipalities, but we do not want to include this theme. I think there is an incoherent argument in this area. Perhaps the reality is that this is an expression of the fact that we, as political parties, believe that there are different things that it is important to ensure in this area. And I have to say that I think it is quite important that we take initiatives which mean that there are not many different employees walking in and out the door. And I actually think that we could do something here on the part of Christiansborg. Whether this is exactly the model proposed by the SF, I think we can discuss it. One could also define that it should be a theme that the municipalities described in their quality standards, without saying that it should be exactly this way. But, you know, the fact that you look up so loud and sacred that now you just want to protect local self-government, I think it's a little hollow when you don't, in other contexts at all, what to say, speak for it. So I would like to say to the SF: thank you for raising the debate. We are very interested in going ahead with it, also in the form of possible models other than those that lie here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516232314	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs May-Britt Kattrup, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516232323	Thank you. There is no doubt that it means a great deal to the elderly and, for that matter, to all citizens, that there are not a hundred seventeen different people in one's home to help. Few home helpers provide security, not only because you get better knowledge of the individual, but also because the helper gets better knowledge of the routines, needs, and desires. The proposal here suggests that there should be only 12 home helpers in three months' time in the eyes of the goose. I think that's still a lot of people. I wouldn't want 12 people to help me at home in my own home. It is really positive that SF focuses on the issue, and I hope that in the future we will see a move towards fewer different helpers for the same citizen. But I don't think we should dictate this from Christiansborg. I want to respect municipal autonomy. I now think so, and I thought so too, the last time SF put forward proposals that would put local self-government out of effect. I feel a little that I often hear reports from the SF, which go against municipal autonomy, and I wonder if SF really wanted to see it lifted. If that is the case, will you not announce how it will work and how much we should interfere from Christiansborg, and perhaps also make a clear announcement as to whether you really want free choice or not? Because I also often feel that there is a great deal of resistance to private companies, and it is a little difficult to have a free choice if there is nothing to choose from. In the comments on the proposal, I quote: "The consequence will often be that citizens switch to private suppliers offering firm help or, at the very least, may fail to receive home care visits because they do not feel that they can influence the extent and organisation of the aid. It looks a little like it's plague or cholera. So either the elderly choose a private supplier or no home help at all. It seems as if it would be a huge accident for SF if the elderly choose a private supplier. This is how it is described, despite the fact that 70%. of the elderly is quite fond of a private supplier. Another thing about this wording is that it emphasizes that the private sector is apparently seen as more stable. Why else would you choose a private supplier? A survey from the Ministry of Health and the Elderly from December 2015 also shows that the satisfaction with the number of employees of municipal suppliers is 68 per cent, while it is 80 per cent. for private suppliers. But for me and the Liberal Alliance, the most important thing is not who does the job or how it is done, but that the elderly are happy and satisfied because they get the help and care they need. A high degree of satisfaction must be an overall political objective. Fortunately, many municipalities provide that today, so the task must be to spread the knowledge and skills from the skilled municipalities to the less skilled. And then we can just measure this overarching measure and not measure and dictate down to the smallest detail. We must allow freedom for skilled employees and skilled management to use their skills and their time to do good and meaningful work instead of wasting their time setting indifferent crosses and instead of having to stress around without having the opportunity to solve the task satisfactorily. The Liberal Alliance does not support the proposal, and this time it is right that I welcome Conservatives and say that they do not support the proposal either.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516232729	It's so noted. Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, Mrs Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516232736	After all, we are hearing the same speech again, a glowing speech for local self-government, and I just think that this is something strange, because Mrs May-Britt Kattrup knows very well that the Liberal Alliance does not care about local self-government when it comes to free elections. There are several who have expressed a desire on the part of the municipalities to decide for themselves how to organise the free choice, to decide for yourself whether to use private actors. There, however, the Liberal Alliance will decide how the municipalities should organise their care for the elderly. Then we cannot just get a recognition from the Liberal Alliance rapporteur that whoever sang about local self-government is highly selective at the end of the day.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516232818	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516232820	In fact, that is not true, I must say to Mrs Stine Brix, because what is right is that we would very much like to see all citizens have as much free choice as possible, and if it were up to us, they had a really free choice. As we have discussed before in this room, the models they now have are not really free choice, because we have just said that as a minimum, the municipalities must have a private supplier and then themselves. So it provides two options as a minimum, and that is because we respect municipal autonomy. If it were up to us to create a purely liberal model, citizens would have a really free choice among all suppliers, but we are not going to dictate that to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516232908	Mrs. Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516232911	Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup has to decide. Does Mrs May-Britt Kattrup believe that the municipalities should organise the care of the elderly, or does Mrs May-Britt Kattrup not think so? If Mrs May-Britt Kattrup continues to maintain that she will decide that the municipalities must use private suppliers in the care of the elderly, she does not believe that it is the municipalities that must organise the care of the elderly themselves. Then it is just in some areas that Mrs May-Britt Kattrup will decide how the municipalities should organise the care of the elderly while she does not want to in this area. This is not, of course, a coherent argument that Mrs May-Britt Kattrup has put forward from the parliamentary platform in this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516232947	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516232949	As I said, if I were to dictate to the municipalities, they should not only have a private supplier, then they should have many private suppliers, so we had experienced a really free choice, but since I and the Liberal Alliance respect local self-government, we have only made a single restriction that says that we want a single private supplier.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516233011	Then it's Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516233014	That was an interesting version of municipal autonomy, I would say. But I'm just gonna deal with the planning part anyway. Local authorities have universal service obligations, and private companies still choose what they want to do for themselves. Very many private companies have chosen only to take care of practical tasks, i.e. something like cleaning every week or cleaning every four weeks or cleaning every three weeks, depending on what the municipalities have of standards in that area. 50% of the practical tasks are actually carried out by private companies today, while only 10%. of the care assignments are solved by the private companies. Does Mrs May-Britt Kattrup agree with me that it is much easier to plan rational and continuous aid for the elderly if we are to deal solely with practical assistance and thus do not have those care tasks that can constantly interfere with planning?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516233118	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516233120	I don't think I quite understood the question. After all, the municipality offers some tasks, and the tasks offered can be offered by companies who feel that they can solve the tasks. Then it is the municipality's job to assess the companies that bid and then choose the one they think can do the best they can. I'm not sure I answered the question. I didn't quite understand it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516233149	Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516233157	I'll try again. If private companies primarily take care of practical tasks and primarily choose the care tasks from which is harder to plan, because you have to keep up with the fact that something new has to happen and needs to go to the bathroom, someone needs some help here and now, and there are a lot of urgent tasks, does the rapporteur not agree with me that it is relatively easier to become popular as a private company because you can plan in a way that allows you to always keep your agreements when you only have tasks that are easy to plan in everyday life?
ParlaMint-DK_20170516233234	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516233235	It is possible that it is easier to do. However, the companies which offer this offer the tasks which they believe they can perform satisfactorily. If they believe that they cannot solve the care tasks satisfactorily, then the companies do not offer them. So you will always have the best companies to carry out the tasks. And the municipality always invites in. Each time there is an invitation to tender, the municipality must offer itself, and if the municipality can solve it better than the private company, yes, then the municipality must have the task. But if that is not the case, the private person will get the job.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516233316	Thank you to Mrs May-Britt Kattrup. There are no more brief comments. We move on to Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516233322	Thank you. As several rapporteurs have said, this is, after all, a proposal which addresses something that is important, namely how many people, as older people, come into contact with through the care of the elderly in their daily lives. We basically believe that there is a need for a fight with that very standardised approach, yes, the industrial society logic that prevails in the older sector, where we treat people a little on assembly lines. We should stop doing that. We believe that opportunities should be created to accommodate the individual and that we are making the right solutions for the individual elderly. We do not support the proposal as it stands here because we believe that it is interfering with what has become a mantra from up here, municipal autonomy. We believe that it is out there in the municipalities that we should do it. What we could take seriously from in here is to create a proper framework so that there is real municipal autonomy and so that municipalities could choose to address this challenge if that is what makes sense for the individual elderly. That is probably where the task is most important, as we see from the point of view of the alternative. It is actually setting up a proper framework, also in economic terms, so that local authorities can really find solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516233444	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist. Then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516233451	Thank you. Thank you for a good and objective debate. We are talking a lot about dignified care for the elderly, and I think it is important to try to make some concrete suggestions about what that dignity could then be. I've been discussing a lot of outsourcing of care for the elderly with the Minister for the Elderly. I have also noted that there is some way to reaching agreement in this area. Yet it is actually the very same discussion that inspired this particular proposal. The Minister has repeatedly stressed that many citizens choose private companies because they can offer their citizens permanent helpers. I fully agree with the Minister that regular helpers are important for many older citizens. Indeed, it is so important that I think the Minister should consider how we can ensure that all citizens have permanent helpers, whether they choose a private company or whether they choose municipal home help. It almost goes without saying that it's just safer if it's your own home helper who's on duty. It can be extremely cross-border to rely on home help. In addition to helping the very personal things, it is not difficult to imagine that it can be unpleasant when others have to go into drawers and cupboards, perhaps without being able to join in. In time, however, most overcome the barriers as mutual trust is established between the helper and the citizen, but this naturally presupposes that it is about the same helpers who come to the home. It is quite true that the general reason for the elderly to choose a private company in the care of the elderly is firm helpers. Private companies are so aware of the perfectly reasonable desire that they often even advertise with that advantage. And precisely because it is so reasonable, it is also reasonable that we in the Folketing should discuss with each other why it is not right that every home care user could rightly expect to be satisfied because it is simply more worthy. As a number of rapporteurs have already mentioned, I also think that the municipalities would very much like to do so here. And when they have not long ago guaranteed the same rights for all citizens, there is probably also an explanation for this. Of course, there is a difference between how much continuity can be created for the individual citizen, depending on whether you get practical help every three weeks or you have 24-hour care. However, to the extent possible, I think the municipalities believe that the quality of home care can be improved in that particular area. It is therefore also paradoxical that a number of municipal politicians and leaders actually point to the law of free elections and forced competition as a factor in the continuity of sometimes giving way to rationality. Don't forget that more and more municipalities also point to budgets as a contributing factor. We measure so much else, so why not also see continuity as a quality parameter? For this is and remains a prerequisite for the success of the close health care system. Prevention in itself presupposes a thorough knowledge of the citizen concerned. It is therefore easier to see the changes if you know how the citizen normally feels. In the same way, however, security is also a very important prerequisite for how the citizen himself handles ills, prognostic sufferings, etc. Knowledge of the staff who may have to carry out more and more tasks in the home slowly, but surely, is important, and the situation is just easier to deal with if you are comfortable with the people who come to the home. If you are a little insecure about your own situation, it is safe and good that there will be some that you can turn things around with. It's just easier to work together on the citizen's own terms if you know each other well. It is simply easier to encourage a citizen if you know the background to the situation of the citizen. I would very much like to thank the rapporteurs for their positive attitude towards the aim of the proposal. I am pleased that we agree far along the way that continuity and quality often go hand in hand. For SF, it's not important how we achieve those goals. We are also open to other ways of achieving the same results. So I hope that we in the committee can try to continue working on finding good solutions to the fact that continuity is also a definition of quality in care for the elderly. Thank you very much for the debate and have a good sleep.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516233917	Thank you to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170516233928	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday, May 17th, at 9 a.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
