ParlaMint-DK_20170126100007	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Finance (Kristian Jensen): Bill no. L 115 (Proposal for a law on additional appropriations for the financial year 2016). Minister for Education (Merete Riisager): Bill No. L 123 (Proposal for a law amending the law on the education environment of pupils and students and the law on primary education. Susanne Eilersen (DF) and others: Bill No. L 124 (Proposal for a law amending the Act on the election of the Folketing. Bill No. L 125 (Proposal for a law amending the Act on the election of the Folketing. Kirsten Normann Andersen (SF) and Jacob Mark (SF): Motion for a resolution No. B 58 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a systematic reduction in the number of unnecessary rules and administrative burdens for public sector employees). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). I should like to inform you that the motion for a resolution tabled in paragraph 8 of the motion for a resolution tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Eva DemocratsFlyvholm and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group
ParlaMint-DK_20170126100123	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126100143	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 26 by Nick Hækkerup (S), Søren Espersen (DF), Michael Aastrup Jensen (V), Henrik Dahl (LA), Martin Lidegaard (RV) and Nase Khader (KF), and voting is possible. The vote is over. 89 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF) voted against 9 (EL), abstained 11 (ALT, SF and 1 (RV) (by mistake)). Proposal for adoption No V 26 has been adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 25 of Nikolaj Villumsen (EL) and René Gade (ALT) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126100256	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are three proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 27 by Søren Espersen (DF). The vote is over. In favour of 24 (DF), against 85 votes (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF). Proposal for adoption No V 27 is rejected. The vote will then be taken on the motion for a resolution (Doc. V 28 by Dan Jørgensen (S). The vote is over. In favour 35 (S, SF and 1 (EL) by mistake) voted against 73 (DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV and KF), abstained from voting 1 (EL) (by mistake). Proposal for adoption No V 28 has been rejected. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) V 29 by Johanne Schmidt-Schmidt-Nielsen (EL), René Gade (ALT), Sofie Carsten Nielsen (RV) and Lisbeth Bech Poulsen (SF). The vote is over. In favour of 24 votes (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 86 votes (S, DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 29 has been rejected. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126100511	The debate is primarily concerned with the proposed amendments. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendments has ended and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126100537	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1 and 2 by the Minister of Taxation as adopted. They are adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126100551	The negotiations then concern the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the bill? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126100556	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 101 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstentions 9 (EL). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126100627	The debate is primarily about the proposed amendment. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendment is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126100657	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1 adopted by the Minister for Health. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126100706	The negotiations then concern the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the bill? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126100712	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 111 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126100746	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126100824	The debate is open, and that is Mr. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party. Since we now have a rapporteur on the platform, we need a little more calm so that we can hear what is being said. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126100849	Thank you, President. What we have to decide today are four major issues in the draft law: alcohol funding, licensing boards, age of holders of grants and age requirements for young people's employment. Firstly, the draft law deals with alcohol appropriations, including the length of the appropriations, the possibility of withdrawing the appropriation and the composition of the budget boards. In relation to the length of the authorisation period, it is proposed that it be set at 8 years, with the possibility of limiting it to 4 years or 2 years. The argument is that traders must avoid bother and trouble with applications over and over again. The Social Democratic Party can see that there is a need for an appropriation to be at least two years old and that it will give companies some tranquillity so that they can plan for the future and that it will reduce some of the trouble that businesses have. However, we believe it is important to be aware of whether the proposal removes the grant boards, the police and others the necessary handles to influence and perhaps completely stop any stray vessels in the industry. That is why it is a good thing that there is a softening in relation to easier access to administrative withdrawal of an authorisation. So with regard to the draft appropriations, we are largely positive and will see how it will work if it is adopted. We reserve the right to learn more from the experience of authorities and neighbours of grant holders in the coming years. If it works, yes, it is good, but if it doesn't work, we should be responsive here in the Folketing and see if it needs to be changed again, so that we get the right balance for the benefit of authorities, citizens and industry. Secondly, there is the proposal for the grant boards, that is to say, that they should be extended by two expert members with a knowledge of law and business economics. It would be quite reasonable for more expert people to come into the grant boards to help ensure the legal situation and ensure better assessment of the business economy of applicants. But it is also important to listen to the scepticism of the KL, namely that it can be difficult to recruit qualified people to the names when they have to do so free of charge. According to KL, the consequence would be that some municipalities would have to close the licensing boards and have the municipal council decide on the granting of alcohol. I believe that this would be an inappropriate development, as the members of the municipal council will not have the same degree of expertise on the distribution of appropriations as a jury works out. Therefore, it was perhaps an opportunity for the Minister to listen to the KL's suggestion that it be done voluntarily to expand with two expert members. Thirdly, the draft law deals with the age limit for authorisation holders and any managers. The proposal is to reduce it from 25 years to 21 years and from 23 years to 18 years for young people who have completed training in the hotel and catering sector. Immediately, we can support the possibility for young people to start up as entrepreneurs in the industry, but it is my clear view that this must not be at the expense of safety and responsibility in nightlife. I therefore believe that the Minister should pursue the proposal from Denmark's Restaurants & Cafeer that the law in this area should be evaluated after a short period of time. And should the evaluation show that security and accountability come under pressure, I think that the law should be reviewed. Finally, fourthly, the draft law is about reducing the age requirement for young people's employment. In the Social Democratic Party we can easily see that it is inappropriate that young people who have a summer holiday job in an amusement park or a strandcafe cannot serve a beer together with a burger or sausage and ice cream for the Danish family. It is a hassle, and we agree with that. On the other hand, we must be very careful to open up so much that we suddenly have young people down to the age of 15. 21.30 at Bakken or in restaurants around the city. We believe that, unfortunately, the proposal has not found the right balance between the pragmatic and protection of young people between 15 and 18 years of age. I recognize that the government has tried to bring in possible problems, i.e. that it is about working between the hours. 6 and 22, that food should be served at the restaurant and that it should be under the supervision of an adult while the young people work. My position on this part of the bill is that, despite the Government's attempts to get the problems in place, it is a step in the wrong direction. It is a break with many years of prevention, where there has been a broad consensus here in the Folketing to ensure that young people have to debut alcohol at as late an age as possible. The later a young person begins drinking alcohol, the more likely he or she is not to have a problem with alcohol later in life. I must also say that I think the government should listen to the Cancer Society, the Medical Association, the Children's Council, Alcohol & Society, 3F, LO and Wine and Spirits Organization in Denmark when they agree that it is a step in the wrong direction to let 15-18-year-olds sell strong spirits in restaurants. Finally, I would like to say that the Social Democrats share the desire to make it easier for the industry, but that unfortunately the government has not found the right balance in the legislative proposal as it is now before us. There are parts we can support, but unfortunately, from an overall assessment, we cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126101359	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126101409	The bill we are discussing here is a follow-up to a political agreement concluded in February last year between the then Left Government and the Conservative People's Party and the Liberal Alliance and the Danish People's Party. As the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party has pointed out, it contains a number of different clarifications and amendments to the existing budget and restaurant law concerning, among other things,: age of authority, etc. In the Danish People's Party, we are of course positive about this proposal. We are part of this agreement, and we really think that this proposal is a very good step in the right direction, because some tasks are put in place so that it is easier to handle. We just want younger people to have the opportunity to work, get extracurricular jobs, etc. We fully agree that it should not be a discussion about whether young people in 15 years of age should sell shots in Nyhavn and sell strong alcoholic drinks etc. But I think it is fine in the draft law that we make it clear that these are places where alcohol is not a large part of turnover and that it is typically family restaurants and places where you do not typically get drunk, to put it bluntly. With the clarification of the age of majority, we will get some other parts into the legislation. I think it is sensible that we should now have a fixed period of 8 years. Then there is the possibility in the legislation that the local grant boards can make a limited period of funding of either 2 or 4 years, depending on the assessment of the individual grant boards in each municipality. We also think in the Danish People's Party that it is sensible to lower the requirement to be old to be able to obtain a licence as the holder of the licence or as the manager of a licence. In particular, it is gratifying, I think, that we are being made clear that, for vintages as low as 18 years, it is of course provided that it is young people who have completed and completed training in the hotel and catering sector which enables them to qualify for such authorisation. In the Danish People's Party we may think one should be a know more critical on the question that there should be a lawyer or determined lawyer as an expert member on each grant board. I fully understand that there are a number of municipalities in which we have a great many grant boards, which are complicated, cases of night grants and all sorts of other things. But we also have very many municipalities where we have relatively few grant boards, simply because they are not municipalities where there is much going on in the night life etc. It would therefore be common sense for us to maintain the possibility of not starting to upgrade with extra expensive links. Thus, the municipalities should not pay for legal assistance other than the assistance they, for example. has lawyers with their own employees in the central administration of the City Hall. So there are some places where we need to clarify this in the proposed legislative proposal. However, the Danish People's Party fully agrees that this bill should be adopted. We also think it is a very good change, which allows young employees, as I said from the start, to be allowed to fill more so that they not only stand out in the kitchen and do kitchen work, but also get to work inside the restaurants. We recognise that some people have been concerned about this, but I think we should start from the letter of the law. So there is no reason to be as worried as some are. This is not a wildcard for young people under 18 to serve strong drinks in Danish bars and beverdinger. Actually, it's the other way around. At the same time, the law also states that it must be under expert guidance, etc., and that there must always be adult staff, i.e. staff over 18 years of age, present in each place. But in the Danish People's Party we think it has been wrong that you have not been able to get youth work in Djurs Sommerland, for example, because there has been an opportunity to buy a beer on the establishment. It has not been possible to have young workers employed. It's something that's being given the opportunity with this bill. We fully agree that it must of course take place in a proper framework, that it must be under control and that it must also be with so-called adult experts, i.e. some over 18 years of age, who must be responsible for it every day. However, we believe that when an evaluation is carried out at the same time, we are on safe ground if there are some places where, in some people's opinion, we should go too far. Then we will have to respond to what follows. But overall, this bill is quite reasonable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126101956	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are some comments. First, it's sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126102001	Thank you. And thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I am very surprised, in fact, that the Danish People's Party does not listen to the very, very serious warnings given by a number of health professional organisations. There is no protection against the fact that, as the rapporteur says, you can stand in a restaurant in Nyhavn, which also serves food, but where people can easily wait before noon. Twenty-two can be very, very drunk. We have previously been presented in the Enterprise Committee with figures showing that in terms of working conditions in those places 70% have. by the employees experienced being shouted at, 40%. has been threatened, 60%. has witnessed assault and 35%. has had to take action against violence. It is therefore the working environment that the Danish People's Party will accept to put young people between 15 and 18 years of age right in the middle of. I simply do not understand that. Can the rapporteur not explain why this can be accepted? I certainly did not think that the Danish People's Party could contribute to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126102101	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126102104	Well, I'd like to try to answer that. In other words, this bill opens up the possibility of having young workers on the other side of the counter in some places, so that they not only have to stand in the kitchen but can also do work such as cleaning, cleaning, etc. inside the restaurant section. I don't really think there's anything wrong with it. We fully agree that we should not have a situation where young workers are selling shots down in Nyhavn, Virgo Ane Gade etc. This bill clearly states that these are companies in which the sale of alcohol is a small part, not a significant part, of turnover. Then it can always be discussed when it is, and there must be a legal assessment of this, i.e. how to deal with it and how to give these appropriations. But we think it is sensible as it is, and we also think that young people benefit from getting out and doing something. And we don't believe that's what Mr. Pelle Dragsted has a presumption that this should be a slippery path against compromise with Danish health and safety standards etc. There's no way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126102214	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126102215	It's nothing, sir. Pelle Dragsted says it is something that a number of very competent organizations in Denmark point to. It is not exactly someone who belongs to either the right or the left, they are just professionally skilled. I cannot understand why the rapporteur is sticking to it with Nyhavn and shots. That is exactly what is possible. The restaurants in Nyhavn have food service. It doesn't just say that the young people can clear off, it says that there may be some talk of serving strong drinks it's well under supervision, whatever that means; it just means that there's an adult at work. There is no guarantee whatsoever that young workers will not be exposed to very, very violent working conditions which are not at all available to young people at that age.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126102256	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126102257	If you look at the bill and in the comments on it, you can see that it says: "It is suggested that these young people can be opened up in the period 6.00-22.00 to deal with cleaning, cleaning and cleaning work or serving strong drinks under the supervision of adult staff at serving places whose main purpose is serving food and where the serving of strong drinks takes place in connection with it. The reduction in the age requirement has been made in accordance with the Labour Inspectorate's rules on, inter alia: location of working time, etc. I think it's quite clear in this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126102331	Then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126102334	That's exactly what it doesn't say. Well, you try to wrap it up to be under the supervision of an adult, but as Mr. Pelle Dragsted says, it just means that at the other end of the bar there is one over 18 years and also longs tequilashots over the counter. If the rapporteur has ever been to Virgo Ane Gade or down in Nyhavn just 8-9 pieces a Friday or Saturday night, he will know that there is quite a lot of work going on. I do not know whether the rapporteur thinks that 15-year-olds should be in an environment where people get very drunk and may change behaviour, that is to say that some young girl in 15 years of age has to stand and long shots over the counter; and that is exactly what the bill opens up. So my specific question to the rapporteur is: should it be that there are some companies, some restaurants that want to pay children's children's wages alone, trump the fact that we are protecting young people between the ages of 15 and 18 from being in an environment where there can be very, very drunk people?
ParlaMint-DK_20170126102433	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126102434	The rapporteur is now putting a lot of money into it when it comes to child pay. Child pay? Could it not also be called a young person's salary? I know that Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen himself belongs to a party which in here on several festive occasions actually wants people to vote as 15-year-olds because young people are so mature and so on. and we must therefore, of course, follow all recommendations from the Danish Youth Council and give them the right to vote as 15-year-olds. Then we are not dealing with children; they are young people. That is why I am a little surprised that the SF has so divergent views as to when you are a child and when you are a young person. When it fits into your own political agenda, you are a child, and that is child labour. But when it comes to acquiring democratic rights, you are young. In the Danish People's Party we actually believe that you are young when you are 15 years old.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126102526	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126102527	Now we have never proposed voting rights at the age of 15, but leave it at that. After all, it is also a matter of ensuring that duties and rights are respected, and here we are talking about young people working at significantly lower wages than adults. And it is clear that the industry has an interest in being able to expand the workforce by some who cost much less. This is what this proposal is about: that you would like to have some more young workers who not only do as was the case when I went to high school as 15-16-year-olds can stand at the dishes or lubricate sandwiches, but who can also come into the bar and work with serving tequilashots. That's exactly what this proposal is about. I would therefore like to ask again: would the rapporteur rather follow the interest of business in being able to pay a low young wage than to protect young people from very drunk people?
ParlaMint-DK_20170126102622	It is always good to start with the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126102624	Perhaps I also think that the legislation currently in force should be taken as a starting point. Section 27 of the Restaurant Act states that young people under 18 must not at any time be employed in serving rooms, wardrobes or toilets during opening hours at serving places serving drinks with a percentage of alcohol above 2.8, i.e. an ordinary beer. It may well be that you think that it is perhaps a bit too tough legislation to have in today's Denmark. In fact, we believe that in the Danish People's Party. We fully agree that there should not be such a wild west state, even though SF thinks it is fun to claim that it will be so, and I am well aware that SF has an interest in drawing a picture that this would mean that it will be the only 15-year-old who will stand down in Nyhavn and swing shots over the bar. We do not believe that at all in the Danish People's Party; that is not what is going to happen at all. It is just going to happen that we will have better conditions for young workers in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126102718	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen has been up here twice, so we move on to Mr. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Henning Hyllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126102727	But has it not come to the attention of the rapporteur that there may in fact be an interest in obtaining cheap labour, that is to say, that business interests are given greater weight than those of the working environment in this situation? In other words, if you read the consultation answer from HORESTA, I think it is quite clear that it is an attempt to weight some business interests in terms of providing cheap labour for the industry. And on this occasion we are looking so much at, if I may say so, that young people aged 15-18 are being placed in a very, very hard working environment. Sir. Pelle Dragsted also pointed out earlier in his question how hard this work environment really is. Is it therefore the case that the rapporteur is prepared to sacrifice the working environment on the altar of cheap labour?
ParlaMint-DK_20170126102831	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126102833	After all, all new legislation in Denmark will be reviewed, and if there is any of what the rapporteur says, which I do not believe at all, then this is, of course, a situation that needs to be addressed in the context of updating the law. However, I should just like to remind you that the legislation we have today does not take into account a situation where we want young people to enter the labour market also where there is typically the possibility of a leisure job. This has nothing to do with Nyhavn and what else is being outlined. This has something to do with the fact that we have family restaurants in Denmark, where we cannot allow young people under the age of 18 to go out in the serving area; they can only stand out by the dishwasher at the restaurants, in Jensen Bøfhus and Flammen and in all sorts of other places. These are the places where we have young workers who want to work and who want to work, for example. in Djurs Sommerland. Neither should they, because they may then be standing in a place where a beer is also bought for the family's father or mother who is on a family trip. Or it may be the Danish barbecue bars or other places where you may also have an alcohol authorisation, but where alcohol does not constitute a significant part of the turnover. These are the places where it has happened.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126102944	Sir. Henning Hyllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126102946	Yes, but the working environment in the restaurant industry is so hard and that's why you've had the boundaries so far... that it just means that this is a job for adults for adult pay. There are so many situations to be dealt with, full people to be handled, sexual harassment etc. etc. Sir. Pelle Dragsted has previously mentioned many of the facts. Of course, this suggests that it should be handled by adults. I would like to ask the rapporteur how to distinguish between the different types of restaurant. It is very good to say that food must be served and that that is the purpose. But at many of those restaurants that serve food, it changes during the evening. When you have something to eat, you also need something to drink, and you stay at the restaurant. And then that situation arises. So young people between the ages of 15 and 18 are present.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126103040	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126103041	Yes, and so they are under the expert guidance of so-called adult staff over 18 years of age.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126103048	Thank you. Then it's mr. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126103051	Thank you, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby for a good speech. I do not, of course, agree with the conclusion, but the Danish People's Party is in the agreement, and I understand that the Danish People's Party is going to vote in favour, but I am pleased with the speech, because I think the rapporteur has a good balance in saying that we have a problem in amusement parks such as Djurs Sommerland, Fårup Sommerland, LEGOLAND, where it must of course be possible for these young people to be able to serve a beer to a family father who may need it after a whole day with the family in the amusement park. On the other hand, I also hear that the rapporteur is suggesting that if the law does not work as intended, that we do not protect the young people well enough, then the Danish People's Party would like to take part in looking at whether we should re-make it again. So my proposal to the rapporteur is: should we try to get written into the law, that we should have an evaluation after a short time, so that we can sit down together and look at what the experience is, and then we can get the right balance in the legislative proposal, so that perhaps there are also some more parties that can back this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20170126103150	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126103151	Now the rapporteur says a short time. You can always discuss what a short time is. Sir. Thomas Jensen also knows that sometimes it is a short time, sometimes it is a long time. Anyway, I think it would be perfectly obvious that we have an ordinary evaluation of this law after two years. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126103206	Sir. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126103207	Yeah, that'll be a comment. I would just like to sign that if we can agree on that, then the Social Democrats could support this part, i.e. that there will be an evaluation after two years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126103216	Thank you. And thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126103230	As the previous rapporteurs have explained, this bill stems from the agreement on growth and development in all of Denmark that the then Left Government entered into with the Liberal Alliance, the Danish People's Party and the Conservative People's Party in February 2016. It was a coinage of the money agreed in the 2016 Finance Act to ensure that we have a Denmark in better balance and create some more growth, especially in those areas where growth has lagged a little. There were a lot of very good proposals that we put forward, and this is one of them: more liberal rules in the area of catering legislation. I know a lot has been said, but let me try to do that super card. It makes very good sense that when you apply for an alcohol allowance, you have a guarantee that that allowance will be valid for a longer period, instead of having to apply for it every six months and perhaps every six months or every year. If you, as an entrepreneur, are to start up, it is probably difficult to convince your bank or other source of funding that you have to invest and have to borrow if your alcohol allowance is only 12 months old. Therefore, it makes very good sense that we extend the period, so the starting point is that it is 8 years and that, if it is to be shorter, there is a minimum limit of 2 years. This should lead to less bureaucracy, less paperwork and thus also provide a better framework for our business community and for entrepreneurs. The composition of the appropriation board is proposed to be amended with the extension of more qualified members, and this should ensure a higher quality. Finally, if you are trained in the field, we will reduce the age requirement for the grant holders from today 25 years or 23 years to 21 years and 18 years if you are trained in the field. We have reduced a large number of age limits over time, and so it makes sense that an age limit which has not been adjusted since, I think, 1957 is set so that people and especially young people are put down for good reasons, when it is the age limit in the part of the scale that we are looking at do not have to be hampered by age requirements, for which it is difficult to see the logic and justification. Then there is, of course, the part which has perhaps attracted the greatest attention: we are relaxing the rules on what young people between the ages of 15 and 18 must deal with in the restaurant and restaurant areas. I therefore belong to those who have experienced many who have found it rather strange that if you had a dishwasher of 17 years standing in the kitchen and there was pressure at work inside the restaurant, you should not send in the dishwasher and pull out the dishes. I think that has been far too restrictive. That is why we propose to relax the rules, so that 15-16-17-year-olds also have to deal with rooms where alcohol is served, if it is only important to stress it. It is a place where the main purpose is serving food, i.e. at a very common well-known restaurant or café where people enjoy a meal. So young people should have the opportunity to remove dishes, clean, accept orders, and also pour a glass of wine or pour a beer. As I think the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party said, today we are in the absurd situation of our amusement parks, for example, that if you in the sausage stall, where you linger French hot dogs over the counter, also have a fad beer facility from which you can serve a beer, then you cannot stand there if you are 17 years old. I think it makes a great deal of sense for us to have something more reasonable and more logical in these rules. And again: there is therefore no freedom of speech, which is something we are somewhat impressed by in the debate. It is within certain periods from 1 p.m. 6 to 22. There must be an adult person present, and that is therefore within specific categories of places, namely where the main purpose is to eat. I think it makes very good sense for us to relax the rules, create a better framework for people who need to have an alcohol allowance, and allow young people to also work in a place where alcohol is poured out in connection with food serving. So a very sensible proposal, which we look forward to voting in favour of by the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126103736	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126103740	The question is the same as that of the previous rapporteur: does it not at all impress the rapporteur that important organisations, the Medical Association, the Combating Cancer and others, say that it is here to put young people in dangerous situations; that this will act directly against the desire, even from a political point of view, to have limited alcohol consumption, because Danish young people have a European record in drinking? Doesn't that make an impression at all? If we are so inclined to take account of business interests, other social considerations which are concerned with public health, but in particular those relating to the protection of young people, for example. to be subjected to sexual harassment or violence, do you just set aside?
ParlaMint-DK_20170126103831	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126103832	In the Left, we always read with interest the answers to the hearings that come. There are always some people you agree with and some people you disagree with. Otherwise, perhaps there was little reason why we had a place like the Folketing, where it is the political opinions that, like in the end, have to decide how to view the individual things. Motif research is difficult, but it seems to me rather like an automatic reaction that any relaxed approach is clearly bad. Some of the things that lie in some of the consultation responses, I would also be able to recognize if it were the case that there was a free hand. But no free blow is given. There is, in fact, I think that the parties behind the agreement have thought about, and I think it is fair that, at 17 years of age, a glass of wine can be poured out in a restaurant where the main purpose is to serve food if there is an 18-year-old or older person present and that happens in the period at 8 a.m. 6-22.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126103941	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126103942	But this one with boundaries in the period at 1 p.m. 6-22: I think the rapporteur has tried to be at a restaurant in Nyhavn, for example. on a summer afternoon or during Christmas lunch. It's not like people are embarrassingly sober. On the contrary, it is being dealt with. I think it is rather uncomfortable that the rapporteur should continue to talk about a 17-year-old who can serve a glass of wine. Because what the previous rapporteur said was that with these rules a 15-year-old can actually long shots across the counter in Nyhavn. That's the consequence of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126104015	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126104016	I think there is an underlying trend in the issues that have been about any rule on working conditions being disregarded with this. No, it has to be 21.30, and whether it is 15, 17, or 19 years old. I hope, then, that we agree that there must be the same protection regardless of age.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126104050	Sir. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126104051	Thank you to the rapporteur. I think that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, opened up that as part of the conciliation circle he would like to see this amendment of the law evaluated after 2 years. So my question is to the rapporteur of the Left, whether Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen, also on behalf of the Left, can indicate from the Speaker's Chair that the Left is also interested in evaluating this scheme to see if we have protected the 15-18-year-olds around the Danish country with this change of law.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126104119	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126104120	I always think it is natural that we follow the legislation to the end so that it does not end at a third reading here in the Folketing, and so that we also keep an eye on what the consequences will then be in the reality that it affects. If what it takes for the Social Democrats to see themselves in this bill and to back it up is for us to agree on an evaluation in advance after two years, we would very much like to reach out on the Left side.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126104146	Sir. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126104148	Let us look at how we are going to cut it subsequently here in committee. But at least I think it is important that there is an evaluation of this bill after a few years, so that we can see how it works. As I have said, I, along with many of my colleagues, am quite sceptical about some of the measures, but I can also see that we also need to be pragmatic in some areas. So let us see what we can come up with in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126104212	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126104214	I would like to sign for the approach that was reflected in Mr. Thomas Jensen's rapporteur's speech, where I could hear a report that he can see that the government has tried to take these balance considerations into account. I think they've fallen right out. I understand that the Social Democratic Party is still in a predominantly position. I will then take those discussions constructively in committee. If an agreement that we follow up on this after two years can be decisive for the Social Democracy saying okay, they would like to join, I think it would be beautiful for the work of the people's regime.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126104253	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we shall postpone the sitting for a few minutes, only a short time, because we have some technical problems. There are a lot of people on the screens who cannot hear what is being said. They call in and protest, and that is really very positive. So that's what we're gonna have to make up for, so you can hear Mr. Knox. Pelle Dragsted. I'm sorry about the others, but we just got to know now.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126110120	We'll try again and hope we succeed. It's sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126110137	Thank you very much. Today's debate is about changes in the catering law. Unfortunately, what I see has happened, and as often happens to this government, is that you listen very much to the wishes of the business community. It's actually okay. You have to. The problem is simply that one forgets to listen to and take on the many other fundamental social concerns that may be at stake. It's very clear, I think. That is a pity, but unfortunately it is a general picture of the policy of this government. After all, we also saw it with the agricultural package, which, for the sake of industrial agriculture, rolled up and ran over a number of very important environmental and biodiversity considerations. In this case, unfortunately, we have also chosen to ignore some very crucial problems and choose not to listen to very clear warnings. It is, after all, a question that has been discussed here about removing the ban that exists today on young people having to work on the supply of strong alcohol. We talk young people down to 15 years. After all, the bill says: "It is proposed that these young people be opened up for cleaning, cleaning and cleaning work, or serving strong drinks under the supervision of adult staff within the period 6.00-22.00... Then the bill states that this liberalisation should only take place at servers where people are mainly fed, but where the guests can also get alcohol for their food. That's why it's been interpreted here as if it's limited, and it's Sommerland Zealand and the kind of places we're talking about. The only problem is that when you read the bill, you see that it is by no means ensured that this is the case. There are a lot of places, cafes, restaurants where there is food serving, but at the same time there is a tavern-like environment, and the two things are not mutually exclusive. There are many places where you can buy individual dishes, but where otherwise the place would be characterized as a bodega or pub, where there are thus drunk customers much of the time. Let me take an example. It could be a pub, for example. serves lunch and fish and chips Saturday afternoon, where people are going to watch a football game from the Premier League. We know that there is plenty of beer being drunk, and it is far from the majority that is orange-free when it is 17-18 pieces. How do you characterize this place? Does it fall under the category dining area, or does it fall under the category bar? It is simply unclear in this bill, and therefore it does not in any way protect the young workers from having to deal with drunken and cross-border guests. When the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party says that this is not an opportunity to stand and long shots over the counter in Nyhavn, I would actually venture to claim that it is wrong. This bill opens up the possibility that young people up to 15 years of age will actually be able to stand and long shots over the counter in Nyhavn in restaurants that also serve food, which is the majority of places in Nyhavn. But it may be that the Minister can clarify whether it is me or the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party who is right on that point. Why is it a problem for young people down to 15 years of age to serve strong alcohol and be at a workplace, how many are affected by alcohol? It is because it is simply a hard working environment. There are statements that show what people are exposed to. 70% has been yelled at, 40%. has been threatened, 60%. has witnessed assault, 35%. has had to take action against violence. Another widespread phenomenon is, unfortunately, sexual harassment, perhaps even abuse, which we know is more prominent when people have had a lot to drink. It is simply a dangerous working environment. This is not a working environment for young boys or girls down to 15 years of age. That is why we have had a ban on it and we should stick to it. We agree that the government wants to reduce the burden on business, but there must also be limits, and this is where we enter an area where young people are exposed to dangerous situations. That is why we cannot support the proposal. I really hope that the Danish People's Party in particular will think carefully. I am also surprised that the Conservative People's Party can help to support this proposal, which will of course increase alcohol consumption among young people and which will put young people in dangerous working situations.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126110625	Thank you. Mrs Pia Adelsteen, Danish People's Party, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126110628	I just have one question. Because, as I am hearing the rapporteur, I understand that the problem with the proposal is that young people can have an opportunity to serve. Does the rapporteur also think that it is a problem if young people are allowed to clean up? Now I am the owner of a lunch restaurant where we have young people washing dishes, but it still takes us adults to run around carrying things out. It's also fine, but sometimes it's busy, and then it would be nice to have some of these young people or the one kid that we have to go out to remove the empty plates and also the beer glasses that people have drunk after all. Does the rapporteur think that this is a problem? Because when I ask, it is because we also have young people sitting at the cashier's checkout in the local consumer associations, where the local alcoholic goes in, taking two cold in the box, well enough they aren't buttoned up and going up and paying. But I guess it's a long beer over the counter, too, isn't it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170126110723	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126110724	Unfortunately, I have not visited the rapporteur's establishment now that I may have the opportunity to do so in the future, but it depends entirely on what kind of place we are talking about. That's the problem with this legislation. It's not just the sausage shop in Fårup Sommerland. This opens up that young people can work in places where people are very drunk, even when it is 5, 18, 19, 20 or 21, because the criterion is whether food is being served. So there are many places where food is served, but there are still very affected people, even early in the day. That's what we think, and it's not just the Enhedslisten. After all, it is everyone who understands the alcohol habits and working conditions of young people who warns strongly against this. I think it's pretty amazing that you're overwhelmed in that way. We talk the Cancer Combat, we talk the Medical Association, we talk Alcohol & Society, which so much has the red warning flag up.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126110824	Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126110825	I just think that the rapporteur does not answer my question. Is it the serving that's a problem? Or is it that there are drunk people who are a problem? Is it the cleanup that's a problem? If you're sitting by the box, you can get drunk people into the Use I've seen that before in the real world. If it's in the Folketing, it's in the Press Office, what do I know? Well, there are drunk people in many places, but there are also many places where young people work and where things are actually going quite well. So I don't quite understand the reason for the reservation. There are, after all, adults nearby, adults who can intervene; that is the whole essence of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126110903	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126110904	However, the reservation is due to the fact that there is a reason why we have had the legislation we have had so far. It has been about protecting young people from getting into dangerous situations. When I specifically mention drinking, it's because I think there's something grotesque about you not being allowed to buy alcohol at a bar when you're young, but being allowed to pour it the other way. I think that sends some very confused signals to young people. But in addition to that, there is cleanup and uncovering. Yes, if you enter a barroom where there are many very drunk people, then you are exposed to some risks that young people should not be exposed to. That is why we have the legislation we have today. That is why all organizations with an understanding of this are shouting at the changes that the Danish People's Party will unfortunately help to vote through unless you come to a better view.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126110955	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126111005	Thank you for that, President. It is a very good bill that we are dealing with first here today. This is the result of the growth agreement concluded last year. The bill leads to less administrative trouble and removes completely unnecessary bans in the catering industry. Today you are not allowed to work in a restaurant that serves alcohol if you are under 18 years of age. So you are not allowed to serve sandwiches in the restaurant if you are under 18 if you can also buy a beer at the same restaurant. This does not make much sense, and I think it is a scare-mongering that is being put up by the left in connection with this bill. The bill also lowers the age limit for obtaining a restaurant allowance from today 25 years to now 21 years and down to 18 years if it is the case that you have a training in the hotel and catering industry. If at the age of 21 you have a good idea for a restaurant concept, you must, of course, be able to start up such a concept even without having to bring a 25-year-old on board. The bill also ensures that the length of time for these meals will be improved. It has sailed around, there have been very different practices. Restaurants have been given too much, very short time, and this of course makes it difficult to find investors when there is a great deal of uncertainty as to how long you have such a grant. Now it becomes 8 years as a starting point. We think that is very sensible. So this is a good bill. The proposal that young people should be able to work on a restaurant if they are under 18 years of age, even if alcohol is being served, is in fact a proposal that the Liberal Alliance included in the growth negotiations, and that is why we are very pleased that it has been included in the final proposal. So, of course, we can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126111254	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126111304	Thank you. This bill is quite wide-ranging, and there are many aspects to what we in the Alternative think is really positive. When I had to present it to the group meeting this morning, I took myself to argue both for and against with almost the same arguments, and it also means that we are in a position where we are not going to be able to state conclusively yet where we stand. I would like to take these three points very briefly. Point 1. There have been many good considerations as to what the draft law contains, but above all we think that, if it is said that the grant period should be at least 2 years or 4 years, there is a reasonable consensus in that, in relation to those who invest in running a business, there will be best opportunities for their investment to have some certainty in the years ahead. The arguments that this is problematic in relation to the fact that the municipalities are able to keep the supervision that is now required may in fact be seen as something that needs to be done in an amendment, or a period of attention, because then we must make it easier for them to go in and correct in relation to the individual company, because, as a matter of principle, we think it is right that this period should be extended so that there is no uncertainty that comes some imbalance where, in the interests of safety, a short allocation is granted. It's not constructive. Point 2. Here we are dealing with reducing the age of those who have to run this type of business. We had a very difficult time finding arguments for this to be a bad idea. Nor do I think that there is anything in the answers to the hearings that means that in the alternative we cannot support it, but on the other hand I think that it is a sensible idea from the Social Democratic Party with a • and now we hear that the Danish People's Party was also involved in the introduction of a period in which an evaluation was made afterwards, because there may well be elements of it that turn out to slip away. It is some young people who have a lot of responsibilities, and perhaps there are also some places in some cities and areas of cities where it will affect the local environment to a degree that may be problematic. So we are going to propose that, in relation to paragraph 2, as I call it, an evaluation period should be introduced. Then there is paragraph 3 with the possibility that 15-18-year-olds can work in the environments where alcohol is also served. Isolatedly, I don't really think that's a problem. I do not necessarily think that it is a problem for a young person who already often sees alcohol consumed and drunk that one works in such a place in isolation, but I just think that we have a culture in Denmark where drinking and drinking for the most part is a very, very common thing. It is not because we have to change society, but I think we should be careful not to support this development at least not escalating. In fact, I think it would be very healthy to stand as a political party and say: let us think. Perhaps we could be a little admonished and say, "Watch out with that alcohol culture." It may not help anything to make such campaigns, but when we make legislation, I think we should support that it should not be something that escalates. Furthermore, we do not think it is necessary to support the fact that so young people go in and take jobs from perhaps many other groups who could just contest these jobs. We do not see the need for more jobs for young people. It is strong when people go out and invest in working from a young age, but if they take the jobs from someone who could otherwise have gotten them, also in peripheral areas where there may be such a need for some jobs to become available, then I think there are several elements that are critical here. So we would very much like the bill to be divided, so that the last item here on the 15-18 year-olds is split from the rest, because we are probably not going to vote in favour of this. The hearings, as we also heard Mr. Pelle Dragsted review, from the health professional organizations and HORESTA, I think is quite strong in relation to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126111708	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Ida Auken, the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126111713	Thank you very much. The Radical Left is in favour of giving the catering industry better conditions, and that is why we think that the part relating to the length of the authorisation period is good. It must, of course, be ensured that the two years do not allow much fewer people to start something, so we will ask about that here in the legislative process. Then the opportunity for more young entrepreneurs to start business in the catering sector will be improved by reducing age requirements. If you have an education, they can go all the way down to 23-18 years, and if you do not have an education, then it is 25-21 years, and we think that is very sensible. Then there is the question we have discussed very much today, and when I listen to the discussion, there is actually quite a broad consensus that it is okay that people work in Djurs Sommerland or in Legoland or who serve as I myself have done for many years in my life. I think I've been a waiter for 10 years and maybe even broken the law, I can figure out if it was valid in 1998, but there may be a limitation period. At least I've been serving beer when I was under 18 without it being really dangerous. So that part sounds like we agree, so you can have a job, whether it's the cafe in Grønnegårds Theatre, Djurs Sommerland, or wherever it is, it can be all sorts of places. But we really do not want there to be 15-year-olds and long shots over the counter down in Nyhavn and in Virgo Ane Gade. There are two ways to do something about this. The first is, as we shall try to do in the committee's work, to ask more questions about whether we can include it even more in the wordings that are available. It says, among other things, that it is only places where there is a limited risk of dealing with full people. Could it be tightened even more so that the risk is not there at all? It also says it has to be under the supervision of an adult, and it says it is 06-22. But is there any way of capturing it even more so that we avoid young people ending up being really young workers? If it then turns out that it is safe to do so, I think that the Social Democrats' proposal to carry out an evaluation, for example. After two years, is good, so you can see if this has led to more 15-year-olds and long shots standing over the counter, and so you can see if it is being exploited to have cheap labour in some of these places, because that is not the intention of the proposal, and that will have to change. So with these comments we are in favour of the proposal, but we would like to have this part more fenced in before we can say whether we are voting in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126111958	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126112002	Thank you for the last remarks about seeing whether a step can be taken towards greater protection for young workers. I think that is a positive indication. I hope that means that the bill cannot be accepted as it stands, but perhaps the rapporteur can clarify that. I would just like to know whether the rapporteur is not generally more impressed, for example. The Medical Association writes that the proposed amendment to the law has been carried out for professional reasons, while health reasons are generally absent. They also write that 15- to 17-year-olds are exposed to work situations involving contact with drunken people, which result in the risk of injury, and that it will probably also lead to a previous alcohol onset and a higher alcohol consumption, that is, generally only works against the desire in this Parliament that Denmark may not maintain the record as the country where young people have their earliest alcohol onset and the most massive drink.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126112105	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126112106	Of course it makes an impression, it always makes an impression to read the hearing answers. There are also consultation responses from Alcohol & Society and others who are worried that it is going in this direction. Then there is also an assessment from the other side which says that it will not necessarily do so and that it is not the intention of the proposal, but that is why we are asking: can we include it even more so that we meet that concern and can we possibly ensure an evaluation? Because as I hear the whole parliament, it is not the intention of this proposal, so that it should allow you to stand in Nyhavn and deal with totally drunk people at 20, 21, 22 in the evening.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126112138	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126112139	However, the rapporteur believes that the proposal as it stands, for example. opens up that you can long shots over the counter in Nyhavn at a restaurant until kl. 10:00?
ParlaMint-DK_20170126112154	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126112155	Well, that depends on how you interpret not having to deal with drunk people. That was exactly the wording that we struck down as to whether it is sharp enough, i.e. whether it is, like, fenced in enough. We will use the work of the committee to get the exact answer to that question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126112212	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Then it is the next rapporteur, Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126112225	I would just like to deal with the part of the bill that is about 15-18-year-olds now being allowed to serve strong spirits until 2:00 p.m. 10:00. As we have also mentioned in the past, it can be said that the use of language in this bill, including from certain rapporteurs, has been that now we have to give young people an opportunity for this type of work, that is to say it is a service, a hand-out, one must understand that the 15-year-olds now have to long tequilashots over the bar in Nyhavn or in Virgin Ane Gade in Aalborg, or wherever it is. So it's almost such a neighborly approach to it, one has to understand, and really has nothing to do with just wanting to give the catering industry an opportunity to expand the workforce to significantly lower wages, i.e. cheap labour. We think this is totally unfair. So, an environment where there are adults who get drunk, where there are fights and quarrels and sexual harassment occurs, is not an environment where 15-year-olds have to be. Then there are various summer lands and sausage cars etc. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: If that were all about it, we could have either proposed a derogation or even more fenced in the bill. And that is the problem for us. It's not about a place where you can buy a sausage and then get a single beer, but it's about the bill in no way prevents it from spreading to the market too, and it comes to some a little tough environments where people are very drunk. And I was supposed to say, at least in the Virgin And Gade, there's a lot of days of partying in the street before 2:00 a.m. 22, and so is Nyhavn, I think. That is simply not fair. We have some working rights for young people in particular, especially young people, and we are discussing everywhere else what we need to do to make sure that young people do not have • and this is the case with some young people • as violent a consumption of alcohol as we see. We are discussing how to ensure young people better at work. For 100 years, we've been doing regular child labour. We have said that there must simply be reasonable conditions for young people when they are in the labour market. And this is just a huge turnaround. I do not think it is reasonable at all, and I also think it is a little shameful to wrap it up as if you would just like to give some young people a chance to earn some allowance. So you can do that in many other ways. I myself worked in a café where, as the law says, the main purpose was to serve food, but it was really going on on on a Friday night at 1 p.m. 9. I was standing by the dishes, smearing sandwiches, etc., and that is something other than standing in a bar and having to long shots over to people who are getting more and more drunk, perhaps more and more unpleasant or rude. I think we have seen many examples of this, i.e. when alcohol enters, things happen. It is not fair to expose 15-year-olds to that, and I really doubt that some of the rapporteurs who have spoken for it in here would think it particularly cool that their 15-year-old daughter should be in Nyhavn or Virgo Ane Gade and long shots to well-grown men who might have had a bit of plenty. So we cannot support the proposal and really think it is a huge step backwards in the fight for decent labour rights in the labour market, especially for young people.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126112621	Thank you. Then there are a few brief comments, first from Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126112625	I have to respond to the interpretation of the bill. I know that the SF, even when we made the agreement, was out to say that as long as you were hanging a cowboy toast over the counter, you could do all this, and there I can understand that the SF has, after all, become a little smarter and recognize that these are places where food is served as the main purpose, and therefore I cannot understand why the rapporteur says that you can then stand in a bar and long shots over the counter. So, where is it in the draft law that the rapporteur can find any evidence that you can stand behind the bar and long shots over the counter, when it specifically says that these should be places where the main purpose is the serving of food and that the drinking of alcohol is done in connection with it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170126112712	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126112713	I am a little confused about the question, because it is clear in the draft law that there must be a main purpose in serving food. There are many cafés, and many cafés also serve beer, but also shots and strong alcohol. So these cafes have some bars, and at the same time they serve a cowboy toast, a salad or a sandwich, there's also gonna be tequilashots over the bar. So I do not quite understand the question, and that is exactly my point: if you want to open up a little to say that in Fårup Sommerland or other places where a beer can be served, you should also have fenced it in relation to it. But now you spread out the track and say that it is from that example to standing in Virgo Ane Gade or in Nyhavn and long shots over the counter, and it also happens at 2 o'clock. 9.30 p.m. and 9.30 p.m. 10:00 in the evening.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126112811	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126112812	I think the rapporteur has deliberately misunderstood this proposal from the outset. For from the beginning, the message from the SF was that in any beverding, where you could understand so little proforma you could understand a cowboy toast over the counter, so that you could hire 15-, 16- and 17-year-olds to stand in a classic bar. And I would like to acknowledge there that we have become more nuanced about what the proposal actually contains. I just think it is a pity that the SF has the approach that nothing should be possible and that everything should be as usual, and you use some a little harsh words. Can the SF not in any way see that there is a sense in the fact that there is a freer framework and that young people can contribute in a restaurant? For the environment that I can hear one speaks a lot of courage, SF thinks is okay if someone is in the kitchen, but not out in the restaurant.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126112914	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126112915	I think this is a very nice way of trying to wrap up, that this is simply an opportunity for the catering industry to expand the workforce with very, very cheap labour. And yes, the 15-year-old will be behind the bar and long shots over the counter. If we take the second example of Fårup Sommerland, or whatever it may be, we should have said: we would like to give some derogations and we would like to focus specifically on what it is all about, etc. It is not a huge problem that young people today do not have an opportunity to stand behind the bar and long tequilashots out, because they can stand out by the dishwasher or lubricate sandwiches or all the other things. It is about progress and not backward steps.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126113005	Thank you. Then it's mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126113008	Thank you, Madam President. I am just reflecting on the fact that the rapporteur mentions, as it were, in every sentence that has been spoken from the platform, Virgin Ane Gade. I do not know whether the rapporteur is receiving electoral contributions from the establishment of Virgin Ane Ga, since they have to be mentioned so many times. But I would like to ask the rapporteur: how many of these establishments on Virgin Ane Gade have as their main purpose to serve food?
ParlaMint-DK_20170126113035	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126113037	That is a rather strange comment, since there are probably some restaurant owners who would think that it would be very good if I supported this bill. It is precisely a question of securing cheap labour for them, and it is a question of young people, for example. 15 years. So if I had ever received electoral contributions from Virgin Ane Gade, I have not, it would certainly be over from today. When I mention it, it is because during my studies, when I was between 20 and 25 years old, I was able to see exactly in Virgo Ane Gade in Aalborg how much people went to it and early in the evening. I just don't think it's fair for 15-year-olds to have to face some very drunk people who may not speak so well and where there are also fights. Therefore, I would just like to say that there are cafes where café food is served, and that goes under the definition set out in the bill and where there is also serving beer and spirits. Then you can discuss whether it's Nyhavn or Virgo Ane Gade or whatever. It doesn't matter. It's about cafes that get a very alcoholic expression at night.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126113150	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126113151	But it does not really matter when the rapporteur constantly mentions Virgin Ane Gade, which we all know is not a place where the main purpose is food, that is, at least those that can be eaten; it is probably typical of those who can be drunk. It's clear in this bill that the main purpose is to serve food. There is my claim, in any case, that by far, by far, the vast majority of people in Virgin Ane Gade do not have the main purpose of selling food. They have the main purpose of selling drinks. That is why, of course, they do not go into this discussion. However, the rapporteur keeps on mentioning Virgin Ane Gade, and this is therefore a deliberate mix of different types of business.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126113230	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126113231	Well, I could also mention anything else, Nyhavn. I do not know whether the rapporteur has ever been to Nyhavn. There are plenty of restaurants, but there is also really, really going on in the evening. And if I had a 15-year-old daughter, I certainly wouldn't want her to stand down there. There are also plenty of cafes on Virgo Ane Gade, and before it is too late in the evening, people sit quietly and eat, in the summer they sit outside, and of course they must be allowed to do so. But it is not fair when the party really sets in and alcohol is poured down, putting young people in that situation. In fact, I am extremely surprised that DF supports this proposal, and I hope that you do it a little because you have already reached an agreement, and then you have to. Because I simply do not believe that it is DF's labour market policy that 15-year-olds should be in some environments that should only be for adults.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126113326	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Anders Johansson, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126113332	Thank you. The Conservative People's Party can, of course, support the bill, which is about changing the rules on catering and alcohol licensing, etc. The draft law, as several rapporteurs have mentioned, is the implementation of the agreement •Growth and development in the whole of Denmark, which was concluded about a year ago. One of the initiatives was to create a modern restaurant law, including: should benefit tourism and experience economy. The proposal then contains a number of facilitations which virtually everyone will help to make it easier for economic operators. For example, it is proposed to clarify that alcohol authorisations should be granted as a starting point for 8 years and then alternatively for 2 or 4 years. I think this is quite reasonable from the point of view of restaurateurs, so that they have clear rules so that they, as traders, can see over a longer period of time and have better conditions for making long-term investments in their business. The same is true in relation to the strengthening of professional competence and legal certainty in the grant boards. One of the very best elements I think is to enable young people to become managers, i.e. to get an alcohol allowance so that young people as young as 18 years of age, if they have a relevant education, will have the opportunity to test themselves as entrepreneurs. I think that is actually a very, very good part of the bill. I also think it is very healthy for young people to try to get started, even early, if they have a good idea. And then it contains a number of other elements. But I have to say that the Conservative People's Party can back the bill in its entirety.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126113523	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. Then it's the Minister of Business. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126113533	Thank you for your many comments. I think it has been a good discussion which, of course, reflects the fact that there is not entirely agreement on the part that liberalises and does the catering industry and tourism and the experience economy a service, by also allowing 15-18-year-olds to serve alcohol in certain circumstances, time periods, if there are adult staff present. The bill that is being discussed today is part of an overall agreement called 'Growth and Development in Denmark', which we concluded last year. An important element was, of course, that we would create a more up-to-date restaurant law, which also contains the discussed amendment to the ban on the employment of young people serving alcohol, as well as the modification of the allocation periods. You have to understand it, I think, in a larger context and take a little interest in the helicopter and then look at what it means in relation to our tourism strategy, what it means in relation to the experience economy, and what it means in order to allow for more flexibility, in relation to the fact that in all parts of Denmark you can also have restaurants where people are served who want to come in to buy some food and get something to drink in that connection. Nowadays, it's outlawed, and Mr. Pelle Dragsted and others also mentioned for young people under 18 years of age to work in restaurants that serve strong drinks. It is the government's view that the provision is inappropriate and an obstacle to the catering industry, which currently contains different types of restaurants. That is why we are changing this so that young people between 15 and 18 years of age can work at serving sites, the main purpose of which is serving. And I think that is important, even in relation to the debate that has been going on here. The main purpose must be to serve food, and the serving of strong drinks must be done in connection with it. I would like to stress that it must continue to be prohibited to employ young people whose main purpose is the serving of alcohol, that is. in bars, discos and the like. In addition, for the sake of young people, we are introducing rules on the location of working hours. It is also a key priority for the government to change the rules for the length of the grant period, as these are important for business and are currently seen as a burden. The proposal for a law is therefore based on the fact that, in future, alcohol appropriations will be valid for eight years, so that there will be more stability and tranquillity around the grant period. It must still be possible to limit appropriations in time, but in order to ensure more transparency and avoid very short periods of appropriations, it must be possible to provide time limits of 4 or 2 years. So, as the Conservative rapporteur has said, there are also very good modernisations of the law here. Because with the bill we reduce the age requirement from 25 to 21 years for both holders and managers. For applicants for alcohol authorisation who have completed training in the hotel and catering sector, the age requirement is reduced from 23 to 18 years. The Government believes that this allows young entrepreneurs to start a restaurant business more easily. In addition, the draft law extends the grant board to include an expert member and an independent lawyer or lawyer. In fact, we believe that there is a need to ensure an increase in knowledge in the grant boards on, among other things. business economy. We also believe that it is important to ensure a greater focus on the applicant's legal position and to ensure an objective assessment of the considerations which form the basis for the issue of alcohol authorisations. I think that the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr. Thomas Jensen, and the radical rapporteur, Mrs Ida Auken, also mentioned this, namely that it is very relevant to be able to see both the advantages and the disadvantages of the proposal. But here we have chosen to say that it is possible to do so under certain conditions. Here we can ensure that young people have opportunities, as it were, to work and help in some sectors where they need labour, while at the same time doing so within a reasonable framework. However, I think it is a good proposal that the Socialist rapporteur has made, namely that we should carry out an evaluation in two years' time. So that's what we're going to take to make sure that we get the consequences of this straight up. I am sure that it will be for the benefit of tourism, the experience economy and the restaurants and also for the young people that we are implementing this bill. But, of course, there may be a bit of a difference of opinion on this, so we will carry out such an evaluation in two years' time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126114008	Thank you, Minister. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126114012	Thank you. There has been a little confusion here during the debate about which places were covered I have disagreed slightly with, among other things. The rapporteur of the Danish People's Party will see if the Minister will clarify it: Is it correct to read in the bill that at a restaurant in Nyhavn, which has the main purpose of serving lunches, Christmas lunches and the kind of things that are now being done in Nyhavn, a young person of 15 years of age will be able to long shots over the counter until 10:00. Twenty-two? That is what the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party said would not be possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126114047	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126114049	What is stated in the draft law that we have agreed on is that the main objective must be food serving; that must be the main objective. It should not be at a café or disco in Nyhavn or Virgo Ane Gade, which is primarily intended to serve shots; then you must not. And the reason we've fixed the time limit from 1 p.m. 6 to 6:00. 22 in a place whose primary purpose is to serve food, is, of course, that the risk of exposure to drunken people must be limited. We have done this because some restaurants and especially amusement parks have announced that they have difficulty finding staff when you have made this age limit so rigid. So it is to make it flexible and give, for example. amusement parks an opportunity to employ young people.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126114142	Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126114145	The question then is whether it is too flexible, because I see the answer as a confirmation of what I am saying, namely: yes, in these places in Nyhavn, restaurants where, for example, there are restaurants. often Christmas lunches, which lie during the time we talk about, the young people will be able to long shots over the counter. Okay, that's it. Then I just have two other questions, and this follows on from some of the initiatives that have been made, among others. from Alcohol & Society. You have two specific proposals on which I would like to hear the Minister's views. One is a proposal that, when you now extend the appropriation board, it also brings some medical competence. That's one thing. The second is that in the context of this legislation a guide should be drawn up for the grant boards. And a number of these health professional organizations are suggested to involve the Danish Health Service, so that health care is also taken into account in this guide. Is that something the government will be prepared to do?
ParlaMint-DK_20170126114237	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126114238	First of all, as to how young people can serve and help to serve alcohol, I would say that beyond the framework of the period from 8 p.m. 6 to 6:00. 22 the availability of adult staff and the other criteria, then the primary purpose of the site should be to serve food. That is why the rapporteur for the DF, Mr. His Kristian Skibby is right. The primary purpose must be to serve food. A primary purpose cannot be to serve shots at night in a disco club; then the young girls and the young boys must not stand there. So it is absolutely crystal clear in the text of the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126114321	Sir. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126114323	As I also tried to explain in my rapporteur's speech, we are actually very much in favour of most of the elements of this. But I also think we can hear from the debate and also from the Minister's reply to Enhedslisten that there are some elements in relation to the points that come up against it that 15-18-year-olds can go in and have their workflows at these restaurants where alcohol is sold and alcohol is not quite clear yet. I think I can say that we in the alternative will not be able to support a legislative proposal in which that part is included, so I shall certainly be much wiser in the course of the negotiations. So maybe it could be an opportunity to split it up so you could say yes to the first two parts and then have this as an isolated part?
ParlaMint-DK_20170126114410	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126114411	I think it is a very constructive approach that the Alternative rapporteur has here, as always, but I see it as a whole. In other words, the proposal is a whole which is about giving the tourism industry and the experience economy better opportunities and creating a sensible framework for young people who will volunteer to work in those places. It is of course voluntary whether they want to work there or not. And then the framework is there in terms of time limits, in terms of adult staff and in terms of the purpose of the places where they work, which must be primarily to serve food. I think we have actually defined it very sensibly there. But I listened to what the Socialist rapporteur, Mr. Thomas Jensen, said that an evaluation would be a good idea, and I think it is. That is why we are making an evaluation, and we can then see if there will be any consequences. I don't think so, but we'd like to see that in two years' time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126114501	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126114502	Of course, I find this very regrettable, as we would like to support the first two parts. Another element I would like to ask is that of jobs. In other words, if you give this opportunity and have the quite significant growth strategy in the tourism industry, there must surely be a great need for labour. That's where I saw a hole, compared to the fact that you might be able to get someone in jobs who otherwise had trouble finding work in Goldkant's coast Denmark. Isn't it a point of attention for the Minister that we might be skewing it? There is no acute shortage of youth jobs, and perhaps they should also have time to study and learn and be young.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126114541	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126114542	But I don't think it's ever gonna hurt any kids to work next to their studio. I did it myself, I had a student job myself, next to which I read. It can be said that I am of course not a good example of becoming wiser but, in addition to that, I think most people benefit from working a little side by side, and my own children also do that next to their school. With regard to labour shortages, what we hear from special amusement parks is that it is difficult to recruit if we do not allow young people to work with older people in places where alcohol is served. In amusement parks, then, the primary purpose is not to serve alcohol. But as I heard Mr. Thomas Jensen, after a hard day with the children, a father can also be allowed to have a beer at the end. I think it is quite reasonable that young people should also be allowed to work in those places.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126114625	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126114628	The minister keeps saying that the primary purpose must be to serve food. But I guess virtually every cafe with food will be able to live up to that. I do not know whether the rapporteur has been down in Nyhavn. There's almost nothing but cafes and restaurants. There's also a pretty wild party life down there. It starts early, especially if there is Easter lunch, Christmas lunch, summer party, everything. Then 15-year-olds can be put in that situation long before 2:00 a.m. 10:00. The same in Virgin Ane Gade. There's also a sea of cafes where the primary purpose will fall within this. So our question is: if you want to do something for Fårup Sommerland all the time, or whatever it may be, why not fence it in? You could also tell them that they have to pay adult wages to adults who have to work with this. But if you do not want to, if you do not want to employ cheap labour, why not take it in and say that the alcohol limit only goes by beer rather than tequilashots?
ParlaMint-DK_20170126114741	The minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126114743	Unfortunately, it is far too long ago that I have enjoyed a cold beer, whether it is Nyhavn or Virgo Ane Gade. So my own personal knowledge of it is not great, because I haven't had time for that in a long time. I think we should be careful not to be too rigid in the perception that, because you are 17 years old, you cannot work in a place where alcohol is served in the period from 5 p.m. 6 to 6:00. 22, where, after all, the primary purpose is still to serve food. It's not a disco where they sell shots and other things. The primary purpose is to serve food, and there are adult staff present. I think that is a sensible framework for that. This provides a good opportunity for both the young person and the restoration to have a good relationship with each other for the benefit of the customers and for the benefit of the development of tourism and the experience economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126114838	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126114840	There are plenty of jobs for young people, especially because they need so much less pay. There are plenty of jobs in the retail and food shops and also in the catering industry for young people. So it's not because there's a shortage of it. On the contrary, as Mr. René Gade said, maybe there might be some adult people who need a real job for a real adult salary that could handle these things. But my question again is quite specific: why not take it in if we have to find a compromise and say that the limit goes by beer? I mean, that fad in Fårup Sommerland. But it's not all the way up to tequilashots a lot. Would the Minister be interested in that? Then those fads in the summerland can be included.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126114926	The minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126114928	I think we have struck a very reasonable balance, which also means that we have a time limit from 1 p.m. 6:00 a.m. until 6:00 a.m. 10:00. My own experience is that most tequilashots are longed over the counter after 10:00. I think the young people tend to go very late in town. That is why I think that the rule we have made now is that it is from 1 p.m. 6:00 a.m. until 6:00 a.m. 10:00 p.m., p.m., p.m., p.m., p.m., p.m., p.m., p.m., p.m., p.m., p.m., p.m., p.m., p.m., p.m., p.m., p.m., p.m., p.m., p.m., p.m., p.m. The rule also means that the primary purpose is food serving and that there must be adult staff present. This means that the risk of being exposed to intoxicated persons must be very limited.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126115010	Thank you. Then it's mr. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126115013	Thank you. That is more of a comment than a question. I would just like to acknowledge that the Minister is sensitive to the fact that we want an evaluation after two years. And it is just gratifying that we can have such good cooperation on a proposal in which, incidentally, we have some disagreements. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126115026	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126115027	I'd like to sign for that. I'm glad we can talk about things too. Of course there will be things you disagree on, but we are trying together to reach agreement on the things that will benefit Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126115039	Thank you. There are no more comments and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. Are there any comments? It's agreed. I'm gonna postpone the meeting until 2:00 a.m. 13.00.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126130000	The sitting is resumed. As previously announced, item 8 of the agenda has been deleted. We are therefore addressing paragraph 9.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126130014	The debate is open and I give the floor to the Minister for the Environment and Food.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126130031	Thank you for that, President, and thank you also for the Enhedslisten and the Alternative, which wish to establish a national coastal council with its own fund. The proposed Coastal Council shall be entrusted with the task of carrying out an overall priority of coastal protection and, in cooperation with the municipalities, prioritizing and coordinating local coastal protection efforts. Finally, the Coastal Council must free purchase land with high natural value, threatened by more frequent flooding, and convert it into nature. The government does not believe that the proposal from the Enhedslisten and the alternative is the way forward, and therefore the government also rejects the resolution. The government does not believe that a coastal council with an associated fund is the right solution to the challenges that everyone can see we face after the storm Urd in the Christmas days, and the storm river at the beginning of the new year. The government does not see a need for a coastal council to coordinate and prioritise local coastal protection efforts. Firstly, the government's position is that the coastal analysis, which came out last year, has given us a national overview of where the need for coastal protection is greatest, and the coastal protection law already contains criteria for where and when coastal protection can be established. Secondly, the task of coordinating and prioritizing local coastal protection efforts already lies with the municipalities in cooperation with the Coastal Directorate. It is therefore the government's assessment that a coastal council will simply add an extra bureaucratic link to the process. We have just adopted a joint amendment to the law before Christmas, in which the purpose, among other things, is: was to simplify the process. In the view of the government, an additional bureaucratic link will not result in any more comprehensive solutions. With regard to the establishment of a coastal fund, the government maintains the principle that the landowner is responsible for protecting his property in the coast, and today the municipalities can also decide to contribute financially to a coastal protection project. The 400 million. kr. proposed for the area via insurance companies does not appear to be based on a socio-economic assessment of a specific need, and the government cannot support a proposal based on uncertain assumptions. We've done a lot already. I have mentioned the coastal analysis and the amendment of the coastal protection law, which provides a better framework for municipalities to implement holistic solutions for longer coastlines or larger areas. Several other initiatives are under way as a follow-up to the coastal analysis, for example. the development of indicative contribution distribution models for the municipalities' work on coastal protection on larger sections. It is the government's view that this is also best regulated in the future by the coastal protection law. In addition, we will strengthen the existing travel team in the Coastal Directorate, which will then be even more visible and actively present around the country, and thus there will be an increased focus on a more outreach effort in relation to coastal protection and climate adaptation along the coasts. With the initiatives already undertaken by the government, we find no reason to initiate a new process and to change the responsibility of the authorities or to set up new bodies in order to give priority to national efforts in the area of coastal protection. There is no need for a coastal council to be set up, which, as I said, will simply add an extra bureaucratic link to the process. The aim of the amendment before Christmas was precisely the opposite, in other words to simplify procedures and ensure locally anchored and adapted projects. On the other hand, there is a need for municipalities to take responsibility for using the provisions of the Coastal Protection Act to establish holistic solutions where longer sections and/or larger areas need to be protected. For these reasons, I also reject the proposal on behalf of the government. However, the changing climatic conditions and the frequency of violent weather will not be reduced in the future, and it is essential to address the challenges before even greater floods occur. Last week I had a very good and constructive meeting with the National Association of Municipalities and mayors from a number of municipalities who are aware of the challenge of the effects of heavy storms and large floods. And I can hear that there is a need in several places for large projects, where many citizens have to be involved, in some cases across several municipalities, and that it can be difficult for municipalities to make solutions across. The municipalities have called for the state to play a more active role and help create local solutions in good time. That is why I am starting work in the government, where, before the summer break, we will examine whether we are well equipped or whether further initiatives are needed in relation to preventive action, including whether the legislation is put together in the best and smartest way to address the challenges we face with climate change. In addition, the government has also indicated that about the major cross-cutting projects, we are happy to take the lead in undertaking the work of structuring, but also to provide advice and guidance in relation to the municipal interventions with the citizens. Those were the words from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126130515	We thank the Minister for the time being. There are three brief comments for the time being. Here's the first one. It comes from Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126130523	I am very pleased that the Minister for the Environment recognises that we are facing climate change. We need to adjust to a whole new reality where storms and storms will become much more frequent. I have to say that we have had a coastal analysis which we need to follow up. It points precisely to holistic solutions. The minister says that it is the individual property owner who is responsible for protecting his property. But that statement makes no sense when it comes to a storm tide. Now I understand that the government is going to launch even more investigations into whether or not to do anything. Frankly, we are in a situation where Danes live in a uncertainty every winter about when the next storm flood hits. Can we not say soon that we have enough knowledge when a body with experts has carried out a coastal analysis and then together follow up and see to it that the solutions that Denmark needs are set in motion?
ParlaMint-DK_20170126130625	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126130626	Thank you. Well, the government does not set in motion, and I quote yet more studies, as the rapporteur says. The government is launching internal work to find the mechanisms in the legislation that prevent it from going faster. The day we have clarified that and if it is necessary to change the legislation, I am sure that Enhedslisten will be the first to vote in favour with the wish that something really should happen in this area. So we are so concerned that something has to happen. We don't need any more investigations. That is why we reject the resolution. Because we believe that there is the knowledge needed in the coastal analysis itself. However, it is quite obvious to everyone that it has been difficult in many parts of the country to get comprehensive solutions that have not stretched over several years due to complaints and the like. That is also why we changed the law before Christmas so that we can not complain about the process, but only about the final decision. And now, in fact, I have just to remind you that the Enhedslisten voted in favour of that amendment. Because it would have been natural to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126130722	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126130725	The municipalities point out that they need help to create the coherent holistic solutions. That is why we propose to offer it to them with a coastal council. There are municipalities that point to the fact that you cannot afford, so you need a helping hand. It's not all, it's some. There are, for example: Anholt, where the central road, every time there is a flood, is falling into the sea. And they don't have the money. After all, it cannot be right that we only believe that coast safety should be guaranteed where it is possible to do so, either at the level of the landowners or at the level of the municipalities. We must be prepared to help them. And that is exactly what we are proposing with a coastal fund. We're dealing with the two key instruments that can get this thing going now. I do not understand why new internal investigations, or what the Minister calls them, will continue to be carried out instead of getting started.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126130814	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126130815	Well, we're in a lot of business around the country. But there are also places in the country where there are legislative obstacles, for example. conservation of land, consideration of Natura 2000 and the like. And it would surprise me very much if Enhedslisten suddenly said that we can simply short-circuit all processes just because we need to start coasting. But that is not the reality, even for Enhedslisten. That is why what the government must have found within the legislation that extends the procedure and decide how we might have to change that legislation. We are going to do that here before the summer break, that is the clear objective. And then I look forward to that legal procedure with the Enhedslisten, because it is good and a citizen for a broad agreement to really get something done about that legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126130857	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126130901	Thank you. With the knowledge we have from the coastal analysis, to which the Minister also referred in his speech, can the Minister actually give a professional reason why, roughly speaking, all the state resources we spend on coastal protection here at home are spent on the west coast of Jutland a limited part of the west coast of Jutland and not elsewhere?
ParlaMint-DK_20170126130929	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126130929-2	In any case, I can give a historical justification, which dates back to 1983, when an agreement was made to secure a long stretch on the west coast of Jutland on the basis of heavy storms and on the basis of major government interests along the west coast of Jutland. Therefore, what is known as the Joint Agreement, which expires in 2018, was done where it is to be renegotiated. That's why we're spending $90 million as far as I remember. kr. annually on coast protection along the west coast of Jutland in interaction with a number of municipalities. However, I note that the Socialists are willing to spend state money on coastal protection, and I look forward to hearing the rapporteur tell us where that money is to come from, because they have to leave something else. So the rapporteur can properly tell us whether it is the municipalities that have to provide less child care to give more to coastal protection or who should do what when spending more money on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126131019	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126131021	The Minister will have to wait to polemicise and ask questions until I come to the floor and the Minister is very welcome. I feel and I also see the wording elsewhere that there are historical reasons why we spend 90 million. kr. a year on sand-feeding on the west coast. I think it is excellent to feed sand on the west coast, it is necessary, but the coastal analysis only says very clearly that it is not the only place that needs to be found elsewhere where there is the same need. Is it technically and factually justifiable that the only arguments that the Minister can make for us to spend the money right there and only there are historical arguments? And does this not give the Minister any opportunity to call for a debate to see whether there are other places where there is a need? We had a visitor from Anholt yesterday, but there might be other places. Is it really enough to take all the action of the state on historical arguments?
ParlaMint-DK_20170126131116	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126131117	No, it certainly isn't. There are certainly also good coastal reasons for doing so, among others. that the west coast of Jutland is an erosion coast where there can be great challenges with erosion. What the coastal analysis has shown is that there are also other places in the country where some of the same parameters apply, and that is why I have also said that what the reality is after 2018 when the overall state joint agreement is to be renegotiated, we have to deal with it at that time, because that is the way it is when you are negotiating coastal protection and coastal protection. But there are certainly both historical and professional reasons why coastal protection is being done with, among other things, coastal protection. sand feeding along the west coast of Jutland.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126131200	The next one is sir. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126131204	Thank you. I have to say, I'm wondering. I am surprised at the ease with which the Minister goes on this question. The government itself was presented with its coastal analysis back here in September. The message in it was pretty clear. It was quite clear that what was needed was more coherent solutions. These were solutions that could go against the challenges we face, due to climate change with more frequent storms, with rising water levels. It pointed very specifically to some areas where solutions needed to be made that were holistic, which were not conditional on small local solutions, where only those who could afford to make the solutions were able to do so. Now we've got that coastal analysis, and what's the answer from the government then? Yeah, that's, uh... that's, uh... that's, uh... that's, uh... that's, uh... that's, uh... that's, uh... that's, uh... that's, uh... I believe that three citizens' meetings are held around the country for one and a half hours. Then you will be involved in an analysis work which will look at some mechanisms that lie in the legislation. And that is the answer to the citizens who, every time a storm comes, are threatened by the fact that they cannot be in their homes, despite the emergency workers who were out defending the coasts time and time again. I mean, doesn't the government have any other solutions? Isn't there something more concrete in the drawer? After all, we are trying to put forward a concrete proposal on what can be done. It is fair enough that the government does not think it is right, but is the solution so that now we have to wait and see, and we have to hold some meetings, and we have to look at some mechanisms, and this is perhaps the most important thing about redress, and perhaps we need to be coast-proof in some places where there are Natura 2000 sites. That is a completely wrong and misguided approach to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126131335	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126131337	I love it when Enhedslisten's rapporteur polemicises against better knowledge. It is fantastic, of course, when you know very well how the legislation is related in this country and that it is of course necessary to locate if there are legal obstacles in being able to make large, coherent efforts, faster efforts and so on. etc. It is quite obvious that this is not just a matter of resolving with a coastal fund, because the legislation is the same if we do not change the legislation. The Enhedslisten had every opportunity, just before Christmas, to vote in favour of legislation that speeds up the process and that ensures that we do not have procedural complaints and that this does not run into the sand. You can then tell us how to deal with that bill. What is the whole issue is that the government has made it very clear that we would be happy to take a stand if the country's municipalities needed more coordinated action. We are happy to sit at the table with the Coastal Directorate to provide technical assistance and guidance, but we are not changing the basic principle that the Social Democrats and Radicals in the then government used for coastal analysis, that it is the citizens who are holding up the means to protect their property and that the municipalities have the opportunity to enter and assist with the economy for coastal protection projects of a coherent nature.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126131449	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126131451	It is very good that the Minister calls it polemics. After all, this is a very specific problem. What is the Minister's response to the citizens in those places where the major coherent solutions cannot be made, because the municipalities cannot afford, or because there can be no agreement among the landowners, because they do not have the economic capacity to do so, because there is a question of the lack of an economy and where we have to say that this is a national responsibility, where we also have to ensure national cofinancing. What is the answer to the citizens over at Anholt, where there are three citizens and a municipality alone to finance the protection of the only main route on the island? What's the answer to them? It is not, after all, about the fact that there are restrictions on the legislation today; it is about the fact that they are not able to finance, and the fact that no one is ensuring that there is national cofinancing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126131539	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126131541	One of the answers is, as I have been informed, that the Coast Directorate had been over for a meeting with Anholt to find out how to possibly make a better solution. That is, of course, one of the answers, because we are dealing with the situations that exist and we are not moving into fluffy meaningless statements about a coastal fund for which we cannot then find the money, and we are blinding our citizens. That's fluffy talk from Enhedslisten, and that's why we're rejecting this. We're acting on it. We're willing to change the law. I have said that if there are places where it is necessary to make more tough coastal protection supplemented, for example, by. sand-feeding, we are prepared for it by the government. We are prepared to take the citizens' side in this, so that they do not have to sleep insecurely at night, but we are not prepared to give them fluffy recommendations, as Enhedslisten does with this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126131625	The next is Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126131628	When we drew up the action plan for climate adaptation in the time of the previous government, we were trying to find some new ways of financing this new major task we had been given, so that, for example, the water companies could go in and do something collective and finance part of it with a tiny increase in the water bill, i.e. less than DKK 20. per family. Can it not be that some collective solutions are now needed in some places? Could it not be interesting if we look at the future, to see if there is a new financial mechanism? And would the Minister be interested in us trying to see whether there could be a way to find something, perhaps not a fund where you should find it in the Finance Act, but something a la storm river scheme or something like that?
ParlaMint-DK_20170126131703	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126131704	Thank you for the question. The government has not rejected any options in advance in relation to what the radical rapporteur mentions, and that is why we need to clarify the different conditions within the government work to locate where there might be screws to screw on. And then there will be something, whether it is a change of law in one, the other or the third, in which we will discuss matters with the Folketing, and that is what we will be doing here in the spring. But the first step is of course to locate how we solve the issues that are.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126131734	There are no more brief comments. Then we start with the rapporteur's line, and that's Mr. Knox. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, the Social Democratic Party, as the first.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126131746	Thank you. The Enhedslisten and the Alternative have tabled a motion for a resolution on the creation of a national coastal council and an associated national coastal protection fund. In the Social Democratic Party, it is considered that there is a need for more central coordination and priority for coastal protection efforts, which in many places are not good enough. It is not reasonable, appropriate or socio-economically optimal that coastal protection alone is a responsibility for residents and municipalities. We simply lack a national plan for where and when the need is greatest and for how the challenge is best and concretely solved in each place. If you read the coastal analysis which the Ministry of the Environment published in the autumn and which the Minister also mentioned, it is clear that today's efforts are not sufficient. There are examples of coastal protection where it does not make sense; there are examples of coasts where the need is great but where there is no security; and there are examples of a coastal protection measure in one place sending the monkey or the water, if you want to move on, so that the challenges of erosion become greater and the flood risk increases with the neighbour. There is so much room for improvement in this area, and it is expensive learning money that we as a society pay every time there are floods. If we look in the crystal ball, it only gets worse, and the minister also mentioned it. The erosion of the Danish coasts will increase by between 60 and 90 per cent. over the next 50 years, and these, of course, are the consequences of climate change that we need to take seriously and have to act on, and in fact I also think that these are the consequences that we in the Folketing should stand together to do something about. We therefore agree with the proposers that there is a need for better coordinated coastal protection and we think that a central advisory and coordinating unit for coastal protection is a good idea. We believe that the state must play a more central role, both in terms of planning, as it ensures overall solutions, but also financially. The government must take responsibility for securing the Danish coasts, and this requires action. We call for a national coastal safety council to be set up to coordinate important efforts to secure the coastline and to avoid some of the floods that have been seen at the latest during Christmas. We also believe that the state, together with the municipalities and the landowners, must play a role in the financing of coastal protection. On this point too, there is a need for the government to call for negotiations so that we can move forward and use the knowledge we have gained in the coastal protection analysis. The intention behind the proposal is therefore wise, forward-looking and sensible, and it should be possible to gather support for us here in the Danish Parliament to get into the work clothes and to act on the knowledge that we have now, when we have the coastal analysis. The Social Democrats cannot vote in favour of the proposal as it stands, because we cannot, without knowing the actual bill, settle on an amount and on a financing model. However, it is our hope that the proposal may end with a broad majority of people also very much like to be able to make a report with the government here in the Danish Parliament, which instructs the government, together with the Danish Parliament, to set in motion work for an overall national plan for coastal protection, and in this context we must also discuss how the state can financially support coastal protection where it is necessary and where there is a need for large overall solutions which have such a violent character where it is necessary for the state to contribute. I find it striking to hear the Minister say that the state spends all its money in one place on the West Coast, and this is done for historical reasons, although you know that there are other places in the country where the need is just as great, and we hear the Minister say that you will continue to do so until the end of 2018, and that is because there is an agreement in this area. After all, it is not fair to the people who are constantly experiencing floods that we spend the money alone in one place for historical reasons and that we have a minister who completely refuses to enter into a constructive dialogue with the rest of the Folketing to find solutions in this area. I really think we should make an effort not to polemicise this issue, but to try to find solutions together so that we can provide funding and create a model for the state to be able to plan more centrally the coast protection that we can see autumn of this year there is such a great need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126132218	Thank you to the rapporteur. I have a number of questioners, and then it will be really nice if we are helped to make it slip so well, so that it gets exciting by e.g. to respect the speaking time. I'm just saying that in advance, it'll help, and it'll be a good experience, even for those who see it on TV, I think. The first in line is sir. Erling Bonnesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126132239	Thank you. Coast protection is a serious matter. I think everyone takes this matter seriously, and I am pleased that the Social Democrat rapporteur is also reporting on it. One might just as well wonder when the rapporteur concludes by saying that autumn of autumn you have seen just because it is quite a few months since the Social Democrats themselves had the power of government. But let it go. After all, the commitment may end up with a larger government bill based on what the rapporteur himself says. What, then, is the Social Democrats' bid for the dialogue that the rapporteur himself calls for? Is it money to be taken on the Finance Act, or are there other bids for it? Let us try to get it on the table, including in the dialogue, which the rapporteur himself is proposing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126132320	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126132321	I will not comment on who has been in government when, but just say that we can see that we have a problem that is getting bigger. That is also why we have made it very clear that it is necessary for negotiations to be convened to ensure that the state takes greater responsibility. Because we can see that the municipalities and the citizens cannot carry out this task, and then I actually think that we are elected to take responsibility for those tasks, because there are common values that we need to protect. I have said very clearly that I am not going to adopt a financing model, and for the simple reason that it would be irresponsible to adopt a financing model before we know the actual bill. And we will not do that until we have decided from a central point of view what kind of projects it is that it is socially efficient and optimal to embark on. Then we will have to discuss it, and I will gladly take that discussion on how to find the money. I heard Mrs Ida Auken earlier point to the storm river model, and that is also the model contained in the proposal. It could be discussed. I'm sure there are other options too, water companies, what do I know? However, I think we should agree that a solution is needed here and that we need to stand together for a solution, and then we need to look a little further at how we finance the task.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126132432	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126132434	Well that there are some tasks that need to be solved, I think is obvious to everyone, and then I wonder why the Social Democrats do not have the slightest idea of how to consider finding money for this. In other words, the Minister has just stated that there is a process coming from now on and a few months on, that there are some things that need to be done. The rapporteur himself calls for greater state involvement, and it is not directly related to the fact that we do not just have some reflections and some suggestions on how it could be financed. We agree that it is not here that we should, if I may say so, turn it all together, but there has to be a suggestion whether it should be taken from the Finance Act or elsewhere. So let's just take that question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126132510	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126132512	Well, I think, in my previous reply, that I aired a number of messages to the rapporteur, and I would like to discuss that further. I just think it is a pity that the government and the Left Party, and thus the rapporteur's party, are saying very clearly that, regardless of how and how the discussion is going and whatever the reality of the situation is, one will reject from the outset that the state should play a financial role. I think that's sad. In fact, I think it is also a betrayal of the citizens, such as those from Anholt, who, as we heard yesterday, have a very specific problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126132542	Then it is Mrs Pia Adelsteen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126132545	Thank you. I think it is nice to hear that the Social Democrats have totally changed their minds. I must also admit that I think this is an easy way to do it when you are no longer in government. I have discussed coastal protection in the past with social democratic ministers, and at least they were unable to cut or stab in. And that is probably because, when you sit in a government, you are also responsible for, like, financing things. And there it's something easier to sit on the other side. Since 2006, when the current coastal protection law was adopted with the votes of the Social Democrats, the principle has been that it was the owners themselves who had to pay for coastal protection. It was a bill that the Danish People's Party voted against because we have always believed that coastal protection should be a national task. But I would just like to say hurry up and say that we have not tabled any proposals on this in the House because we have not been able to find the funding. I wish we could. I wish we had a money tree. But how the Socialist rapporteur imagines that it is possible to finance coastal protection, given that it says in the coastal analysis that the values in the area of coastal protection for the present amount to 53 billion. kr.? There are 60 projects for approval in the Coastal Directorate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126132707	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126132709	Well, I don't really want to go into the issue of turnarounds and the polemics I think I hear. In other words, the Danish People's Party has itself put forward proposals in this Chamber for state-funded coastal protection. The rapporteur of the Danish People's Party himself has written to various newspapers that the state should take greater financial responsibility. So, if there are disputes, you can point to the rapporteur's party. I would just like to say quite calmly that I think I can see that, in reality, there is a need for the state to take greater responsibility, including financially. So let us sit together and do what the Danish People's Party has been arguing for for years, namely try to find some state funds to solve this problem with. After all, it should not be the case that municipalities or citizens should not contribute financially in the future too. I think there is a good logic in the fact that the municipalities and the citizens have their hands on the hot plate, if I may say so, because they are the ones who have to behave wisely out on the coast when there is construction and when there is construction. So it is clear that it will be an interaction. But the Danish People's Party has said for a long time that there is a need for state funding in this area, and I think that we should agree that this need is there and that it is going to increase in the future. And then let us sit together and take the first steps, including economic ones, on this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126132824	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126132825	So let me try to ask you another way, because it's pretty obvious, I think every time there's been a storm, we've been talking about coastal protection down here. It's kind of between the storms that you have to do something. That's where it's gonna happen. Does the rapporteur think that in the existing legislation there are obstacles for those people who actually want to pay for their coast protection themselves? Does the rapporteur think so, and are the Socialists willing to change the legislation that is now? Every time I've been out in the country, I've seen that people actually want to pay for themselves. They have applied for it, they want to do something to secure their values, but they just cannot.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126132909	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126132910	It is said that elections must be won between the elections and the storms must be settled between the storms. And it doesn't blow today, so it's a good opportunity to discuss it, and I'm glad we do. I am of the clear opinion that there are problems beyond the financial aspect. For example, if you go to Roskilde, you will find that they currently have a problem with the Coast Protection Act. The matter lies and awaits in the Nature and Environmental Complaints Board, where, unfortunately, the waiting time is too long. Once they have done so, this case may be complained of in relation to conservation, in relation to protection of streams, in relation to river regulation and in relation to possible expropriation. So it is obvious that there are also bureaucratic things that we need to sort out. I would very much like to discuss that. It just doesn't change the fact that we also have a financial challenge.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126132958	The next question is Mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126132959	Thank you. I would then like to sign the Socialist rapporteur for the speech and for the Socialist rapporteur to recognise the main points both in relation to the issue we are facing and in relation to the solution we have put forward by the Enhedslisten and the Alternative, because it is absolutely right that, precisely because of climate change, it is a problem that we will see growing in the years to come, and that is why we also need to take a national responsibility for finding a solution. What I would like to ask the rapporteur is about funding. We are fully aware that this is a proposal, and that is why we will of course be able to negotiate afterwards when it comes back to committee. And if there are other solutions for a financing model, we are quite open to that, and the same applies in relation to the 400 million. kr., which is what we are proposing. However, does the rapporteur have any fundamental objections to the financing model that we have presented, which is to continue to follow the line we are taking in relation to the Council of Storm, namely to find funding through the non-life insurance tax? Because this allows for a more balanced distribution of the cost of coastal protection efforts. Are there any objections in principle to the way in which it is financed?
ParlaMint-DK_20170126133116	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126133117	No. In any case, I can say very clearly that there are no fundamental objections to that model, and thus not saying that this is the model we have to choose, but I have nothing in principle against it. The model is that it will mean that the money should not be found elsewhere, that it should not be cut down in hospitals, primary schools and day care centres, as the Minister pointed out earlier. We have also discussed a model for using waste water tariffs in the past. So there are a number of models out there that can be discussed, and I think we should continue to do so in committee. But I must also say that I think we need to get the government involved on this issue, that we are getting the office to work with us on this issue, so that we get the discussion a little wider, both on central planning, but also, of course, on the issue of funding.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126133203	Thank you. The next one is sir. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Was there one more brief comment from Mr. Peder Hvelplund? I'm sorry! Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126133214	Thank you. I fully agree that the best thing would be for us to get the government on the ground in relation to this. It has just not been so much positive signals that we have heard so far, and that is why we must, of course, continue with it. But when we talk about the actual amount, that is to say about the financing requirement, I can say that we are completely open to looking at it. This proposal is merely an attempt to say that by raising the insurance tax by between DKK 200. and 400 kroner. For each insured person, a revenue of 400 million could be generated. kr., which could just help to ensure more solidarity in the distribution of expenditure.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126133248	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126133249	I would like to acknowledge the very constructive approach to the financing issue and to the amount of money, and I believe that this is a wise approach, also because we know where there is a need, according to the knowledge provided by the coastal analysis, but we do not know what concrete solutions are socially optimal, we do not know whether there are places where coastal protection is needed, but where the values that a possible coastal protection will protect are so low that we have to choose some other solutions, or not at all coast safety. So these are the debates that need to be taken into account before deciding on the level of funding and funding. I think this is a wise approach, as the rapporteur says, that this must be discussed along the way, as we become wiser. That is also why I think it makes sense that the proposal contains both a desire for funding, but also that there should be a proper council which plans it centrally.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126133337	Thank you. Then it's mr. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126133340	Thank you for that, President. And thank you for a rapporteur's speech by the Social Democrat rapporteur, which I think opened up many new things. We can now understand that the Social Democrats are interested in engaging in serious discussions on this. And I think, in particular, that something that was positive was this about looking at bureaucracy and administration, etc., which there is no doubt that this is what we are all hearing that in fact most needs. I just do not think that it has been the attitude of the Social Democrats before that they would change the laws and rules in this regard. The motion for a resolution here is very specific in relation to the amount of funding I think there are 400 million. kr. In this connection, can the Social Democratic Party perhaps answer the question of the amount of money that the Social Democratic Party considers necessary in this context?
ParlaMint-DK_20170126133431	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126133433	I can confirm the questioner that we are very concerned about dealing with the bureaucracy involved in the current coastal protection cases. That's all, too violent. It is clear that a model must be drawn up that takes account of nature and legal certainty, but I would like you to have a situation in which you run these processes in parallel instead of running after each other and therefore running for several years. That is why the situation we have at the moment can be faced with, where very few opponents of coastal protection projects everywhere can train the process of the projects in a way that they can never become a reality. We are being asked about funding, and I have to repeat what I said earlier, that is to say that I think we need to sit together, the parties responsible, and agree that this problem requires us to provide some funding. And then I say that before we know the concrete projects, the specific sites, it is impossible and, in fact, irresponsible to put an amount on, and that is why I do not want to go into it either.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126133528	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126133529	But a little bit concrete, maybe we can stay. Can the Social Democrat rapporteur perhaps not go a little further on who should provide this funding? Is it all taxpayers, including Ikast-Brande Municipality, for example, or is it only taxpayers in coastal municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20170126133551	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126133552	I would like to say that I believe that whatever you choose will be wisest, that it is still the landowners and municipalities who have the greatest responsibility and who also bear the greatest financial burden, because there is also a positive incentive and a wise incentive on our part that you continue to have an economic incentive to behave wisely when you are on the coasts. So I don't really see it as changing. We can only see that the problem now has such a character that we too, on the part of the state, have to embark on the task. And then we have to look at what projects we have to put into practice and how we get them funded. But it is not only a question of what specific projects they are, but also of the speed at which they are to be implemented.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126133635	The next one is sir. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126133640	Thank you. I was very pleased with the first part of the rapporteur's speech, because it sounded as if the Social Democratic Party wanted to link in here and find a solution and ultimately vote in favour. But it sounds a bit like there is no vote in favour, and that is a bit too bad. That is why, of course, I am also curious to hear what it is about. What is to be changed in the work of the committee? Because, as Enhedslisten's rapporteur also says, we are very open to the model that we have presented. There are some basic principles in it, which are what we are going for, but whether it should be 400 million. We are, of course, completely open to discussing whether or not it should be financed in exactly the way we propose. So I wanted to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur could go a little further on what the details need to be developed so that this can be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126133734	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126133736	I think I have to answer quite frankly and say that I do not think this matter should be dealt with by a resolution. I do not think we can change the resolution in such a way that it would be the best way to deal with this problem. I believe that what we are going to do, and I think that I have actually said this in the rapporteur's speech, is that we are making a report by a broad majority which clearly states that we need to have a central coordination on the coast protection effort. It may be a coastal council and that, at the same time, we are stating that it is still a majority of the parties who believe that state funding should be provided to deal with these problems. So I think it would be most sensible and simply wisest to get the country a report which means that a majority is instructing the government to continue working on this so that we can get the good officials into the solutions that need to be found.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126133830	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126133832	Well, I think that's a positive answer. I would just like to say that if the Social Democratic Party makes a proposal later on, I will be in favour. What is important to us in the Alternative is that we get coordination, which is national and thought through, and that things happen coordinated and based on such a, what can be said, objective plan, and that you then have some sort of joint financing of it • however you turn it together.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126133902	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126133903	I have no further comment to make on that. I very much agree with the comment made by Christian Poll last.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126133907	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126133912	Thank you. On the one hand, the rapporteur was constructive in his speech, but on the other hand, I heard such criticism and, at least, some argument that one could deliver better oneself. The rapporteur also said that too little was done by the state and that only helping on the west coast of Jutland. But that is simply not true. Well, we're spending 103 million. kr. on this today, and it is true that the majority is used on the west coast of Jutland. But it is also used today to maintain the dyke on Lolland-Falster, for example, so it is not the only place. But it is based on an assessment of where the effort needs are greatest. In addition, you have this travel team, which can travel to all municipalities and provide assistance, just how to ensure the coast of each municipality. So in this way I do not think it is right for the rapporteur to say that the state only but what I really want to ask is how much money has been allocated in the Social Democratic Finance Bill for 2017 for further measures in relation to coastal protection
ParlaMint-DK_20170126134014	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126134016	Well, we have said very clearly that it is not certain that this is to be found in the 2017 Finance Act or anywhere else, so there are of course no concrete plans to place anything there. In fact, I think I did my best in the past to say "green" all the money. What is the challenge here is that we spend roughly 90 per cent. of the total state resources on a limited part of the west coast of Jutland. And there's a need here where we spend the money. The challenge is, of course, that with the coastal analysis we see that this need also exists elsewhere. And there is no argument that we are not also spending funds on sand-feeding in those places. There is only the historical argument, namely that it has always been done along the west coast of Jutland, about between Limfjorden and Nymindegab. It makes sense for us to do that. It is just not right to the rest of the Danish population that the best argument we can draw forward for how we spend the lion's share of our money on coastal protection is that it is due to historical conditions. That is simply not right.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126134122	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126134124	However, the rapporteur criticised the Minister for saying that the agreement that runs until 2018 will be maintained, where it has already been decided where it is that the state is going in and is granting subsidies. The rapporteur criticized the fact that the minister was not ready to vomit in the air. In fact, 2018 is not that far away in time, and I have to understand from the rhetoric of the rapporteur that the rapporteur then has an offer by 2018 for these people, who are believed to be failing. So I would just like to hear again: where is it by 2018 that the rapporteur will find the money he criticises the minister for not having found?
ParlaMint-DK_20170126134202	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126134204	I think you have to stick to the sand-feeding agreement on the west coast of Jutland. There is a need; we can only see that there is a need elsewhere. That is where I say that we, as responsible parties, should put ourselves together, make central planning and provide the necessary funding, so that we can also take action elsewhere. Because you cannot objectively argue that we only spend the money where we spend it today. One can only argue historically for this, and it is too lax in 2017 that one can only make historical arguments. It simply cannot be done; it is to fail.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126134234	Thank you. The preliminary last questioner is Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126134240	Thank you. I would also like to congratulate the rapporteur very much on being so accommodating with this proposal. I look forward to a debate on how we can land it in a way so that we can all see ourselves in it. I would just like to ask the rapporteur to confirm that what is in the proposal is, of course, that landowners and municipalities still have to finance away. What we are offering is that the state goes into the areas where we know there is a need, but where there is no local advice. Then, of course, there is funding, as we have already said. But I think it's a little fascinating to hear the comments of the blue block. It's a fascinating tunnel vision you sometimes see. Will the rapporteur not confirm that it is not free of charge to do nothing; that if one considers socio-economically that there is a gain in coastal protection, then that means that the damage that can occur if we do nothing can cost a great deal of money? It may be that I have not found it in the Finance Bill of the Left or the Government or anywhere else, but I have not seen where they have set aside money to help or to restore infrastructure. I do not know if the rapporteur has it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126134351	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126134353	No, the rapporteur has not. But I can confirm that it is not free to do nothing. I heard a broadcast where a COWI researcher, I think, said that if you made a dam at the end of Roskilde Fjord, it would cost 120 million. kr. I do not know whether this is the right solution, but one can think of 120 million. kr. is a lot of money. Yes, at the end of the month in my budget it is a lot of money, but at the flood after Bodil in 2013, it cost only around Roskilde Fjord 400 million. kr. in replacement and cleanup. So it's extremely expensive if we don't take this challenge seriously... a challenge that only gets bigger forward. We should do this so openly, and we should actually be able to get together on this, I think. Then I would like to confirm that in the proposal from the Enhedslisten and the Alternative there is the idea that municipalities and citizens should not be deprived of funding obligations, but that state funding is a supplement. I think that is also sensible for the reasons I have mentioned in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126134459	Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. Let's move on. This is Mrs Pia Adelsteen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126134513	Thank you. I do not think there is anyone in this Chamber, and hopefully not in many places around the country who does not know that I have been concerned about coastal protection with life and soul for very, very many years. The proposal here is for a national coastal council to be set up to carry out such an overall priority on the basis of objective criteria of where to create coastal protection; in cooperation with the municipalities, priority must be given to and to coordinate local protection efforts; and so, like the third, must buy out land with high natural value, which is threatened by frequent flooding, and transform it into nature. The Danish People's Party cannot support the proposal. The coastal analysis that we were waiting for for a very, very long time in my optics finally came last autumn. The way I read the coastal analysis, it was hardly worth the paper it was written on. When I say it, it's because there was nothing surprising in it for me. But that is probably the case when you have been dealing with it for 10 years. It didn't say anything I didn't know. Now I use it as an encyclopedia when there's something I can't remember. It's so fine. So that way, it has a certain effect. But what you do here is simply that you want to make some more bureaucracy. And in my optics there is no need for more bureaucracy; there is a need to give freedom out in Denmark, so that the people who actually face flood problems, who are actually facing houses that are about to ride beyond dunes and edges, and what I know, also have a real opportunity to protect their values. This isn't a question of finding x number of crowns. When I've been around the Danish country for very, very many years and seen houses fall down the slopes, when I've seen floods, where children come home and see all their toys covered in sewer water etc., then what people say is not: Try to hear, make a new coastal council with some who can sit and find out where it is most important. No, people don't say that. People say, can we please protect our home? That is why we in the Danish People's Party actually believe that we should have amended the coastal protection law. It is of no help to us that in a country with 7,300 km of coastline we believe that we can do everything with sand. We can't. Then we do it in some places with sand. But there are just some places where we need to use some other methods, and I think we need to give method freedom. I know that yes, holistic solutions are the best. But an overall solution is not necessarily over three municipalities. Wholeness can also be for 15 minutes, for example. Jyllinge Nordmark, who I visited all day yesterday. There is a solution, but because of foolish rules that we do nothing. Then we can stand here on Parliament's platform every winter because that's what we do and talk about how terrible it is for the poor citizens, because now they're losing their values. We have even made laws so that property taxes can no longer be charged if the houses are below sea level. That was impressive, and I say it with irony, because it's just not okay. Of course, we must give people the opportunity to protect what they have, and that freedom of method must therefore be there. I just think that's important. I think this is a strange suggestion. The free purchase of land with high natural value: So now we have to suddenly buy what? So is it Jyllinge Nordmark we're going to buy out so it can be flooded? Or if you look at the coastal analysis on page 51, where it says which areas are most easily flooded in Denmark, you might ask: Is it Lemvig that we have to buy, or Ringkøbing-Skjern, Esbjerg, Tønder or any of Copenhagen? Now Copenhagen may not be the most natural-value-creating area. But what are we going to do? And where on earth will you get the money? I can't find the money tree. If it had been possible to find the money tree, if I had been able to find it, we in the Danish People's Party would have suggested many years ago that it was a national task to protect the coast and that it was common responsibility to finance it. But we have not been able to do so in the Danish People's Party, which is why we have to accept that the people who are out there will contribute themselves. But that is not what I see as the major problem either. Yes, I know there are areas, such as Anholt, which had a delegation in here yesterday, where they find it difficult to find the money. But there are plenty of places where they actually have money. They just can't. So I would call on all parties here in the Folketing to give method freedom, to allow people to also make stone sentences, because that is what is needed in the country. Then I would also call for a joint agreement to be reached over on the West Coast, where approx. 90 million kr. a year for sand-feeding, that you go in and look at that perhaps something could be done that was cheaper. That doesn't mean you don't have to feed sand anywhere, because I'm totally on sand-feeding. But I do know that such ships can be bought and that you might be able to do so in a cheaper way if you want to continue with that method. It's just a call from here. But we do not support the proposal in the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126135109	Thank you. The first question is Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126135115	Well, that's absolutely right. I have also noted that the rapporteur talks a lot about coastal protection, but so far I do not have much to say about it. And I think that this proposal offers precisely an opportunity for us to act as well. I cannot understand what has happened since the Danish People's Party put forward a proposal in 2006, where Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard and Mr. Peter Skaarup just suggested that the state should take a responsibility in this, which means that when we make a proposal about the state taking responsibility in this, then the Danish People's Party is not part of it. I have also taken note of a speech by Mrs Pia Adelsteen in 2015, which makes a crippling criticism of the fact that the state is not contributing and yet one will not vote in favour of a proposal that should just make the state go in and take responsibility and provide a financial helping hand to those areas, the municipalities and the citizens who cannot pay for it here. So should I understand the rapporteur's view that they will only be secured or given something to those who have the money to do it themselves; that one wants to create a wild West where people themselves can go out and throw granite blocks into the sea? And then I would just like to ask: is it in the coastal analysis that the recommendation has been found that if we just let people do something for their own cause and then, by the way, pass the problems to the neighbour, then we have solved this problem in an excellent way?
ParlaMint-DK_20170126135231	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126135233	That was a lot of questions at once. Let me see if I remember them all. I have talked a lot about coastal protection; that is quite right. I have also tried to do more than talk. As the rapporteur is aware, in order to amend a law in here we need 90 mandates, and I have had difficulty finding this, at least when it comes to this particular area. I hope that will happen; I really hope that will happen. We voted against the coastal protection law that has been adopted and, as everyone else has said, we voted in favour of it from 2006. We voted against it because we actually wanted it to be a national task. But back then, no one else was willing to. I'd be happy to take the debate. I really hope we can find some money. I also think that we should help where they have major problems. This is being done on the west coast by the joint agreement that is now, and it might as well have been anywhere else. And as I just called on the Minister, it might be that we should look at this joint agreement, which is due to expire soon, and then perhaps do things a little cheaper. I'd love to see that, too, because then we could help some more. But what is the biggest problem, as I see it, is not necessarily the money. There are people who have actually figured out how to fund it. There are municipalities that have been created projects. And there are 60 pending projects at the Coast Directorate, which are being treated ■ where people are just waiting to know if they can just be allowed to secure their homes. And yes, sometimes we push the problem on to the neighbor I know that, and we all know that, if we've read just a little bit of what's in the coastal analysis, but it can't help anything that we say: "You can't, so your house must fall into the sea, otherwise you'll push the problem on to the neighbor." Then it is precisely that municipalities and states should go in and say, "We can make such an overall solution, then it will work."
ParlaMint-DK_20170126135410	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126135412	I am still a little interested in knowing what has happened from the time when the Danish People's Party decided to make a proposal here, where the state would have to take responsibility, to this day when we are voting against the very fact that the state must go in and take greater responsibility, including in terms of funding. After all, we do not know exactly what is involved in projects now and whether they have precisely the overall concerns that the coastal analysis says should have. So why is it that the Danish People's Party today is more concerned that the richest landowners should have the opportunity to throw granite blocks into the water, which is a very isolated solution, which just does not listen to what the coastal analysis concludes at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20170126135458	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126135500	So, first of all, I would like to say that the motion for a resolution tabled by the Enhedslisten and the Alternative does not seem to me to mean that the state takes greater responsibility. I see this as a proposal to set up a new council to look again at some things. One would very much like to preserve nature, but one does not really allow much else. That is how I see the proposal, and I am sorry if I have misunderstood it. But in my optics, this means nothing but bureaucracy, nothing more. That's why we say no to it. When it is then said that we in the Danish People's Party should allow the richest to throw granite down on the beach, I simply think it is some absolute nonsense. When there are small villages over on the west coast like No. Lyngby, who is about to drop into the sea, is not the richest people. But they can't do anything. When I have stood up at Nørlev Strand, it is not the richest people who have a small holiday home of 40 m2 that is falling into the sea. I just think it's a strange optic: it's the richest people who have to throw granite into the sea. It has nothing to do with it. Many of the common solutions that have been made, many of the projects that are being applied for, relate precisely to people who come together and find a common financing opportunity and who get help from the municipalities and yet they get no.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126135613	Thank you. When I get up, it's actually because time's up. It's not that it's about to go, it's next in line is Mr. Knox. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126135624	Thank you. I still find it rather difficult to understand what is the real reason for voting against this proposal. On the one hand, we have the proposal from the Enhedslisten and the Alternative. We are not inventing a money tree, but we are setting out funding, a very concrete funding that will enable us to take concrete action on this. The rapporteur also says that the solution is not to create small local solutions, but that the solution, as described in the coastal analysis, is to create holistic solutions. That's exactly what we're saying in this proposal. On the other hand, there is the proposal from the government that there should be some more meetings in the municipalities, and then you have to look at what mechanisms it is that make it impossible to be coast-proof in the small local solutions. As the rapporteur himself says, that is not the solution, because it simply shifts the problem. So I cannot fully understand why it is that the rapporteur rejects a solution which guarantees precisely national cofinancing, which creates holistic solutions, and which helps to ensure that those places where there are citizens who do not have economic capacity also have the opportunity to ensure coast safety. I still need answers from the rapporteur on what the answer to them over at Anholt is. I heard the rapporteur say that there are so many other places where they can do it. But they can't do that there. In the municipalities of North West Jutland, Hjørring, Frederikshavn and Jammerbugt, the mayors also call for holistic solutions and national co-financing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126135755	Yes, please. The same goes for the questioners, because otherwise this is going to be very, very long. I think we should be helped to keep to this, so that it is not every one that exceeds time, because then it will be an unnecessarily long day, and there are many questions. I have heard several occasions to answer, because I am glad to be asked again. So let's help each other out so I don't have to stand up all the time for nothing. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126135816	Thank you. Then I'll try not to burn so much. The proposal provides for financing. Yes, you could say that it indicates that 400 million can come. kr. in a box, some of which will at least be used to buy land free of charge. I do not believe that it provides funding for how to protect the coast. When you talk holistic solutions, in my optics it's not like that all around Sjælland. I have been to Liseleje for a trip, and there was a house that had stones on one side, stones on the other side, but they must not be coastproof. That is why I believe there needs to be a change of law. Then you can call it an overall solution that all the others have stones, while one house doesn't. Why they can't, I don't know. Yeah, I know, it was because the law was changed, and they didn't have time to come. It is just to say that there are small local projects that can make sense, because there are differences between municipalities, there are differences between places, and that can change very quickly. This isn't the west coast of Jutland all around Zealand. I just don't think the proposal you, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative have made is good enough. It is bureaucracy, but it is not funding coastal protection.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126135928	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126135930	There is exactly the financing of coastal protection here. I just have to bring something to the attention of the questioner. Now the questioner himself mentioned Nørlev, and the reason why there was coastal erosion at Nørlev was, of course, that they made coast protection at Skallerup Klit, and thus moved the problem. Now you do exactly the same thing, now you move the problem north again. I still lack the rapporteur's answer to a question: what about those places where there is no economic capacity, but where there is a good reason why there are some social values that need to be protected? What is the answer to them, what is the answer to the citizens of Anholt, what is the answer to the municipalities of North West Jutland?
ParlaMint-DK_20170126140002	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126140004	I am really glad that Nørlev Strand has now been allowed to make the tough coast protection that was applied for back in 2009. I just want to say that I'm really happy about that. But there's also 26 houses in the ocean, so it's about time. I've been watching the houses fall down, and I have, and I know there are some other coastal protection methods that have made it all of a sudden erode extra much on Nørlev Strand. But what do you imagine? That we shouldn't do anything, that we just let all of Skagen fall into the sea, or what? I don't think so. I imagine you make some security, because that is what we want in the Danish People's Party, so actually allow people to secure their values and their properties. Then there are places where there are some economic challenges, and we need to solve that, and that is also something we need to do together. But that is not done by creating more bureaucracy and finding 400 million. kr., of which part of the money must at least go to free purchase natural areas from the point of view of the Alternative and Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126140104	Next is Mrs. Trine Torp, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126140106	Thank you. When I listen to the debate here, I have some doubts as to what is the rapporteur's main priority. Is it to follow the recommendations of the coastal analysis to make holistic solutions, or is it to ensure what the rapporteur calls the freedom of method for individual landowners?
ParlaMint-DK_20170126140130	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126140132	It is to ensure freedom for the landowners. And when I say that, it is because, as soon as you say holistic solutions, it is often perceived as having to go through three municipalities, and I do not think that is necessarily the right thing to do. An overall solution may be the solution used by Nørlev Strand. I consider that to be an overall solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126140154	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126140156	As Members of Parliament, we are not at least neither the rapporteur nor I are professionals in this area, so in relation to what I think about it, I think that when you recommend holistic solutions, it is often because you actually think that if you don't think about it in whole, you push the problem from one landowner to another or from one municipality to another. So I just want to hear from the rapporteur: does the rapporteur doubt that there may be consequences in the creation of methodological freedom, individual solutions for neighbouring landowners or the municipality next door?
ParlaMint-DK_20170126140233	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126140235	No, I don't doubt that, but I just don't want to sit back in here and say, "That's too bad, 'cause if you do something to secure your values, the neighbor's house goes to sea." But you have to try to find a common solution in this homeowners' association or this place. That is what we have been calling on people to do, and that is actually what they have been doing to Nørlev Strand and had in the pipeline since 2009, but they have just not been allowed to do so. I don't know if that's possible, and we'll have to take a look at it. But we are a country consisting mainly of islands and consisting of 7,300 km of coastline, and I will not just let nature take its course, I have to admit, I will not. I want people to be allowed to secure their values, secure their property. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126140320	The next question is Mr. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126140323	Thank you. Sometimes when I take my car to the mechanic, it's because I really like that there are professionals who know how to repair my car. If I get an idea that I could put on a cable brake because it is both much cheaper and easier to deal with, then I am really glad that there are some rules that say that no, that is not how I can arrange my car, because it must be able to brake safely. That is why I am actually pleased that we have some professionals who assess which solutions we should choose where. We want to strengthen that too with this coastal council. A coastal council must be a collection of different actors who can both look at the whole and who can choose the solutions that are now best suited. And they are very different places in the country. The rapporteur mentions that the rapporteur can read out of the proposal that it is only about nature. I would just like to mention that the comments state that the task of the Coastal Council must be to develop and maintain coastal management criteria and, in cooperation with local stakeholders, give priority to concrete actions according to the criteria and, moreover, give priority to the resources of the coastal fund. In this connection, the municipalities will be entrusted with the task of preparing proposals for the Coastal Council on action for their coastal areas. There's no nature in this yet. It is therefore a question of creating an overview and creating a coordinated effort, which will be less bureaucratic precisely because it does not need to be restarted locally every time, but has an overall aim. That is why I also wonder what is holding the rapporteur back from being positive about our proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126140505	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126140507	I must have explained it very badly. I'm not interested in getting any more overviews. We have a coastal analysis on x number of pages. It provides an excellent overview of where the problems are. I waited for it with longing. I don't think there was anything new in it. That's what I said. I knew where the trouble was. You can see that now when you get around the country. That is where the houses fall into the sea or where there are floods; where people pages and put half a million kroner in the renovation of their houses, and I don't know what, just to be able to exist. That's where there's trouble. You don't have to be an academic to find out. I don't need a big report to find out. I can just go around the country. But now I have a report, and I think we should use it. There's no need to make any more reports. Then I just want to say that professionals are fine. You can get good input from that. But it is not professionals who control Denmark. It is we as politicians and we have a position on things. And I am just making clear what is the position of the Danish People's Party in relation to coastal protection. It is therefore that people should be allowed to do something so that they can preserve their values so that they can preserve their property and so that they do not have a huge debt on a house below sea level.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126140620	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126140624	Then we are still in a situation where there are a great many people out there who cannot participate because they simply cannot afford to engage in coastal protection efforts locally. It may be that they can find money somewhere if they really pull themselves together, but it will be a really hard effort for a lot of them. I believe that those to which the rapporteur refers and whom the rapporteur has spoken may not be the richest, but some can find some means. And what we want with our proposals from the Enhedslisten and the Alternative is to do this in general. Let us now have an ongoing overview, not just a snapshot such as the coastal analysis, but on a regular basis have some who keep an eye on things and give priority to common means of ensuring that we can have coastal protection where it is needed. Does that not make sense at all, and is it not a sensible approach?
ParlaMint-DK_20170126140711	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126140713	No, that doesn't make sense. I think it is excellent in the coastal analysis, where they have analyses that up to 2050 it looks like that, and forward to, I think it is actually 2115 it looks like that and so on. This can also be read in the coastal analysis. So this thing about what we know, it's written there. In relation to funding, I would say that it is clear that some people are having difficulty finding funding. But now the municipalities have the opportunity to make a joint financing to distribute the costs and to make a payment scheme. The municipalities actually have that opportunity. This has been done in Roskilde in Jyllinge Nordmark. This means that the cost you have every month is very, very minimal. And for the people I talked to yesterday, it wasn't funding that was the problem. It was security. The security of being able to sleep in your own home when it blows and storms; that your children should not enter the bed, even if they are 10 years old, because they say that mother, we would rather go home to grandmother, it blows. That's what we have to give people back.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126140817	The next question is Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126140822	I heard the rapporteur say: I really hope that some money can be found. I think that was the rapporteur's direct word, and that is fine in addition to what the Danish People's Party meant in 2006 and what the rapporteur himself wrote in 2015, as the previous questioner also mentioned. But should we not agree that we are using this motion for a resolution to send out the very clear signal that there is now a majority in the Folketing wishing to discuss with the government how we provide funding from the state for coastal protection around the country?
ParlaMint-DK_20170126140901	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126140903	No, I do not want to use this resolution as a lever because I fundamentally disagree with the resolution. I am also quite sure that the Minister has listened to what has been said here. I am also quite sure that the Minister knows very well what I think about coastal protection and has taken it quite seriously. I think it is important that we try to find out how we can help those places where help is needed and which cannot find funding themselves. However, with regard to this motion for a resolution, I do not think that is the way forward. And I'm happy to have a discussion with the Minister, and I'm sure the Minister will do that with me and then we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126140940	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126140942	But I fully agree that the Danish People's Party is against the resolution and cannot vote for it. After all, it is a position that the Danish People's Party shares with the Social Democratic Party. But what I was asking was whether we should use the majority in the Parliamentary Chamber now to tell the minister and the government and send the clear signal that it might be a report on this motion for a resolution; it may be a report we take on our own initiative in committee that there is now a majority in the Folketing that wants us to sit down together and look at how funding can be provided so that we have responsibility for coastal protection around the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126141017	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126141019	I almost wish I had gotten the message from the Social Democratic Party three years ago that would have been nice. There I discussed it with Mrs Kirsten Brosbøl, who was Minister for the Environment at the time. What I think is important is that we get something done, and it is my view that, after the coastal analysis has arrived, the government has actually gone in and said: OK, we know what the problem is now; we need to find out how to solve it. And I have also received a very clear statement from the Minister that the Minister is willing to look at whether to make changes to the law so that people will have the opportunity to actually secure their property. As far as funding is concerned, I just need the money tree. I have said before, and I am happy to say it again: I am not asking my financial rapporteur to find me x number of billions in relation to coast safety I am just not doing so. Because then I will have to stand by and tell you that there are some people who cannot get cancer treatment, that some people cannot be properly looked after, etc. And I'm not prepared for that at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126141121	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Erling Bonnesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126141134	Thank you. Coastal protection is a serious matter and we take it seriously too. I think all politicians do. We can also hear from today's debate that everyone is concerned about it and is aware of it. The government is also dealing with this, and it is doing so on the basis of the majority that is about it. One can, of course, refer very briefly to what has already been done and done: there is the coastal analysis, there have been some legislative changes that follow up it, and there is now also the possibility of what we call holistic solutions, locally, so that we can start to tackle things locally. The Minister is now also looking into the possibility of giving the State a greater coordinating role in future where it is needed, so that we can get the various solutions, but also the right ones, in the right places, and that is why we need to have a strong interaction with the locals, who know where the shoe is pulling and starting there. It is a good thing, and that is a good answer, we can say, to the various questions that have been raised so far, that the Minister is reporting out, that you are now in the think box and that you have to have a collection of experience on top of what we have now been through in recent months with storms and so on, and to which I have listened, it will be before the summer break that there will be some things on the table that you can relate to. I think that is a good thing and it is a responsible way of reacting. Because, as has already been said, even by the Minister himself, something needs to be done and exactly the right thing to do in the various cases. We have also recently had the storm Urd, which we have all witnessed, and then we had the storm river. We do not know what next, but unfortunately it should also appear that we will see more of such extreme weather phenomena in the future. That is why we in the Left also fully recognise the importance of managing coastal protection, so that Danish companies, cottage owners and homeowners etc. can have the opportunity to protect yourself as well as possible. But in view of the stakes that have already been set in motion, as well as those we can say agencies and other things that are on the drawing board already now, we in the Left do not believe that the proposals of the Enhedslisten and the Alternative here are the way forward. First of all, with the proposal by the Enhedslisten and the Alternative to set up another so-called national coastal council, we risk creating another bureaucratic unit which, we can say, complicates the procedures further, and we certainly do not need that at this stage. So, of course, we're not interested in that. With our recent amendment to the coastal protection law, we are precisely ensuring that some of these different procedures are simplified. So let us move on along the road that the Minister also points out and has announced that he is already in the process. At the same time, we are aware that new means may be needed in the fight to protect coastal areas. That is also why we have recently made legislative changes, as we have mentioned in the past. Local initiatives can now also be taken on the overall solutions, which can be adapted entirely locally, and we are now looking at how and, where appropriate, to what extent the State might play a more active role where it is needed in coastal protection. There are some places where it will be, we can call it a little smaller projects that you can easily handle locally, and then there may be some where you have to spread your wings in the overall solution, but where you can handle it there too, and then there may be some things so big that you have to have a dialogue higher up. So let us look forward to that debate. It is precisely in the process of examining these various points that we cannot support the motion for a resolution before us and reject it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126141551	Thank you. There are three to brief comments to be made. Sir. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten, as the first.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126141558	Thank you. I understand that one of the main objections of the Left to this proposal is that it is bureaucratic. It sounds as if the Left's way of solving the problem of bureaucracy is to go into a think box and that within the government a dialogue needs to be started in order to find more holistic solutions. I find it a little difficult to see how going in the think box would solve a bureaucratic problem. However, what I really want to ask the rapporteur is whether the rapporteur will not recognise that there are some places where holistic solutions are needed and where it is not possible to find funding. What is the Left's response to the citizens in those places? What is the Left's answer to the mayors of the municipalities? How will the Left ensure that we can also make holistic solutions where economic capacity is not so large?
ParlaMint-DK_20170126141654	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126141657	But I have recently heard many calls, including in today's debate, from the storm, for us to get on with the dialogue. As the Minister says, you now go into the think box and pick up on the experience, and then you will come up with some proposals. We shall then have to wait and see. But before the summer break. It will be here during the spring, and I think that is a good and responsible way of reacting. It is therefore an emphasis that we in the Left also take seriously the situation to which the rapporteur refers. And, as the rapporteur says, what is the answer to, for example. The ones from Anholt who visited yesterday? It goes without saying that Anholt, with its 137 inhabitants, cannot cope with a huge project. I think we all agree that Anholt should not sink into the sea, as has been said. That has to be taken care of, and then Anholt can't do it alone. So the question is, what can you deal with with the municipality of which you are a part? If, in the end, there are some things that cannot be dealt with in this way, then it must be included in the considerations which the Minister is currently considering. So we can only say that we are well at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126141754	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126141757	I just find it hard to see what it is you need to think box to find out. Because we have just had a coastal analysis. We waited a very long time for this, and it was a very thorough work that was done in the Coastal Directorate to get the coastal analysis done. It points out, of course, what the problem is, that precisely in order to make the holistic solutions there may be a lack of financial capacity in some places to solve the problem, such as: At Anholt. We do not need to look into that any more, it is just as clear, and so I do not quite understand why the Left has the resistance to supporting this proposal. Because it is precisely a solution. I could understand it if they said that this is not the right way to solve it; we have another proposal. But the answer is simply that we want to go into a think box and that we now have to wait until the summer break before a new proposal comes forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126141841	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126141844	But if we take Anholt as an example, it was quite clear about the road that has now been washed away again again: could it not be worth considering whether one should have that road moved a little, so that it might be in a more right place next time? Such things are worth clarifying. In fact, they also admitted that from the municipality and from Anholt, that is, that, yes, it was worth thinking about. There are then some conservation provisions in relation to Anholt, so it is not the case that, as it says on Enhedslisten here, you can just snap with your fingers, and then it's all taken care of. No, there you have to be precise and practical and make it work in reality, so we just get the right solutions done in the right places, also at Anholt.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126141921	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126141924	I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur recognises that it creates extremely great uncertainty among citizens in many places in this country that there is no response to this coastal analysis, which very clearly says what needs to be done, and whether the rapporteur also recognises that it can be extremely expensive if we do not ensure coast safety.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126141941	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126141943	Well, I am also standing here as the rapporteur of the Left and saying that we should take this seriously, and so do we, and action must be taken on it. I have also referred to the process that our minister has announced. So there is a response, precisely in order to arrive at the right solutions, but as has already been said in the answer to the previous question, it is not just to snap your fingers, and then it is done. So I look forward very much to the continued dialogue so that we can arrive at a solution in some places through the methods and opportunities that are available now, and perhaps there could be other places where further action is required. We shall then be able to clarify this very soon. Perhaps there are also some things that can be done locally with the mechanisms that are now and the freedom of method that I hope will be. If, in the end, there are some things you cannot deal with locally, then it must then be the subject of a debate on how it should be put together.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126142034	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126142037	If we cut right to the bone and past the many words, what remains is that a group of experts have done a very, very extensive piece of work on exactly what we have to do, and the Left's answer to the work is that you want to go into the think box, while the citizens have no idea when the next storm will hit. That is what remains.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126142055	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126142057	No, that's not what's left, but it's just not as simple as Enhedslisten says you can just snap your fingers and it's done. We are acting precisely on the basis of the good, thorough work done in the coastal analysis, and we can also point out that we have already adjusted certain things in the legislation • it was done shortly before Christmas and then we also signal that we are following up on the challenges that are now so that we can make the right solutions in the right places. There will, of course, also be some financial challenges that may have to be dealt with in some way, and we will have to take that too. But first, we need to find out what needs to be done, who is responsible for it, who is to come with the game, and then we need to get it coordinated in the end. If you look in the rearview mirror, you can see that there has been a lot of talk and very little action now we are going to do it within a few months, so I think we are on our way.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126142143	The last question to ask is Mr. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126142147	Thank you. I do not remember whether the word used by the rapporteur in his speech was a jar of jelly. But he said that we do not need another piece of advice that will delay the initiatives. I just want to know if the rapporteur does not see that if 400 million is allocated. kr. A year like this, for example. Suggestions, there's some money that needs to be paid off. This means that there is a council that sits and that every year we have to figure out how best to spend this 400 million. kr. Something's gonna happen. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20170126142223	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126142225	Now it was not I who used the word jelly jar, so I think the questioner must address it to others. It has just been said that there is no need for new bureaucratic arrangements to discuss this. What we need now is what we have a government and a minister to do, namely sit down and pick up experience with these things and come up with a proposal, and he has just said that he will do so in a very short time, quite specifically before the summer holidays.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126142251	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126142254	Thank you. Jelly jar was my word. That's right. Bureaucratic, yes. Now I am trying to ask again: is it not true that if you have a piece of advice that has 400 million? kr. A year at its disposal, should there typically be a drain on that money? Then they will be used within the current year. It will give impetus in itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126142316	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126142317	Now I understand from what I have been able to see, although there is a lot, very little described in the proposal made by the Alternative and Enhedslisten, that the financing is rather uncertain, not to say very uncertain. It doesn't even seem certain that you have 400 million. kr. available. So I'd rather go that way, we're discussing what's needed. Who is responsible, what can be done locally? If there are any challenges that cannot be dealt with locally, it must be the subject of discussion and debate in the end, so that we can have secure funding for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126142353	We thank the rapporteur of the Left. The next to speak is Mrs Ida Auken, the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126142403	Thank you very much. Today we are discussing the safety of our coasts, and we are doing so, among other things. Because the Enhedslisten and the Alternative have tabled this motion for a resolution that we are discussing. And I would like to sign for that because I think it is important to keep this political debate really warm and to keep it alive, and I also see this as a pressure on the political leaders who can do something about this. I myself have tried to sit as a minister and make climate adjustment, and that is a gigantic task. It is actually about the whole way our society and our infrastructure are being cared for: we need to think about new things because we have changed weather. And we got really, really far in the time of the previous government. We had a real action plan, we found a new financing mechanism, so that municipalities and supplies could go in and ensure that cities could make real climate adjustment action plans, and we got a lot of people thinking about climate adaptation • from the sewer masters to the gardeners to yes, you name it, to the outdoor people, to the insurance industry in fact. So it's a huge community task. Then it is actually true that in order to take these great steps, there was one step that we did not take, and that was the coasts. However, in order to do the right thing about the coasts, we need to think and have a holistic approach to it. That is why I do not necessarily think that the two most important steps are contained in the motion for a resolution from the Enhedslisten and the Alternative. The most important thing is that we have a minister who sits down for the table end and finds out how to make a real plan for Denmark. I think we should have a coastal plan for Denmark, where we dare say, a little like we said with Nature Plan Denmark, that here are some stretches that we need to have tough protection for, because there are such great values, and some other stretches that need softer protection, perhaps because we want the coasts we know here in Denmark, which are in motion and alive. And in some places there are even public interests where you can just go in and say that it makes very good sense that the state is co-financing in one way or another. Whether it is the state or an insurance scheme, I think it is actually secondary. So until we've got this plan and it doesn't have to be legally binding, but maybe it can work like "Natureplan Denmark" where the municipalities are trying to play a part in how they look at their coastlines, and I'm going to say that you have to try to get it together and make a plan to see if it's related. I think it's hard to say that it should be a piece of advice, that it should be this funding, and that the fund should do just that and that. I would say that one of the things that is urgent in order to get such a coastal plan is to talk about where to build. Because we have the problem that it can be very, very attractive to build down in the first place, but when we then know that we have a weather that means that building there is becoming more and more uncertain, we must be able to have that talk. In other words, if a municipality chooses to say: you have to build right down to the water, of course it cannot be the rest of the community that has to come and pick up the bill. So perhaps we should even dare to look at where to build and whether to build in quota 1 etc. and so on, because it may turn out to be a very large bill you print and sometimes it may be a little difficult for one municipality to say no to something if it knows that the neighbouring municipality is saying yes. So it may also be that it is a place where we need a comprehensive approach, and I hope the Minister will look at that too. The third thing we need is a new financial mechanism. We are not only in favour of this being the model outlined in the motion for a resolution. Now the Folketing decides to impose it on the Minister, and I do not think that is necessarily wise until we have had a number of options. I think it is wise to say that we have the storm river system and perhaps something similar could be found; I understand that this resolution has done so. It's not quite next to the dial, but there may be other ways to do it. Just putting down a bill of 400 million. kr. In other words, the insurance companies are also something people will be able to feel on their bills. So maybe this has to be done in a slightly different way. I would therefore like to say that I fully support the intention. I think it is good that we have the discussion today, I think it is good that we have a pressure, I am just not convinced that it is just these two things. Imagine if we got a majority in favour of this resolution and we actually set something a little wrong. So there I just have to say that I cannot, as a radical, say that these are the two things that need to be done. That is why we cannot vote in favour of the resolution as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126142813	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126142817	Thank you. I would therefore like to acknowledge the comments made by the radical rapporteur on the very intentions of the proposal. Because, as I hear the rapporteur, the rapporteur agrees that when we talk about coastal protection, it is absolutely essential that we have holistic solutions and that we have precisely identified those areas where there are important social interests at stake, so that we can say that we must ensure here whether it is with tough coastal protection combined with sand-feeding or what it is like. There are also some areas where we can say that it is not so important here; here we may have to ensure recreational values precisely that there are opportunities for you to still use a beach. However, I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur would not like to acknowledge that what is in this proposal is merely that we build on what is in the coastal analysis, that is to say that this is actually what the coastal analysis points to, and that this is just an attempt to give concrete shape to the steps that are being pointed out in the coastal analysis.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126142912	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126142915	But I do not think that the coastal analysis is insanely concrete, if I am to be honest. I don't think it's chiseled in neon or steel, or what you're chiseling in these days? Once again, I have to say, a little bit of experience: it just requires that a minister sits at the end of the table here. The most important thing we could get out of today, because the reality out there, if you ask me, isn't that now we're tying the government to do just this and finding 400 million. kr. It is that we are now tying the government to notice that there is a huge pressure from the Folketing that there is a minister who says: I am now simply taking the lead in this. Now we make sure that we have a plan, a financial mechanism, and we also dare to tackle this a little hot potato on how to ensure that it will not be a race between municipalities to allow building in some areas that then have to be cleaned up, because, you might say, they were too unsafe.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126143002	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126143005	But I am in complete agreement with that, and we might well hope that we could get the Minister to commit himself to that promise. It's just not exactly the signals we've been getting so far. The rapporteur is, of course, right in saying that the coastal analysis is not very concrete in pointing out what to do. However, the coastal analysis is so specific that it points to some specific areas where it is said that extreme pressure is being exerted in the coming years. Does the rapporteur not think that it also obliges the Folketing to say that we must at least do something? It's not certain that this is actually the right way to do it. But that is certainly a way to get the debate started, and perhaps we could end up with a joint report on this proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126143044	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126143047	Radicals fully agree that something needs to be done. It can also be said that the coastal analysis shows that there is a burning platform or drift-wet platform, or whatever we should call it "it is really serious' and that something needs to be done now. So that pressure has to be on the minister. On the other hand, I do not think that the Minister has completely shut down and said that nothing should happen now. He's actually opened up, and I think it's better that we try to go in there. We have all made some wishes today, which are some of the things we think should be in it, so now I think it is better to make sure that we keep that pressure on the government and get the Minister to sit down at the table instead of deciding something. Then it has to be said that we will be standing here again in a year's time and nothing has happened, yes, then it may be that we will have to by a majority outside the Minister and with the Danish People's Party we actually have a majority to put pressure on for something to actually happen. But let him and the government try to do what they have actually promised today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126143138	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. The next in the series of speeches is Mr. Knox. Carsten Bach as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126143147	This is certainly a serious issue, and I am actually very pleased that it has been put on the agenda. So thank you to the Alternative and Enhedslisten for presenting the motion for a resolution here. I think we can hear from the debate where you would almost think that we were all a little radical that there is a very great deal of openness to discussing this issue. I would also like to start by signing to the Minister that something new is going to happen in this area. However, the subject of coastal protection and the safeguarding of people and values along the Danish coasts is more or less what one might call a political evergreen. And when I listen carefully, I think I can hear two verses. The first verse is that the process of approval and complaint is far too bureaucratic and slow. It has, of course, a broad majority in the Danish Parliament without the two current proposing parties here. In fact, recently it has also amended the law amending the law on coastal protection. These are changes supported by the Liberal Alliance, which will probably ensure a rather more effective process of establishing holistic coastal protection around Denmark. However, I do not wish to stand here and deny that nothing more can be done in that account and that we should therefore perhaps have the first verse of the evergreen repeated. At any rate, lately I think I have heard a number of mayors around the country sing about that very thing. To the mayors and, incidentally, to the two proposing parties here, I would just like to say that the Liberal Alliance would very much like to sing in that chorus. The problem is that several of the mayors' own party colleagues here at Christiansborg must be regarded as almost tone-deaf in this context. The second verse of the political evergreen on coastal protection is about money. I take it quite for granted that as long as the state does not pay the whole bill, that verse will be repeated and repeated in order to finally almost get the status of a chorus and not a verse. Nor do I wish to deny in this connection that there may be places where the state has to step in for various reasons. I have also noted, as I mentioned earlier, that the Minister and a few of the Minister's colleagues towards the summer holidays will stick their heads together and review the situation again. However, I would also like to say that it is a starting point for the Liberal Alliance that we maintain the existing principle that it is the landowners who pay for coastal protection. I can therefore reject the part of the proposal which concerns a national fund. With regard to the Enhedslisten and the alternative proposal for the creation of a national coastal council with competences to prioritise coastal protection on the basis of so-called objective criteria and to coordinate local coastal protection efforts in cooperation with municipalities, I would say that we really do not need to add an extra bureaucratic layer and extra administration to that. In fact, this is already happening today in cooperation between the Coastal Directorate and the individual municipalities and the individual landowners. The coastal analysis from September 2016 has given us a comprehensive picture of where the risk of flooding and erosion is greatest, and the analysis thus provides an absolutely completely updated basis for identifying and prioritizing coastal areas where there is a need for coastal protection, and therefore also where initiatives can rightly be taken to implement coastal protection as a whole. Overall, therefore, the Liberal Alliance cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126143610	There is a brief comment from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126143614	Thank you. I'd like to ask you a question about economics. Because it sounds to the rapporteur as if it would almost be a chorus for the state to finance everything. Is it the rapporteur's view that this is what the municipalities think is the only solution or that this is what the landowners think is the only solution, or the Enhedslisten and the Alternative, so who is the one who has that view? I myself have referred to an old proposal from the Danish People's Party, and perhaps that is what the rapporteur thinks. But I am thinking that everyone else, including the proposal that we are debating today, is not proposing it. So I would ask the rapporteur to justify this concern. There is also another thing about economics. I would like to ask the rapporteur: what does the rapporteur think will cost the most money? to ensure coast safety where socio-economically making the most sense of getting started as quickly as possible, or to drag the process into delay with the risk that more storms will hit and cause enormous damage? What will be the cheapest for our society? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126143716	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126143720	In relation to the last question by Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding, there should be absolutely no doubt that the Liberal Alliance does not want to drag anything out in this respect, in no way. Nor do I believe that it is the Liberal Alliance that stands in the way of facilitating some of the complaints that are and amending the legislation, so that it may not actually be necessary to complain. In relation to the first, as far as the economy is concerned, what I am referring to is that there are municipalities which, in many contexts, including coastal protection, actually want state funding.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126143806	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126143809	Yes, or perhaps a state cofinancing if you can't afford it yourself. And now that the rapporteur does not want to get in the way, I would say that the coastal analysis points to the need for coherent solutions, because storms and water do not know the boundaries of the municipalities. That may seem annoying, but that is the way it is and therefore makes sense to make sure that things get together, that is to say that we do projects that are cross-cutting. That is what we need now to move forward. Does the rapporteur not think that this sounds like a very good idea, given that the country's main experts are pointing this out?
ParlaMint-DK_20170126143842	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126143845	Yes, I think so, and that is indeed what we have at the moment in the form of the Coastal Directorate and the cooperation that is taking place between the Coastal Directorate, the municipalities and the associations of landowners around the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126143859	The next question is Mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126143902	Thank you. Now I am of the opinion that the rapporteur is also pleased that technologically sound solutions can be made. The coastal analysis suggests that these holistic solutions need to be developed to ensure the best professional result in order to establish coastal protection. There are places where there are pilot owners who really cannot afford to contribute to a solution or where municipalities can be so hard pressed financially that they cannot finance a coastal protection solution precisely because it is extremely costly, not only to establish, but also to maintain. In those cases, it is not a question of the municipalities simply wanting the state to pay, or that the landlords want somebody else to pay. They agree that this is about their own financing, but if we are to ensure from a social perspective that those areas are coast-proof, then there is also a need for state cofinancing. I would just like to hear what the rapporteur's message is to those citizens and municipalities who are actually willing to contribute but do not have the capacity to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126144008	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126144010	As I also said in my speech, I believe that we should stick to the principle that it is the individual landowners who have to finance this. As I also said in my speech, and as I signed up for in connection with the Minister's initiatives, I certainly do not wish to deny that there may be some places for different reasons where there may be state cofinancing in the future. We already have examples of this in the context of the joint agreement on the west coast of Jutland.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126144038	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126144041	I am glad that the rapporteur recognizes this, because there are places where there are significant social interests at stake. It may be a full-year residence in urban areas, or it may be infrastructure facilities that need to be protected. Now, of course, we are putting forward a proposal for concrete funding here, and now that the rapporteur recognises that there may be a need for state cofinancing, could the rapporteur point out where it is then that the rapporteur will find the money for state cofinancing if this is not the solution?
ParlaMint-DK_20170126144103	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126144105	I think that, like several other rapporteurs here today in this debate, I will await the Minister's examination in the inter-ministerial working group, which I think is very good and the statements that come from there, and then we can talk about the economy. Otherwise, there will be an opportunity to renegotiate the joint agreement in, as far as I remember, 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126144135	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. The next in the series of speeches is Mr. Knox. Christian Poll as rapporteur for the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126144145	As co-author, I do not have much need to tell you where we stand, but I would like to take this opportunity to address some of the things that have been debated so far. Sir. Carsten Bach has asked where the 400 million. kr. is from what it is, and it is inspired by the magnitude of the storm river system. It is a bid for a place to start, and the idea is that you see how things are going and how such a coastal council gets priority and what they think needs to be done, and then it may be that that figure has to be adjusted up or down in the second year and perhaps also in the third year and fourth year, so that you find a rental. That's how we think it's gonna work. So it's just a qualified bid for the money that could set something seriously in motion. What I feel a little bit about the debate so far is that everyone in this Chamber seems to think that we are dealing here with an important issue. We are meeting a time when climate change is becoming more and more obvious and where we will need to address good solutions to the construction that is along the coasts of Denmark, and then there are so different approaches to how we get started. I and the alternative are completely open to us doing this in other ways, and I almost have the impression that the most important thing here is who sits at the top of the table, and I would also like to say that I am completely open to who should sit at the top of the table, as long as we have solutions that are more holistic and that give a more objective priority approach to coastal protection at all than what we have today. So is this gonna be something we're gonna have to wait a long time to get started? No, it was up to us, and if we had a majority in favour of this, we could quickly set up a coastal council, and then we would be able to set aside some money, and then the money should already be spent in the first year, and then there will be a new portion of money next year, so it will be possible to get started quickly and create a lot of results if you started this way. We're also excited to see what this inter-ministerial working group is doing instead. We are very pleased that it has created so much positive debate on finding solutions to this so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126144422	There is a brief comment from Mrs Pia Adelsteen, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126144427	Thank you. I would like to ask you something; perhaps there are some words that I simply do not understand. When the rapporteur says that we need to look at an objective priority approach to coastal protection, I simply need to translate it into good, good, useful Danish, as I understand, and I hope the rapporteur can. It's not to be lame or anything, but I need to know what it is. Because I see it as if someone should sit and say: we start with coastal protection there and there. And maybe that's right. I also need to know: when the rapporteur talks about lightning-fast results, because you collect 400 million. kr. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done on this subject. I ask, of course, because I know that there are projects that have been in existence for many years, where there have been procedural complaints and all sorts of complaints about sea and river protection lines and conservations, and I do not know what. We simply have so many lines in Denmark that we can hardly see them. So what are the quick results?
ParlaMint-DK_20170126144537	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126144541	In other words, the objective priority is precisely what we understand by setting up a coastal council. For what often happens today very many places are that you get something started locally, where some people are with and some have some money and want to do something, but everyone can't do it. And some have an idea that there's gonna be rocks there or sand-feeding here. And then it becomes a little random effort, both in relation to where it happens and how long a stretch you make it on etc. And there it is that, with a coastal council, we would just like to make objective priorities. This means looking at the whole of Denmark and saying: Where is the need for what? And then you start where the need is greatest and eat yourself quietly through good and coherent coastal protection projects where it is now considered appropriate. The quick results are, after all, in this context about the fact that if you set aside, for example. 400 million kr. a year, work will typically have to be done to get a drain on that money, and then projects will be set in motion. It is true that as coastal protection works right now, things are not going very fast, and there may be many other reasons for this. But that's not what we're going to address with this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126144657	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126144700	Thank you for your answer. I should just like to ask, and that is in relation to the setting up of a coastal council: will the alternative be used to abolish the Coastal Directorate? As I know, the Coast Directorate now has a travel team that travels around to help people who want to get some projects going, so that holistic solutions are just being made and people who live out there are being talked about what is best in this area. They say they are the experts. That is one question. Then I will say something again in relation to lightning-fast results. Well, I find it hard to see that you can get lightning-fast results. I can see that you scrape some money together, but the lightning-fast results I'm just having a hard time seeing. Is the alternative prepared to remove some of the rules that are, on lines, etc., so that you can just get rid of all the complaints about everything?
ParlaMint-DK_20170126144750	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126144753	It is an important part of our democracy that we can complain. And for me, it's not just to start removing different protection lines in this context. After all, we think we should be one of the actors in such a coastal council, and the difference is that with a coastal council you can have a more general approach to it, where the Coastal Directorate is more concerned with such a matter and says: OK, now there are some who want something here, then we have to look at what it is, and then you help in different ways. We would like it to be turned upside down, so they say: let us now get the players into a council, and then a top priority will be set, and then we will work on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126144833	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. The next rapporteur is Mrs Trine Torp as rapporteur for the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126144842	First of all, I would like to thank the Enhedslisten and the Alternative for putting forward this proposal so that we can have this debate in the Chamber. In the SF we have great sympathy for the proposal and also believe that something should be done in this area. We also very much agree with the intention that the state should take greater responsibility in planning coastal protection than is the case today. However, we believe that we in the Danish Parliament should go a little deeper, and we basically believe that the overall responsibility for adapting Denmark to climate change towards sea rises and more and more violent storms, monster regulations and groundwater increases must lie quite clearly with the government and the Danish Parliament. I am not sure, then, that it should be outsourced to a coastal council, which, moreover, should look only at the part relating to floods from the sea, and not the parts affecting the water that rises from the groundwater or that flows from the rivers and lakes. In connection with the publication of the coastal analysis, we had hoped that the government would not only provide a survey of the problems, but also a prioritization of efforts and some proposals for action. The government did not, and I assume that it is because the government stands firm that it is a municipal task and not a state. And that is where we are very much in agreement with the intention of the motion for a resolution here, namely that it should be more of a state responsibility. As I have said, the SF believes that it is overall a state responsibility to ensure that there is also effective municipal action. It is not to be outsourced to municipalities and pilots by a hundred per cent. On the other hand, landowners, landowners, farmers and the public authorities, who are also landowners, have a duty to co-finance protection according to the benefits derived from funding. We are not going to shake that. A summer cottage primarily on the north coast of Zealand benefits more from coastal protection than a home owner on the Jutland ridge. Former climate and environmental rapporteur for SF, Steen Gade, wrote an article here on 14 January in Altinget, where he best expresses what SF has in mind and what we would like to continue working on. I am quoting here just some of what he writes: Denmark's first municipal climate adjustment plans - decided in 2012 with completion in 2013 - suffer from the lack that the basics are only about cloudbreaking the monster regime. A few municipalities also have risk management plans because they are covered by the EU Flood Directive. What is missing is to link seawater increases towards the year 2100 with the increased rainwater challenges and, moreover, to achieve as much synergy as possible in terms of reducing water pollution from agriculture, creating new nature, physical climate adaptation and improving biodiversity. In other words, a much broader effort than the one we have already set in motion. It says something about what we also think in SF about holistic solutions, namely that it is not only a question of where responsibility should be placed and who has a financial obligation, but that we also think holistic in terms of nature protection, forward-looking. The SF was promoting real legislation on climate adjustment even before the elections, and we continue to believe that it is very relevant to create a comprehensive framework for this huge task for society. That is why we look forward to being able to take this starting point in the work of the committee. We therefore believe that the government should be required to carry out an overall priority of climate adjustment, including, of course, both coastal protection, monster rains and groundwater rise on the basis of objective criteria presented to the Folketing, and preferably before the summer holidays. And the next point is that the government, in cooperation with the municipalities, gives priority to ensuring coordination of local efforts, including the preparation of proposals for major community climate adjustment projects, as well as proposals for the designation of land with high natural value, threatened by frequent flooding, with a view to making plans for nature. And, last of all, we want to see a Commission set up to draft a new framework law on climate change adaptation by 1 October 2017, i.e. a proper climate adjustment law. So we are going so constructively into committee work with the same intention, namely greater state responsibility, but for us we could expand it and spread it even further out so that we could find solutions that we may not have noticed yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126145344	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126145349	Thank you. I would just like to acknowledge the remarks made by the rapporteur in this speech. There is not much we disagree on here, I think, and it is mostly just to say that what we are trying to do with this resolution here is precisely to create more holistic solutions and, in relation to climate challenges, to think more generally. Then the rapporteur is right to say that there are other aspects in the form of monster rains and ascending groundwater that we can easily think about. This is just an attempt to say that we must have a solution that is national and that also involves the municipal effort, but so that we have some holistic solutions and we also ensure that the funding is not only imposed on the citizens who are affected by this challenge, but that it is precisely a national responsibility. And I look forward to that in the committee work we can work with the SF on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126145441	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126145444	That is, in fact, the kindness I am giving, and that is also why I think we should think carefully about funding. Let us say that we now want to have an insurance approach. In fact, I think it would be good to think about whether we could create some common fund, because it is a question of trying to insure against other costs. After all, there must be a distribution that ensures that those who benefit most from the solutions that are created are also the ones who contribute the most. There is what I think, if we pool it with the other climate adjustment challenges that we have, then it may also be easier to find a financing model that holds. So it's just a response to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126145527	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mette Abildgaard as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126145537	Thank you. I think it is clear from the long and good debate we have had on this motion for a resolution that this is a challenge which is widely recognised in the Folketing. There is great political support to say that what we are doing today is not good enough and that we must be able to do more and help better. It has to be said that this debate is also very much on the political stage. Yesterday I spent the whole day in Jyllinge Nordmark, where I was visiting with the rapporteur from the Danish People's Party to learn more about this. After all, a little late consultation is about to take place on this very subject. So this is something that is very much on the political agenda. I also hear, as I have said, that there is a broad recognition of the need for change and that we must do things more effectively than they are being done today. There are too many processes that simply take too long in today's proceedings. There are a number of things that have already been done. On the one hand, a change of law was made back in November which in no way only solves the challenges that exist but which, after all, contributes to the fact that it is not possible to complain about these sub-decisions but, on the other hand, to complain about the final decision. On the one hand, 23 million have been set aside. kr., which will help to bring down the processing time in the Nature and Environmental Complaints Board. There has been a very long process time. There are many matters which the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party also mentioned, which are still waiting for clarification. But it must also be said that even when matters have been dealt with in the Nature and Environmental Complaints Board, there are five or six other bodies that come after. There are conservation boards and there must be an EU offer. There are a number of other elements that come behind, and this also means that some projects may be dragging on for 5, 6, 7 years before a decision is taken. It is a balancing act, because on the one hand we in Denmark like the fact that there is minority protection, that we have the opportunity to complain and that we weigh different considerations, but on the other hand the consequence is also just that there can be quite a few citizens, as is the case in Jyllinge Nordmark, who block 500 homeowners from going to bed at night safe. When we left yesterday, we visited, among other things. A woman, Linnea, who could tell me how her kids got worried every night if it blew outside. Then they didn't want to go to bed at night because they were afraid that it would mean that there would be water again. For the last time, they had to move out of their homes for seven months because their homes were so badly flooded. It is a great insecurity to live with, and that is why we only have a political responsibility to ensure that these cases are dealt with more flexibly. I do not have a complete solution to how we do it, but we have to look at whether some of these processes can run in parallel, whether more decisions can be taken in some individual bodies, so that it does not have to go through so many links. I understand that there are some citizens out there thinking why the hell we can't put the right people on the right table and then make a decision once and for all. I have also heard the Minister say that, in addition to what has already been done, more needs to be done, among other things. a strengthening of the travel team that travels around and advises on coastal protection, and the creation of a new travel team to look at climate adjustment, and then this fast-working government work is under way, where a deadline has been set in the summer of 2017, and I think it is really good that there is, because it gives me a sense of security that this should not be a jar where things are pulling out and should just be allowed to lie down. There are many things that make this discussion complicated. There is the discussion about the tough and soft coast protection. I think I have to say that I do not think this debate is black and white. I recognise that today we are too restrictive in terms of what can be done, but the challenge is also that nothing is allowed for one pilot who pushes the problem to the neighbour, and that is why these overall solutions are so crucial. I do not think it is this coastal council that is being proposed in the motion for a resolution to create these holistic solutions. I have some thoughts on it myself. It is a little non-committal, I say it because I have no ready proposal, but I have had some thoughts myself as to whether the regions could play a part in this work. They are responsible today for such things as soil clean-up and have a lot of municipal cooperation. Could you think that they could play a part in this? It's kind of just a ball I throw up in the air. I think we have a political responsibility to ensure that the goodwill in this area is also translated into political action, and I think it is good that this resolution has been tabled and that we have had the debate today. I do not believe that that is what can solve the challenges we face, and I can also see that many parties have had the same view as me. However, I am glad that we have had the debate, and I look forward to taking part in the work that needs to be done within the government in order to be able to put forward more concrete proposals. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126150040	The first, with a brief comment, is Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126150045	Thank you for a very fine speech by the rapporteur, which gives a little confidence that the government will not stop or that the minister will not stop, either in Mr Beazley's report. Erling Bonnesen's think box or in an inter-ministerial working group, but that there are forces within that will push for something to happen. I noted earlier, in a remark made by the rapporteur to the Social Democrat rapporteur, that there is today state cofinancing where it was considered necessary. But it is not an up-to-date assessment of where it is needed. This is, after all, what the coastal analysis gives us: an up-to-date assessment of where there is a need and where there may also be a need for state cofinancing. Is the rapporteur generally in favour of using the coastal analysis to expand where the state can go in and give a helping hand, where local funding is not possible?
ParlaMint-DK_20170126150144	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126150146	It is quite true that where we support today, it is on the basis of an assessment that was made at the time, of where it makes sense. Since then, we have had a coastal analysis which, of course, provides a new basis for knowledge. And of course you have to take it into the review when you next look at where these agreements are to be made, where we go in and support the state. I am, in effect, open to looking at whether State aid should be distributed differently. The most important thing for me is that there is a logic behind the distribution that is taking place and that it is based on where the need is greatest, where the erosion is greatest and where the task would not be solved unless one went in and supported by the state. However, this is a debate that we must have at that time in 2018 when the agreement that is now in force is no longer in force.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126150232	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126150233	Well, I think it is really exciting if you want to take it further there, and then I think it should also be remembered that it can be the regions, or at least some sort of coordination unit, that ensures exactly what the coastal analysis points out, namely coherent projects, so that it is not the individual landowner who should be responsible for securing his own land, or the individual municipality, so that the problem is simply pushed forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126150256	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126150256-2	My impression of the visit I had yesterday is essentially that what can be incalculable for the individual pilot is coordination, that is planning. You have to remember how many voluntary forces this is pulling from dyke presidents and what else they are called out there, who have a huge responsibility. In fact, I do not think it is the economy, but that is not what I hear the Enhedslisten's rapporteur say either. Often you can make some solutions. I heard an example yesterday. For example, you might have paid 300 kroner. of the month for 25 years, and that is the way it is financed. Of course, there must be some solutions for the individual.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126150329	The next question is Mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126150332	Thank you. I would also like to acknowledge the rapporteur's speech. We already know that, with climate change, this is a problem that is going to get bigger. That is why I also believe that the issue of having to take some money from the joint agreement and distribute it more widely is probably not the right solution, because we must expect that the need to make solutions around us will be increasing. As is the case today, there are often individual projects. After all, Jyllinge Nordmark is an example in which a group of citizens have jointly taken responsibility and made a holistic solution. It is a very good example of how this can be achieved in some places, but in many areas it is a problem that it will be a few basic owners' associations that join together in a project and we will have those isolated solutions that actually create major problems. How does the rapporteur think we should be able to secure these more holistic solutions without going in and creating a more governing body in relation to where holistic solutions are needed and can also help to ensure state cofinancing there?
ParlaMint-DK_20170126150440	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126150441	There were several different elements in it. Let me start with this with the joint agreement. It may well be that next time you will have to come up with a joint agreement covering more than this 300 million. kr., as the previous agreement has done. I am quite open to that, but like everything else in politics, it is a question of whether the money can be found and whether there is political will to prioritise it. In terms of how you can make these overall plans, if you don't have a government body to do that, I would say that we have a Coastal Directorate today, and they have the task of going in and advising on this type of matter. I have heard many people say that over the years they have been a little frustrated by the Coast Directorate because they think the Directorate has been difficult to communicate with, and I also know that much work has been done and continues to be done in the Coastal Directorate, and that is probably an important task there. However, it is important to say that the state must also be able to contribute to this process, for example. with these travel teams that go in and advise on how to make these holistic solutions. It is so important when you make an overall solution, as you have done in Jyllinge Nordmark, that it should not necessarily take so many years, from idea to security becomes reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126150541	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126150542	Now it is also my impression that a very good and thorough piece of work is being done in the Coastal Directorate, but the Coast Directorate has not had the task of securing holistic solutions. They have had the task of examining the requests for coastal protection that came in, so it has been the case that citizens have sent an application for a specific project which the Coastal Directorate has then had to decide on. After all, the Coastal Directorate has not had the opportunity to go in and recommend more landowners' associations to go along with or to secure some common financing scheme; the more it has been extended to the municipalities. It is the more to ensure that they have the coordinating role to play in order to create the holistic solutions that we know are the right solutions for professionals. Does the rapporteur have a different view of this? The rapporteur himself mentioned that it could involve the regions... is this the way the rapporteur thinks you can go rather than having to create a national coastal council?
ParlaMint-DK_20170126150631	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126150632	As I understand the task of the Coastal Directorate, they have the opportunity today to go in and advise and not only make decisions, so that they are also involved in the process that leads to a decision being taken, and there they have to think in terms of overall thinking. After all, this travel team I was talking about before has to think about the whole thing. But I think it is an exciting idea that the regions could also play a role in this - I could be quite open to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126150657	The next question is Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126150702	Thank you. I would like to acknowledge that the rapporteur has had some thoughts on the subject and also has enough confidence in it. The rapporteur should not laugh about it, it was actually quite serious about the high thing by sharing those thoughts. I think that makes sense. After all, it is exciting whether the regions can be made to play a more constructive role. We are very willing to discuss this. I also took note of the fact that the rapporteur clearly stated that it is probably inappropriate that the best argument for the lion's share of state funds to be spent in one place is primarily a historical argument; that should be looked at. But could the Conservatives give some thought to the issues raised in the air, to the regions and to the more central planning of state funds? Should we shoot it for a year before we start talking about it, or could it be sensible for the government to take up the glove and start acting more, including parliamentary ones, on the information that has emerged in the coastal analysis and that we got ourselves together on a table and have these things negotiated?
ParlaMint-DK_20170126150808	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126150809	First of all, thank you for the nice words. And then I would like to say that there is actually enough work to be done in this area. There is both this whole complaint process, which is one of the things that will be looked at towards the summer holidays, and which plays a central role in relation to this one. It's one of the things you're going to throw yourself over very quickly, but also this one with the different travel teams. As far as the economy is concerned, it depends on the conclusion of a financial agreement whereby money is set aside for this. We are debating finance law in the autumn, and it would be a good idea to include it there. But it must also be said that we have now reached an agreement that runs until 2018, and we must, of course, stand by that politically. That's the way it is. Then, of course, when you make a new agreement, you have to consider how to screw it up, and there I am just open and say that it may well be that there are things that have to be different compared to how they have been so far, but everything in due course. I really think that we have a responsibility in the first place to remove the obstacles to projects which have been financed and for which there is local support, but which are awaiting a state decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126150906	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126150908	Indeed, it is also my view that we should remove bureaucratic blockages, which we have also spoken about today, and I actually sense that there is reasonable support for that too. Nor can I say that it would be a good idea for us to terminate the agreement on the west coast of Jutland. But you could, of course, sit down and look at whether there is funding that is not necessarily financial law funding and whether other solutions could be found and, at all, have a more direct dialogue between the parties. Is there not really a need here for us to go in and find some money and have a talk about whether there are concrete projects that have such a character that it does not make sense to talk about the municipalities having to lift it themselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20170126150949	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126150950	After all, this is a perfectly fair discussion, which I am certainly also open to, and I am happy to do so. I think that is both interesting and important. In relation to the West Coast, I would just like to say that it is going to sound as if it is only historically conditional on support there, but it is also because there is a professional assessment that it is the place in the country where the risk of erosion is greatest, or at least it has been for a number of years. The assessment I remember is that if you don't do something and do this sand-feeding, you'll disappear 8 meters a year. And then there are bets, for example. on Lolland-Falster, which I also mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126151025	The next question is Mr. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126151028	Thank you. After all, it is always a pleasure when Mrs Mette Abildgaard is on the floor today, because some of the things I have missed here in the Danish Parliament in the short time I have been here are political developments in the Chamber, and the thoughts ran away when the rapporteur mentioned that perhaps the regions could be thought into this work. Because there is obviously a reluctance to have a new state agency, that is, this coastal council that we are proposing, which must have a role. But let us move it further out, and let us try to see if we can create a coordinating effort at regional level, where you have the opportunity to think across municipalities, but are closer to where it is going. I would just like to urge that we continue to discuss where this is best suited. But thank you for the suggestion.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126151121	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126151122	Thank you very much for that to the Alternative's rapporteur. I think it is an exciting idea with the regions. I am also aware that it is not perfect, understood in the sense that we have now a little discussed the case with Jyllinge Nordmark, where, for example, we have discussed the case with Jyllinge Nordmark. is in the situation that Roskilde Municipality belongs to Region Sjælland, whereas Egedal belongs to the Capital Region, and how do you do it in such situations? So there are also problems with that. But I think it is interesting to try to throw what we have into the air and see how we can make it more appropriate. So thank you also for giving rise to this through the motion for a resolution today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126151200	Sir. Christian Poll, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126151203	Indeed, it can be said that the regions with the soil pollution cases are accustomed to dealing with 400 million. kr. a year to the kind of cases where you go in and prioritise. When we propose the National Council, it is precisely because there will always be barriers when you try to cut Denmark into smaller bites, and that is why we have proposed it nationally. But if it cannot be reverberated, perhaps we can meet somewhere, and that could be the regions. So thank you again for that suggestion.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126151233	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126151234	I take that as a comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126151239	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then I give the floor to the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126151245	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank you for the debate and for the comments that have been made. I shall come back to them a little later. When it is the case that the Enhedslisten and the Alternative have put forward this proposal, it is primarily because we are calling for political action, namely political action after the Government's coastal analysis came in September; political action after this winter's storms, which is a repeat event; political action after thousands of citizens have had to fear for their house and home; political action after hundreds of emergency workers have had to fight the water masses with temporary solutions. This is a totally untenable situation. The Government's coastal analysis identified the areas that will in future be most exposed to coastal degradation and erosion. The coastal analysis pointed to one of the consequences of climate change, rising water levels and stronger and more frequent storms. 100-year events turn into 20-year events, 20-year events turn into 5-year events, and 5-year events turn into annual events. These are the extremely tangible and concrete and direct consequences of the climate change that the government still lacks the political will to understand the extent and respond to. The clear recommendations of the coastal analysis are that there is a need for coherent solutions that often extend through several municipalities. Today, the legislation is such that it is municipalities and pilots who have to finance solutions individually or jointly. It is the economic capacity that determines where coast safety is to be ensured. It is not necessarily where they do the greatest good or have the greatest importance for society, but where there is economic capacity and will. That is why we have seen small and incoherent plants that have often caused secondary problems on neighbouring lines. Therefore, it is intended to establish a national solution, namely a national coastal council with the participation of state, municipality, landowners and interest groups such as the United Kingdom. Denmark's Conservation Association. It must be a coastal council which can draw up a national coastal zone strategy that takes account of the fact that the areas to be safeguarded are where there are major societal interests at stake, such as: full-year residence in urban zone or infrastructure facilities. A coastal fund should be attached to the Coastal Council, which can co-finance solutions with municipalities and pilot owners. So where the need is great, but where the economic capacity is not present, coast safety can also be ensured without knocking the bottom out of the municipal or private economy. Because we have to recognise that it is a shared responsibility, just as it is a shared responsibility to ensure essential public interests, it is a shared responsibility to free those areas where there are recreational or natural considerations to take. Those areas will be available for purchase and intended for nature. Landowners who may be affected by non-security would be able to receive compensation for loss of land value so that they can establish themselves elsewhere. The coastal fund will receive its funds from an increase in the damage insurance tax, which would generate revenue of 400 million. kr. It will be more solidarity funding that reflects the fact that this is a social problem. It is important that we keep in mind that coastal protection will always be a temporary solution. If climate change is not limited, in a few generations, areas that are now habitable will no longer be. Nature is dynamic and cannot be limited. However, coastal protection can give us time to plan an infrastructure that takes account of future developments. I would then like to comment on some of the comments that have been made here during the debate. I would like to sign up to the comments made by the Social Democrats, Radicals and the SF, all of which agree with the main thrust of this proposal. I am quite sure that in the further work of the committee we can find a joint report. I would also like to make a call to the Danish People's Party. Now there is a little time for us to start the committee work, but I have a really, really hard time understanding it, as the Danish People's Party is presenting itself and it is probably also with some right-wing fighters in the whole coastal safety debate that, when we have a concrete proposal on how we can solve this problem, it would appear that the Danish People's Party would rather get rid of it, as Mr. Erling Bonnesen calls for a think tank or to go into a think box, and what the Minister says about finding mechanisms that work, that a travel team needs to be set up and that we need an inter-ministerial working group. But that does not sound to me like a dispute with bureaucratic thinking. It sounds more like what we have heard before when we talked about the coastal analysis, namely that we have to wait, and now we have to see what the coastal analysis says, and then we have to do something. Now we have had the coastal analysis, but now we have to wait more for what an inter-ministerial working group that is placed in a think tank arrives before we can start acting on this. In fact, I think we owe it to the citizens who will be affected to the citizens who are now waiting for the next storm to come and those who do not know when to call them next to help with a temporary solution, an answer. And I think this is an offer of an answer. I understand you don't think this is the right thing to do, but then you have to come up with something else. I do not think that the fact that we should go into a think box is a real answer. I think we need some concrete solutions. Therefore, I would like to call on the Danish People's Party to perhaps try to go a little more openly into the committee work that is coming and see if we can jointly arrive at a joint report that allows us to agree that it is now time for action to be taken behind the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126151833	There is a brief comment from Mrs Pia Adelsteen, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126151837	Thank you for that and also thank you for the conclusion of the rapporteur. I must admit that I find it very, very hollow when Enhedslisten's rapporteur says that political action is now needed and that this is a concrete proposal for a solution to the problem. I would like to ask the rapporteur what the actual situation is, because this proposal does not change anything at all if Jyllinge Nordmark wants that project to be done out there. This proposal doesn't change that. On the contrary, if this proposal were adopted, I could imagine seeing in this objective steering group, as proposed, Jyllinge Nordmark was considered to be already a Natura 2000 area, and where there are sea and river protection lines, and I must come after you to be so valuable a nature so that you would lay down all the homes out there. I imagined that would be the case. So I would like to ask: where is the specific point in this proposal? When can you get to do some coast protection?
ParlaMint-DK_20170126151942	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126151944	I can now hear that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party can imagine a great deal. An area consisting of a full-year residence situated in the urban area, which has been there for 50 years or more, will be regarded as a major social value which must, of course, be protected. Then the rapporteur is quite right that this proposal does not solve anything in relation to Jyllinge Nordmark. They're actually really good at it. They have done a huge job out there, and we hope they can get to the end of it, but there are just many other areas in Denmark where you are exactly facing this challenge. I think the rapporteur should try to listen a little to the mayors in North West Jutland, to the mayor also in Roskilde, the mayors of Zealand. The rapporteur can take the area south of Copenhagen, in other words towards Køge, where there are housing in urban areas where there is also a need to make a holistic solution. These are precisely the areas that are at stake. We must be able to provide concrete solutions there, and this is very concrete, because it provides for specific national cofinancing, and that is what they are asking for, because that task should not be put on their shoulders alone. They must help pay for it, but it is also a national task. At least in the past, the rapporteur has advocated this, and I can say that we are in complete agreement, and I would hope that the rapporteur would stand by the positions of the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party at the time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126152107	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126152110	But I just don't think I got the answer to the question. The Enhedslisten will not vote to remove some of these bureaucratic process complaints. The Enhedslisten voted against. Roskilde Municipality did not tell me about the project about Jyllinge Nordmark and said that you lack money. I'm not familiar with that. I know Anholt has been visiting, but there are plenty of places, lots of projects where the projects have been made with consultation money spent on the experts and everything where they just lie, but they are denied. Where does this proposal give a concrete opportunity for these projects to get under way? It is not a question of money, it is a question of being allowed. When are these people gonna be allowed?
ParlaMint-DK_20170126152200	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126152202	That is precisely what a national coastal protection strategy must ensure, and when the rapporteur says that it is not about money, I think that the rapporteur should try to go out and talk to some of the landowners who have spent hundreds of thousands of dollars on drafting consultant reports. I think that, for them, it is also a question of money, and for them, this will be a very concrete solution to say that it is not a question of them having to post hundreds of thousands of kroner in private consultant reports, it is a question of a national body identifying the areas where coast protection is required. Of course, they do not need to spend hundreds of thousands of dollars on that in order to get a refusal to do so. Therein lies a huge improvement. What this is all about is ensuring a national, holistic solution, and that is actually what is being asked for.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126152246	The next question is Mr. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126152250	Thank you. Now Jyllinge Nordmark has been made a very concrete example in this Chamber today, and I think there are also listeners in the Chamber who think it is a very exciting example. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten quite specifically: what is the rapporteur's view of the issue of coastal protection in Jyllinge Nordmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20170126152314	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126152315	It is, of course, that there have been extremely long processing times in the Board of Appeal. And most recently, we've seen that the Board of Appeal has been moved. We have had other complaints in the past, and we have also had this in North Jutland, where there are private citizens who have put granite blocks in Natura 2000 areas and where we have had to wait several months and sometimes this year for a decision. It has clearly been a matter of the fact that it has not been a priority to ensure a speedy processing time in the Board of Appeal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126152346	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126152347	Thank you for your answer. I am surprised that the Enhedslisten recently chose not to vote in favour of the amendment to the coastal protection law. And it now sounds as if Enhedslisten has actually changed his mind and, as I also said in my rapporteur's speech, I certainly do not prevent us from changing some of the issues surrounding bureaucracy and legislation that are blocking genuine coastal protection projects. Has Enhedslisten changed his mind and perhaps now wants to enter into a dialogue about a change of law?
ParlaMint-DK_20170126152426	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126152427	No, Enhedslisten does not, and it is for the simple reason that the problem with the bill was precisely that the citizen involvement was limited. And the example of Jyllinge Nordmark was, in fact, that if it were the case that the Danish Nature Conservation Association had been involved in the past, some of the complaints that instead resulted in the complaint ending up in the Nature and Environmental Complaints Board could in fact have been answered. If it were the case that an earlier involvement of the stakeholders had just been ensured, which was precisely the problem in relation to the previously mentioned bill and the reason why both the Alternative and Enhedslist voted against, then that issue could have been overcome. However, if you want to avoid complaints, you must, of course, ensure the early involvement of the other citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126152515	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126152532	The debate is open. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). Bjarne Laustsen as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126152601	Thank you, sir. President. With this proposal, the government wants to secure support for Denmark to make a contribution to the conflict with the terrorist group ISIL or IS, which most and the media probably call the organisation. This is not the first time that the Folketing has to decide on the deployment of troops and equipment in the Mediterranean region, and this time the aim is to provide support for the military air operations against the IS. Surely nobody can benefit from the fact that this proposal is not being adopted because IS poses such a great threat to the Middle Eastern peoples, primarily in Iraq and Syria, as are the current targets of the attack. It is important that Denmark can contribute in different ways, and even if this happens on the back of our withdrawal of our F 16 contribution home, I think it fits well into the portfolio of possible deployments. And this time it's our Navy that can support the carrier group that we're already part of. Thirty-one countries are involved. I think it works fine that so many nations can work together on a joint project. After all, no country alone can fight the IS, and we have to do this together. So we in the Social Democratic Party think it is good that we can send out a contribution that can help to support and defend in various ways the hangar group that is there, but can also help to create a picture of the air operations that are taking place in the area down there. This is about that it's about. 150 men, we send out and the economy can be kept within the defence budget in proportion to the funds set aside in the reserve for international tasks. So in the Social Democratic Party we think it is essential that we from the Danish side also contribute to the task of combating international terrorism, and we think that it is a great contribution that our fleet can make. In addition, it will also be good that our strengths are always updated to be able to work with others. So this task is made up of many parts, and I understand that the mandate you are given here is a fairly broad mandate. But if there are changes, the government will come back to both the Foreign Policy Name and the Folketing, and we are very pleased with that, so that we can follow the operation closely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126152837	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126152841	Thank you. I should just like to ask the Socialist rapporteur whether the Socialist rapporteur is aware that we have received a request from someone to send a contribution. It could, for example, be done. be from the United Nations or NATO or the United States or the Iraqi Government or the Syrian opposition groups. Is the Social Democratic Party aware that we have received such a request?
ParlaMint-DK_20170126152907	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126152908	I am not aware of exactly what representations have been made. I believe that we in Denmark have been asked to contribute material. And so we do.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126152920	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126152921	It is formulated as that we have been asked by the Danish side to contribute material. What is the concrete contribution in this context that we have been asked for? What specific approach has been taken to this specific contribution?
ParlaMint-DK_20170126152939	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126152940	I do not know what exactly has been asked and who has asked. My view is that we have been asked whether we can contribute to the group, the Combined Maritime Forces, and so we do. If the questioner wants further information and, if necessary, can be provided by the government, I think it would be good to ask questions during the committee work. Because what the rapporteur has said is essential. Over the last 20 years, I have been a member of the Folketing, we have been asked whether we can contribute in different ways. There has been a broad view in the Folketing that we should be there where we can make a difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126153025	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next speaker is Mrs Marie Krarup as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126153033	Thank you. I can make that very brief. The Danish People's Party supports the resolution. We do so for two reasons. We think it is good to contribute to the fight against the Islamic State. It can only go too slowly to defeat them. The second reason is that we support the Navy's desire to train their ability to enter a fleet formation, which may be the technical term, so that the Navy exercises the ability to cooperate with our allies. For the two reasons, we welcome B 56.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126153119	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Next in line, sir. Erling Bonnesen as rapporteur on the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126153134	Thank you. Since the usual rapporteur of the Left cannot be present now, I have promised to make the points of view of the Left, and I can also make this relatively brief, because we are fully in line with the two previous rapporteurs. If you want to put a few extra words on it, I would say that we are in an uncertain security policy situation, and the frigate here can help make an important contribution in the operational field, so it is quite natural that we in Denmark should of course be involved, so that the Left can fully support it. The background can be briefly described. In a resolution back in November 2015, the UN Security Council stated that ISIL constitutes a global and unprecedented threat to international peace and security, as well as that ISIL has the ability and intention to carry out further terrorist attacks. That is why an international coalition of 68 countries, more than 10 from the region itself, has gone to battle with ISIL in Iraq and Syria, and Denmark should support that fight. Denmark has contributed aircraft in the past, and we will now contribute a frigate that will be part of an American-led carrier group. The frigate's tasks will be limited to the defence of the carrier group and airspace coordination. The Defence Intelligence Service has stated that the service does not have any information about specific threats to the Danish frigate, as well as that the threat level here in January 2017 is assessed as low or medium during the voyage. Except are periods of coastal sailing off Egypt, where the terrorist threat, like in Egypt in general, is high. Finally, participation in the carrier group will also develop and train the Navy's ability to engage in joint operations with other NATO members. So, on this basis, the Left supports the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126153337	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Well, that's the ride to sir. Søren Søndergaard as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126153345	Thank you, President. The Government's proposal to send a Danish military contribution to an American carrier group is remarkable on several points, including: because, as I have been informed, no one has asked for the contribution, nor have the Americans. It is also remarkable because it is so clear that the Danish contribution makes no difference whatsoever. It doesn't make any difference. We can send the contribution, or we can not. The difference is the same. But what is the real reason for what is being proposed? There are two reasons. First of all, the government would like to send a signal to the United States that we are with you all the way. We are more kingly than the king, plus royales que le roi, as I believe it is called in French. Secondly, the reason is to train the Navy's ability to perform more complex tasks. This is written directly in the text. Those are the two reasons. Firstly, on the signal, I simply cannot imagine a worse time to send a signal to the Americans about submissiveness than just now. This applies both to the minority of the American population who voted for Trump and to the majority who did not. Just take today's newspapers, where Trump declares himself prepared to use torture, which will of course not only be used against the guilty, but also, of course, against those who you think are guilty but who then turn out to be innocent. If we were to send a signal to Trump from this Parliament, it should be that he certainly cannot count on our support when it comes to human rights violations. Looking at the disaster that developed in connection with the Iraq war and our silence in relation to Abu Ghraib and all the other things that were denied from this platform in this Parliament, we should have learned the lesson. Second, there's the training value. I'm sorry, but there's actually a war on the Islamic State. Should we give priority to training or priority to helping people on land who are actually fighting the Islamic State, while at the same time trying to build a society characterised by more religious tolerance, more equality between men and women and more social justice? I myself have visited the kind of freedom fighters in Syria on the front line where the fight against the Islamic State is being waged. I've seen how these young men and women are conducting the fight under miserable conditions. They use rubber shoes in snow and frost, no helmets, no fragmentation vests or other safety equipment, not to mention sufficient armor or ammunition. It is they who, with great victims, are leading the battle on the ground to protect, among other things. We in Denmark against the Islamic State. And then we send a naval vessel, which no one has asked for, to the delight of Trump to sail around the Mediterranean to be trained. In the view of the Enhedslisten, this is a completely crazy priority. We cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126153738	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126153743	I would like to understand Enhedslisten correctly. So we have to drop participation here in the fight against the Islamic State because we don't like Donald Trump. I have to admit, I don't understand. I don't think that Mr. Donald Trump has been able to deal quite a lot with this contribution in his so far 5-6 days as president. I doubt that it has been at the top of his list, so that it is specifically to please him that this contribution is decided. I think it's been going on for a while. Finally, I do not think it should be expected that if the Navy crew here is not sent, there will be more help on land. The sailors here can do it, they can sail a frigate but they will hardly be fit to deploy as land forces to help the Kurds or anything else. So I do not think that the reasons for Enhedslisten here are really coherent. I can see that one can criticise things and that one can have a very hard line against Trump, but it may not be right here that we have to say that because we do not like him, we should drop the fight against IS or the military alliance with the United States. It seems a little hasty.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126153852	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126153854	The only thing, sir. Rasmus Jarlov could not deduce from my speech was that we should drop the fight against Islamic State. It was simply completely impossible to learn from the speech. It can't be done. Okay, well, sir did it anyway. Rasmus Jarlov is impressive. But, of course, it is a matter of priorities. We decide to use a number of millions of kroner, which we have on the defence budget in reserve, because it is an extra million kroner, to send a warship which no one has asked for and which makes no visible difference. That is what we are saying: that money should be spent on something else. They should, for example. used for proper shoes, for fragmentation vests, for helmets etc. to the people who are actually fighting against the Islamic State. That is to take the fight against the Islamic State seriously, I say to Mr. Rasmus Jarlov. That's being irresponsible.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126153944	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126153947	I am glad that we then agree that we must continue the fight against the Islamic State. I think Denmark does, too. We are making a very, very big contribution. So I am sorry that we have wrongly deduced the position of Enhedslisten on that point. The fact that we then disagree on how to conduct the fight and whether to equip different groupings with equipment is well known.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126154009	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126154011	I'll look forward to that, sir. Rasmus Jarlov, when it's sir. Rasmus Jarlov's turn to be allowed to stand here and present the text, explaining how the contribution that Denmark is sending makes a difference in the fight against Islamic State how it makes a difference There will be no difference. Whether we send it or not, exactly the same thing will happen, whereas the proposals I have put forward here will make a difference, for no one else does. But I look forward to Mr. Rasmus Jarlov's interpretation of the text when the time comes.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126154048	The next question is Mr. Bjarne Laustsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126154051	Thank you. We understand Enhedslisten's view that this is a superfluous contribution. We understand that. However, the rapporteur spent a great deal of time in his speech telling us that when Trump had been deployed, it would have been even worse, and it would have been better if we focused on something else. There was very little talk about the fight against ISIL being important that it is important to combat the terrorist organisation and that Denmark should be involved in it. I don't know how Enhedslisten feels about it. I hear lots of different other suggestions. However, if it does not matter, I would have liked to say who is the President of the United States, in relation to whether or not we are going to help fight a terrorist organisation such as ISIL?
ParlaMint-DK_20170126154129	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126154130	Yeah, the two things aren't really connected at all. But that's just because it's been used in the government's argument, that's why it's being said that it's also about our alliance with the United States. I do not think we should make a contribution to underline our alliance with the United States. I think we should send a contribution for one single reason: it makes a difference in the fight against the Islamic State. It is just that I note that this contribution makes no difference in the fight against the Islamic State. We could use that money better to make a difference. I have mentioned what and that proposal we will of course maintain.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126154207	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126154208	Thank you. It is also good that the Enhedslisten makes a proposal on how to do both some humanitarian things and many other different things, and that is certainly what we need. But that does not mean that the Danish Navy can participate with a frigate, as is proposed in this proposal from the government. We think it fits well into all the other different tasks we have had. Here it is the case that you keep keen on being able to engage in operations with others, because we never leave alone. We always leave with others. That is why it is also important for us to be able to carry out the tasks that exist in connection with this broadcast here. That is what I think we need to recognise from the Enhedslisten in relation to this. I assume that one has the same attitude in the Enhedslisten, whether it had been Hilary Clinton who had won or whether it was • Trump who won.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126154252	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126154254	It is only a matter of priorities. As I mentioned, when you have been in Syria on the front line to the Islamic State and joined with the people who are actually fighting against the Islamic State, and seen what equipment they have when you hear their stories about how many of them get hurt and made uncombatable by ordinary artillery grenades, because some small fragments blow through the air and hurt people, so they have to be taken with the fight when you've talked to those people, it actually worries you that they don't have helmets, that they don't have fragmentation vests, that they don't have boots in winter. That kind of thing interests you. It also interests one that they do not have sufficient armament, that they do not have sufficient ammunition. Denmark could make a difference instead of doing something where we really do not make any difference in the fight against Islamic State.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126154348	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next speaker is Mr. Carsten Bach as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126154356	Thank you. As I see the proposal here, by including the frigate Peder Willemoes in an American hanger ship group, two birds can be beaten with one stone. Directly there will be training and competence building for the crew on board the frigate, which will increase the future opportunities for the Navy and thus also Denmark to contribute to NATO. The main task of the carrier during the period is air attacks on ISIL in Iraq and Syria, where also Danish fighter aircraft previously contributed directly to the operation, and with the proposal here, Peter Willemoes will make a more indirect contribution to the international coalition's fight against ISIL. On top of this, Peder Willemoes will be able to support operations under the CMF, such as combating piracy and strengthening general maritime security in the area. The Liberal Alliance therefore supports the proposal and, as far as I am aware, the Navy is acting quickly in this respect and is almost in these minutes on the way from Korsør to join our American allies, if there is a majority in favour of the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126154516	Thank you to the rapporteur. Next in line, sir. René Gade as rapporteur for the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126154522	Thank you. In the alternative, we have always been quite certain that we cannot contribute to this proposal. There are several reasons for this. Firstly, we have always opposed the efforts and coalition that Denmark is part of in Iraq and Syria. Secondly, it is the priority that the Enhedslisten has also mentioned in the past. In any case, I usually refrain from mixing pears and bananas together, but here I would actually say that when it is not something that has been imposed on us and that is how I have understood it, although there was no one from the alternative at the meeting in question who was informed of it, because unfortunately we could not be there, this is a real priority. And when we don't accept quota refugees or even think about not doing it for the first time in many, many years we've done it longer than my lifetime... then I start mixing pears and bananas together. Because this is about security, and quota refugees are another thing. But things are still connected here. And I simply cannot understand why we choose to send a military contribution while we are in a situation where we say no to quota refugees. Having said that, I would also like to make it clear that in the alternative we are in favour of combating ISIL. We may disagree about the methods and what works and how to bring peace to us. But, of course, ISIL must be combated. We are very uncertain whether you have a plan, and it is not just Denmark, because it is by no means Denmark that does it alone, but whether the coalition has a plan for what should happen when you have ensured that ISIL is not present locally anymore. We must hope that this will happen at some point, and we hope that it will be primarily the local forces that will do so with our support in one way or another. But that plan has just not been there, and I remember when I was in a debate a long time ago, and a rapporteur from one of the government-led parties said that there was no plan for six months in the future. It is also a very complex situation, but I do not see that that plan has come about by the last two contributions, Phases I and II, which have been sent further, most recently with special forces. I can't see it's changed. I do not see that there are others left who can inspire hope for those who would unite as better powers than ISIL. Assad is still missing, and it is a very complex task. Therefore, it is not something that we should directly define whether we should say yes or no to, i.e. this mission. We actually think it's good to train the defense and the Navy, so we have a defense, and the defense has to train, otherwise we couldn't have defended. That's why we were wondering for a moment about what kind of percentage we were actually going to contribute. However, the mere fact that a conflict is being contributed to which we have always spoken out, means that we cannot be in favour. The other maritime tasks in which we also have to take part are actually very positive, but we cannot mix this up with a war effort that we have always been opposed to. So it is the priority that we think is completely wrong. This is a choice from Denmark. It is not something that has been imposed on us. There could have been a completely different humanitarian and infrastructure priority in those countries that are experiencing a terrible crisis right now. And you don't choose to do that here, so the alternative says no.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126154857	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126154903	The previous point on coastal protection took much longer than it had been calculated, so the Radical Left's foreign rapporteur, Mr. Martin Lidegaard, unfortunately, was prevented from being here. That is why I should just like to say quite briefly that we support this resolution in the Radical Left. In our view, this will help Iraq and the Iraqi army to take back power over their country and thus this decision will also differ from the other decision taken by the government on Syria. Because in Syria, it is very uncertain who will be able to take power if you have combated the Islamic State. The situation is quite different in Iraq, where there is a state and where there is an army that will be able to take over and thus help to free the Iraqis and give them back their freedom. So we support this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126155005	Mr President, there is one brief comment. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126155010	Well, just for the record, I would like to say that both the decision to extend the mandate of the Special Forces to be able to operate in Syria and the decision here today to contribute a frigate to a carrier group is about fighting the same enemy, called the Islamic State, which operates in Iraq and Syria. You cannot wage such a war against the Islamic State, where you only fight them in one country, because it is the same organisation that works together, and if you give them an Helle in Syria, they will also be able to operate into Iraq. That is why, in my view, it is illogical for Radicals to set that limit and say that we should only fight them in Iraq and thus allow them to retire a few kilometres across the border and get a helmet there.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126155058	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126155100	We are voting in favour of this motion for a resolution on the frigate. The other thing that has been decided by the government is that Danish special forces must enter Syria and fight the enemy. And we have not been able, we think, to get a proper answer on who will then take power in the area where the Islamic State has been repressed and that is why we have withdrawn the support for that part.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126155127	There are no more brief comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's line to Mr Beyer de Ryke. Holger K. Nielsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126155143	When I had to take a position on this proposal, I thought of a time when Mr. Niels Helveg Petersen of the Radical Left was to deal with a matter where he said: Well, well, boom, boom. Frankly, I find it difficult to take a position on this, and I find it difficult to see the deeper meaning of this resolution, I have to say that I do. And there are a number of other rapporteurs who have also been up to say something about this, and I am counting on us to have a first comment from the ministers on it. What I think it is important to clarify is whether this is anything and more than that the Navy wants to show the flag, waving its ears, and they want to say that, we are all aware of that and that we want to make sure we have some points in the Pentagon. Is that more than that? Is there someone who can be called added value in that? Do we contribute to anything extra by sending this frigate? Does the hangar crew get anything out of the fact that we're also involved in this operation? I think that is important in itself to clarify whether this is serious or whether it is an extended military exercise and a little kitty in relation to the United States. And I expect that to be clarified in the committee work, including how much of this is about the fight against ISIL, and what much is about the fight against piracy, i.e. the second part of the task that this carrier group is dealing with. I also find that interesting to clarify, including how many pirates have actually been caught and in contact with in recent years. We have previously supported the fight against piracy, because we think this is important in relation to Denmark being a maritime nation and having a responsibility in relation to civil shipping being able to operate. And that is why it is a clear national interest to take care of it. But how much of this operation is about it? I think that is essential to clarify that. Finally, I would like to make a correction to the radical rapporteur. It is obvious that this is not just about Iraq; it is about both Iraq and Syria, because the operation, and especially the American approach, does not isolate itself to Iraq, and we will be involved in the whole operation, not at the sharp end, as far as I can see. This is how information collection and our radar systems are to be used, etc. But it cannot be confined to Iraq alone. That is obvious enough. As I said, we have not yet taken a final position. We await the committee's consideration and will then, in the course of the committee's deliberations, decide what we shall finally vote on this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126155524	Thank you, sir. Holger K. Nielsen. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126155530	At Conservatives we have decided and we are voting in favour of the resolution. We think it's a good mission. We are always proud when Denmark can contribute to the fight against Islamic State, which we regard as one of the most terrible movements in the world for many decades. Conservatives are also proud that Denmark together contributes as much as we do. On a stand-by basis, of course, we have a major training contribution at all the Asad base, which has trained almost 6,000 Iraqi soldiers, which is part of the reason why the Iraqi army and the Kurds are making progress in fighting the Islamic State. We have F-16 planes operating in the area, we have a Hercules plane, and we have special forces down there. So it is a very good contribution we make, and it is also a great contribution; it takes on many people. We need to put those resources into it by the West so that we can end the war down there, and it is about helping the Iraqis to gain control of their own country. It is a good purpose that all sensible people should support. It is not about exercising Western imperialism, but it is about helping the Iraqis to control their own country without there coming warriors from all kinds of other countries and having some rabid thoughts about creating a caliphate in which they commit genocide, mass rapes, destruction of cultural heritage and almost all other forms of atrocities that one can think of. The specific mission has several objectives. It is true, as has been said, that it is not a direct contribution to combat, but as we have been informed, and we must take this as a basis, it will help us to get a better picture of the coalition, get a better picture of the air traffic in the area by means of the radars and sensors on the frigate. And as the motion for a resolution states, it is the contribution that helps the coalition to fight the battle down there. After all, it is important that there is a good picture of air traffic in the area. I think we will appreciate that too when our own aircraft operate down there, we will be sure that we do not fly into any Russian aircraft or that there are other accidents going on down there, and our frigate can then help with that, as it has been enlightened. So I take that as a basis, i.e. it is an important contribution. That at the same time it is also good for the Navy to get some training in joining a carrier group, we think it is a great advantage. It is important that we train our cooperation with the rest of NATO, and we do so here, where we have practiced joining such a carrier group, which is, of course, a relevant formation that the Danish Navy should be able to participate in.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126155821	There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126155824	Thank you. I thought I had an appointment with Mr. Knox. Rasmus Jarlov said that he would explain what added value Denmark gave to this operation. I'm not guessing that sir. Rasmus Jarlov stands and suggests that the U.S. carrier fleet is unable to provide their own security and that they have been sent out at the risk of being attacked. I don't suppose that's it, sir. Rasmus Jarlov says. So how is it that this contribution gives an added value to the fight against the Islamic State? That is why it is not a real discussion to say that we could have spent that money on something else where there was real value in fighting Islamic State.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126155913	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126155914	I think I answered that question. What I was trying to explain to you, sir. Søren Søndergaard and others who belong are that what is stated in the motion for a resolution is that the Danish frigate helps to create a better picture of what is going on in the air over Syria and Iraq and in the water around. It is a contribution that needs to be made. It is important that we have a picture of what is going on in the air, as I said. We have an advantage of this ourselves, because we also have aircraft operating in the area. That is what is enlightened, and that is what I am referring to. I also assume that there are radars in advance, but when the motion for a resolution says that it will improve the overview, I assume that it is correct. And that is what is stated in the motion for a resolution, which is the added value that is, by the fact that the government is part of the coalition.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126160003	Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126160004	Excuse me, sir. Rasmus Jarlov really that the U.S. High Command will send a fleet to such an operation without having the sufficient radar capability to uncover what is happening around them......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Is that it, sir? Rasmus Jarlov says? And if the Americans have sufficient radar capacity, what is the added value we give? I think it is quite obvious and obvious that this is a priority that does not really add value to the fight against the Islamic State. It may give some picture in addition to what is necessary, but it does not give any added value.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126160047	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126160048	I'd like to acknowledge, sir. Søren Søndergaard's great pathos, but I think it's a little more difficult to understand. This is not about the carrier group being able to protect themselves and not having an adequate overview of what is going on around the carrier group. It's about what's going on in the skies over Syria and Iraq. That's what they're contributing, and that's why they're down there. As I see it, there is no great threat to the carrier group itself, which is why it is not so much a question of defending it. However, it is a question of that carrier group contributing to the fact that we have an overview of air traffic in the area, and surely it is also a base for air operations into Syria and Iraq.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126160132	Then it's mr. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126160135	In fact, I was just responding to the rapporteur's comment and I think I am reproducing it correctly when I say that all sensible people will agree that we should remove ISIL in the way it is now being done here, in relation to the way the coalition is working in general. And, as I said from the platform, we are in complete agreement in the alternative, and I believe that the other parties who may be opposed to this are also that ISIL must be combated. I just think it is a pity that you make it sound as if there are no good reasons to be aware of what it is, when you from a very, very narrow • yes, what to say the foundation goes in and fights ISIL in Syria and Iraq. Well, what is it doing? Do we create more terrorists elsewhere in the world when we go in and remove x number of terrorists? If we remove them from the face of the earth in the countries we enter, perhaps something else will happen in the world. I am not saying that the solution is to leave them alone, certainly not. But when you use the words all reasonable people can see that this is the only way to do it, I actually think we're going to make the conflict much simpler than it is. It is a substitute war, and there are many people in Denmark who have no idea how complicated this is, and then it is very easy to just say that you have to remove IS, but unfortunately it is not the whole solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126160244	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126160247	I do not think I said that all sensible people would agree with exactly the way things are going. I believe I said that all sensible people will agree that we must fight against the Islamic State. I also look at Mr. René Gade as an extremely sensible person, and I also assume that he agrees that we must fight against the Islamic State. Then it may be that we disagree on the strategy and tactics for how we do it. It is our view that when the Iraqi Government asks for our help to gain control of its own country, we do not create any more terrorists by helping them with it. We simply believe that it is necessary for there to be more stability and peace and a decent life for the people of Iraq that we should take this fight. Iraq is not able to defeat the Islamic State without our help, if they were, we could stay out of it, but they are not. If we do not fight Islamic State, they will take over most of the country, perhaps all, and then we will have even more problems in the future. So this is about ending a war, of course it's not about spreading. Unfortunately, sometimes military power is necessary, and this is one of the situations where it is necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126160355	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126160358	Well, maybe I over-interpreted it. I regret that, because it is precisely that there is room for political disagreement as to how we achieve the objective, and we can take it on another occasion. I would just like to add that if we still insist that we do not create any more terrorists by going in and supporting the wishes of the Iraqi Government, it is not black and white either. It may well be, just because we come from outside, that we are regarded in quite a different way from the perhaps great goodwill we have. So it's just a perspective on it. I am not saying that what the rapporteur says is wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126160432	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126160435	I believe that there is overwhelming reason to believe that the removal of Islamic State will contribute to the reduction of terrorism in the world. It is a source of inspiration for terrorism throughout the Western world and deep into Africa, and reducing their prestige, their control over large rural areas, will help to reduce terrorism. Of course, there is the possibility that there are some who see it as a Western crusade, because it is the lie that the Islamic State is trying to spread. However, when this happens at the request of the Iraqis themselves, we think that we are doing the right thing, even though there is a risk in all strategies.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126160514	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Jarlov. Then it's the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126160525	Thank you. We are in a time of security policy and, in this situation, preparation and competence building are alpha and omega. The primary purpose of the Danish contribution is co-training. It is about giving a Danish frigate the opportunity to sail and interact with an American carrier group from the beginning of February to May this year. This is an important purpose. The possibility of sailing with a core alliance and entering into complex operations with a carrier group is of great value to the Navy. Over the past many years, much of the fleet's time has gone by means of piracy. Now we need to strengthen the ability to engage in more complex multinational operations, which make quite different demands on the capacity of our frigates. It is therefore an investment, one might say, which can help to equip Denmark to meet the challenges of the future at sea. During the planning process it has been found that the frigate can also help to solve specific tasks while sailing with the carrier group. Firstly, defence of the carrier group and, secondly, airspace coordination and control, which means that the frigate will help monitor and coordinate air traffic around the carrier group. The two tasks will be solved while the carrier group is deployed in support of two operations. It is, firstly, the coalition's fight against ISIL in Syria and Iraq, where aircraft from the carrier group are expected to provide air support in the fight against ISIL. The fight against ISIL is an important political priority for the government and also for a large majority in the Folketing. When our frigate can combine co-training with the Americans with a contribution to the fight against ISIL, it also gives another good reason from the government's perspective to support the sailing with the carrier group. Secondly, the carrier group will also be deployed in support of the so-called Combined Maritime Forces or CMF. It is a US-led international naval cooperation which, among other things, includes: combats piracy, contributes to maritime security and can also contribute to capacity building in the region. Denmark has previously supported parts of the CMF in the framework of our action against piracy from the Horn of Africa. The participation of the frigate in the fight against ISIL and the efforts with the CMF means that it will be able to enter into complex operations with the carrier group. Obviously, this increases the value of co-training considerably. We cannot exclude from the outset that the carrier group will have the task of participating in operations other than these two. If this happens, the frigate will leave the carrier group organisationally and physically until the operational task in question is completed. Let me conclude by saying that the frigate's contribution to arming the Danish Navy in relation to an uncertain future is an important task. When our frigate can at the same time make important operational contributions, Denmark must of course be involved, and I therefore hope for broad support in the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126160844	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126160850	I assume that the Minister agrees with me that everything is a priority and that politics is about prioritising and that the money we spend on this operation cannot be spent on anything else. Then I must not suggest to the Foreign Minister that the Foreign Minister should take the initiative to take a trip to the liberated areas of Syria and look at how, for example, we are going to do so. Syria's Democratic Forces, the SDF, are fighting against the Islamic State, and under what conditions they struggle, with what equipment and what they have of personal security equipment? Wouldn't it be an idea for us to organize a trip like this? Will the Foreign Minister not take the initiative so that we can have a serious discussion in Parliament on priorities when we talk about the fight against Islamic State?
ParlaMint-DK_20170126160938	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126160941	I am not going to stand here and comment on such a visit. I have heard that a wish has been expressed, and I think that is fair enough. I just want to say that you can't make such a black-and-white calculation with either doing one or doing the other. We are making a major humanitarian contribution in general, and then we are doing something like this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126161005	Sir. Søren Søndergaard? No. Then it's mr. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126161011	I would just like to know whether the Minister could discuss the percentage distribution of the effort that has to be made in relation to the contribution to Iraq and Syria and then the maritime tasks. I don't know if that's something that can be answered from the platform, but otherwise I can ask about it later. This is not going to change anything for the alternative's position, but I think it is interesting because I think we need to be allowed to train our fleet to the extent that we need to. So we could perhaps be more positive about it in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126161035	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126161037	I cannot set percentages on what you do of one and the other. I can just say that Denmark is making a significant humanitarian effort in Syria, just to take that as an example. We have totaled almost 2 billion. kr. since the beginning of the conflict in 2011, both inside Syria and in neighbouring countries, Turkey, Iraq, Jordan and Lebanon. It places Denmark at the very top when it comes to humanitarian action per year. Capital, so it's an effort, I think we can be familiar.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126161110	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126161115	Thank you for your answer, but I really meant more in relation to the tasks that could be, for example, in relation to pirates, and the other part of the task. But I can ask that as a written question instead.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126161121	I think that makes sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126161124	Thank you to the Secretary of State. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170126161140	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 27 January 2017, at 12.00 p.m. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
