ParlaMint-DK_20170504100025	The meeting is open. The Minister for Business (Brian Mikkelsen) has informed me that he wishes to do so in accordance with Article 19 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. 4, to give the Danish Parliament a written statement on Denmark's digital growth 2017. R 15). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in www.folkingstidende.dk.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504100104	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 93 by Pernille Bendixen (DF), Anni Matthiesen (V), Laura Lindahl (LA) and Orla Østerby (KF). The vote is over. In favour of 56 (DF, V, LA and KF), against 53 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 93 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 92 by Jacob Mark (SF), Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen-Jørgensen (S), Jakob Sølvhøj (EL), Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT) and Lotte Rod (RV) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504100228	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504100243	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 113 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504100315	The debate is primarily about the proposed amendment. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendment is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504100336	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 by Johanne Schmidt-Schmidt-Nielsen (EL), Josephine Fock (ALT), Sofie Carsten Nielsen (RV) and Holger K. Nielsen (SF). The vote is over. In favour of 24 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 88 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504100409	The negotiations then concern the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the bill? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504100417	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 88 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), against 24 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504100447	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504100508	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 23 (DF), against 87 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504100543	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen has asked to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504100601	We are in favour of making use of this measure, i.e. the emergency brake, as it is called, in special cases. We have tabled some amendments, and if they are accepted, we shall also vote in favour. I do not have much expectation of that, so I would like to point out one thing in this which I think is fundamental and that is why I am addressing it. What you're doing with this bill is giving the government a mandate that it can use at a later stage. It is, in fact, a very far-reaching power to be able to put an end to asylum seekers who can cross the border; a power which, if necessary, will have major consequences vis-à-vis other countries. It is also available in other countries, for example. in Norway and, after all, criteria have been laid down for the use of this authorisation. There isn't here. Here it is completely unlimited. And I would like to say to the Folketing that this is a very, very far-reaching transfer of power from the Folketing to the government. That is very, very far-reaching. I think we have to say this at second reading, and I also think that the Folketing needs to think about whether it fits in with the normal division of power between the Folketing and the government. That is why we have proposed that there should be at least some criteria that we are setting up now if the government is to be able to use this power to set the emergency braking system in motion, and also that we should inform the foreign policy name or consult the name if that is the case. In fact, we believe that this is a decision of foreign policy scope. It seems that the government will not be involved in this, at least not according to the statements made in the report. But I have to say that this is a basically violent thing that is being done here, and I think the Folketing will have to think about that when you vote in a moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504100844	Thank you. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504100850	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (SF), joined by a minority (S, EL, ALT and RV). The vote is over. In favour of voting 53 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), against voting 57 (DF, V, LA and KF), [no votes for or against 0]. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2 of a minority (SF), joined by a minority (S, EL, ALT and RV). The vote is over. In favour of 54 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 56 (DF, V, LA and KF), [no votes for or against 0]. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 3 of a minority (SF), joined by a minority (EL, ALT and RV). The vote is over. In favour of voting 24 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against voting 85 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), [no votes for or against 0]. The proposal has been rejected. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504101048	Does anyone wish to speak? There must be silence in the Chamber, even if there is no vote, and you must be able to hear what is being said from up here. So, I ask once again for calm in the Chamber, and I ask that it be respected. Order, please. Does anyone wish to speak? If you want to speak, it's up here from the platform. As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504101233	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-7, elected by a majority? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504101251	The debate is open. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504101325	Thank you for that, President. The legislative proposal here is another step towards road equality on our islands, that is, the fundamental principle that it should not cost more to use the blue road than to use the asphalt road when visiting our islands. The measure has been under way for many years now, and in relation to this one can always become a little impatient, but I would like to thank the many parties who have been involved in this work and the result that we have finally arrived at here is a result which, if you count both the financial laws and the other agreements that have been made, together gives some 140 million. kr., to really get started on this. It is an amount very similar to the amount proposed by the former SR government in its proposal for a growth package. At that time, we were told that it was very unambitious. Now it has been two years and the current government has finally come up to the same amount. I will spend no more time on that than to say that we are here now. I think it is important to say that the fact that we are here for me is not the end goal. No, it is a stage in which we are now, for the money we have been able to find, but that does not end the work for us in the Social Democratic Party. After all, we can see that with the first money pools that have come out, we have already been able to gain very, very good experiences around the islands. And it simply makes a difference when it becomes affordable for an ordinary Danish family to go on holiday and visit our beautiful islands. Denmark is an island kingdom and it has been the case for far too long that it has simply been too expensive to visit the islands. This has meant that the settlement has become more difficult, it has meant that tourism has stumbled, and this has meant that for a typical Danish family it has often been cheaper to go on a charter trip for an extended weekend in a European city than it has been to see what kind of country we live in and get to know our islands. With this proposal, things are moving in the other direction, in the better direction, in other words, that it is better for our islands to make tourist movements and that it is better for our families to visit our islands. That is why we in the Socialist Group are voting in favour. We are also voting in favour of, and are pleased with, the part relating to the VAT bill and that a solution will be found to it, and I also think it is sensible that the proposal here extends the period of the year in which this principle can be introduced. It is also important to say that with this bill it is not like this at least for me not to see that we have then introduced traffic equality in Denmark. We don't. It is a linked traffic equality, and it is only for a few months of the year. So it is still the case that there is still a long way to go for full transport equality. But I do not want to sprinkle wormwood in the cup today, but I would like to welcome the fact that our islands have better opportunities to attract tourists and that both Danish and foreign tourists have better opportunities and that it is possible to visit the unique gems that our islands make up.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504101747	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504101800	It is a lovely day today, the sun shines, it is spring, and soon we will be extending the period of traffic equality, so it will now be the whole year, except in the high season, that you can come over cheaply and visit the beautiful Danish islands. So it's a really good day today. It is also today that I am looking back at what has actually happened since 2011, i.e. how this traffic equality thing really came into play. Back in 2011, I remember we had just got a new government that was totally crazy about there being a pay ring around Copenhagen, but thank God it wasn't, but after it was abandoned, we on the Rural Committee were around visiting the different Danish islands, and they said everywhere: What you said with a pay ring around Copenhagen was fun, because we already have it. After all, we are experiencing payment ring around each and every one of our islands. Shouldn't you take a look at the pay ring we actually have on the islands? At least I thought that was a very good idea to look at, and I am very grateful to the Danish small islands, the Association of Danish Small Islands, to this day. What hit my head on the nail, for which I am also very grateful, was Ærø, it was Læsø, and it was Samsø who made a report called the Paying ring, where they liked to draw attention to the huge problem that it was so expensive to get to the Danish islands. I took that further and raised it in a question here in the Parliamentary Chamber in 2014, and it has otherwise been speeded up ever since in cooperation with a great many good colleagues who are also in the Chamber today. After all, it was nice to gain experience from the islands when it came into force last year, and they told how they saw that there had been more accommodation, that there was more growth and that there were cafes that had 50 per cent. more growth compared to the same period last year. So it was nice to see that it works, people come, more come to the islands, and they put a lot of money on the islands, and we are really happy about that. Then it is also today that we must look to the future, because this proposal does, as Mr. Magnus Heunicke said that there are no extra bills on VAT which make the tickets more expensive, and in Dansk Folkeparti we do not think we are finished yet. In the Danish People's Party we want to fight for full transport equality; it should not cost more to sail to an island than it costs to drive the same route on roads. This is also true in the high season. Nor does it cost anything to go on a road, and that is why we do not think it is fair that you should pay to be a passenger on the ferries. So there's room for improvement in this scheme, but it's a really nice step we've taken in the right direction. Finally, there is just to be a huge call to the islands, and that is that here in the Folketing we give you the framework that it will now be cheaper to come out and visit the beautiful Danish islands, but this can only be a success if you, who live on the islands, also seize the opportunity and thus ensure that your islands become attractive. They already are, because we who have visited them know how attractive it is to be on the islands, but what I mean is that the islands have of course also organized themselves according to when tourists are coming and, when they have mostly arrived in the high season, it has of course also been done that this is where they have been most open. But with this opportunity, where you can expect tourists all year round, it is also important that you are ready to accept them all year round. So if people come over to an island in November and the inn is closed and the merchant is closed and there is no place they can go to eat, they won't come back, and therefore it is really important that the islands also fill out the framework that we are giving them here today. Yesterday we had the pleasure of having a hearing in the Landstingshall, where I also had a talk with a lot from the islands, and there was a nice event afterwards at night too, and they are also very aware that with this joyful news there is also a responsibility for being ready for tourists all year round, and then hopefully it also makes it clear that there are many more people who want to settle on the islands so that we can have that curve broken. We certainly welcome the results that have been achieved so far, and we look forward very much to seeing what this can create for the future. So thank you for the good cooperation to all my colleagues all around the Parliamentary Chamber to make this work.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504102304	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Thomas Danielsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504102310	Thank you for that, President. In the context of the examination of draft law L 197 amending the law on municipal equalisation and general grants to municipalities, the Liberal Party will vote in favour of the proposal, which extends the principle of road transport, according to the speeches of the previous rapporteurs. In the Left, we are very concerned to support growth and development throughout the country, which is why ferry service to and from the small islands is a key issue. That is why we are now making a further reduction in tariffs, which I hope the whole of the Danish Parliament will support. It is a tariff reduction that has been achieved by the government with the support of Dansk Folkeparti in connection with the 2017 Finance Act. I hope it will be like the first time that the government made a reduction in tariffs, where it was all parties in the Folketing who voted in favour, so that this will happen again on this issue. We also address the VAT problem, which has been shown to reduce the real value of the subsidy for the reduction of ferry tariffs. In the Left, we believe that it is appropriate to increase the subsidy for the reduction of ferry charges for non-governmental ferry services, so that the subsidy will have the optimal effect. The draft law thus reduces traffic inequality by extending the principle of road transport. The purpose of the draft law is also to change the period of application of the grant so that the municipalities will be able to benefit from the grant throughout the year, with the exception of the high season, rather than being able to use it only for a shorter part of the year. In this way, we are more supportive of the positive development of the small islands, which is why the Left naturally supports L 197, in other words this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504102507	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henning Hyllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504102517	As others have said, I would also like to say on behalf of the Enhedslisten that this is a very good proposal which brings us a step closer to full transport equality, although it is not. There is also broad agreement that this is a good thing and that it is a proposal on the road to so-called transport equality. I also think it is a good thing in the legislative proposal, since it is not yet full traffic equality, that it is very sensible to exclude the high season, which is a season in which there are actually capacity problems in some places to get people over at all. That is not where there is pressure to get more tourists over when we have to limit the period. So that's also a very good part of the bill. It is also good that the problems of VAT are addressed here and resolved. I think it is a good thing that the government has been able to find compensation so that the full amount of the subsidy is actually used for what it is allocated to, namely to reduce ferry charges. As the previous rapporteurs have also pointed out, the system has been a huge success with a considerable number of visitors around the islands. We believe that this is largely due to the fact that it was created as a very flexible system, which was organized according to local wishes and needs. But it is also very good proof that lower rates mean more travellers. Then, of course, one wonders why this view cannot really penetrate when, for example, we do. Talking about train traffic. But that is not what we are discussing today. I hope, of course, that people around the islands where it is relevant will create or expand public transport, so that there is a transport offer for those who do not come by car or those who do not want to be carried by car when they are on an island. Collective traffic, I should like to stress, is not necessarily a large bus running around. It will simply not be relevant on many islands. It can be anything: flex traffic, cross-cars, island cars, it can be all sorts of schemes. I would urge you to look at this very much so that you do not drown in cars in places where you can take cars over. I also think it is worth noting the request we have received from the Association of Danish Småøer og Småøer Færgeselskaber and the Ferry Secretariat, where they ask us to look at making a new calculation so that everyone gets a share of 43%. in the grant. I mean, we should look at it. I think we need to clarify this in committee. Those concerned have had their presence, and I think we owe it to them to try to clarify this during the committee procedure. But the Minister has also addressed the request and the proposal that has been made in his reply to Question No. 70. I think the Minister is asking some pertinent questions: why should the Fanoe route not be part of the new funds? I can see from the material that this is because they already get a large part of the money. Holbæk is also exempt from having to participate in the new funds. But the Minister also says, that is how I see it, at least, that he will bring forward the evaluation that will be in four years' time, that is to say by 2020, before 2020. I think that's really good. I believe that the proposal from the Association of Danish Small Islands and the Færgeselskaber and the Ferry Secretariat does not solve the inequality that has arisen in the ferry service of Orø in Holbæk Municipality, where the municipal route suffers badly from the very uneven distribution compared to the private route between Hammer Bakke and Orø. In fact, I believe that this is an urgent problem which we should perhaps address during the committee procedure as well. It can be said that all of these distributional problems would be passé if we introduced traffic equality in full, because then it would be the price of driving in a car if the blue road had been black that was in force and the subsidy would have to be set accordingly. I thought it was interesting yesterday at our little hearing to hear the ideas, for example. a joint municipal ferry company, which was repeated. I think it was the mayor of Svendborg who mentioned it. After all, these are things that the Enhedslisten has suggested in the past. This would clearly result in economies of scale, not least administratively, when talking about the ferry service of the islands. But that's not what this bill is about. There have been a great many good forces that have helped and pressed here islands and small islands. We have also pressed politically. There is a need for continued pressure if we are to go all the way through. However, I note that there is a great deal of will in this Parliament to achieve full transport equality as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504103036	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504103044	The aim of the draft law here is to give effect to the initiative to implement the road principle of non-governmental ferry services by allowing the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Interior to gradually increase the subsidy to the municipalities concerned for the reduction of ferry tariffs. As you know, the introduction of the principle of road transport is intended to support the growth of the island communities of the country, among other things. through increased tourism, as we have heard. The Liberal Alliance can, of course, support this gradual enlargement that we are discussing today. As the debate has shown, the bill will also resolve this VAT problem which arose as a result of the state subsidy. The subsidy falls within the scope of the VAT Act, which means that taxes eat the value of the subsidy, and that has not been the intention. It is therefore gratifying that the municipalities can now be compensated so that the subsidy can be fully effective. With these words, the Liberal Alliance supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504103151	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504103158	Thank you. I am standing here on behalf of my colleague Mr. Roger Matthisen, who couldn't be here today. But I have promised him to say very, very clearly and very clearly that we are so supportive of the bill. And it is gratifying that it seems that the whole House is behind it. In the alternative, we have a country and urban policy in which this particular point, namely that it must be flexible to get around Denmark, and that it must be equal for everyone, regardless of the mode of transport to be chosen, is very, very important, and we have even financed it in our proposal for a financial law which, of course, is not on which we are building this, that is to say, as a collective parliament. But it's just to say that we have brought the crowns, even when we like Enhedslisten say that we would actually have it fully implemented. But respect for the fact that it is a very strong step on the road. We're backing up.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504103248	Thank you. Sir. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504103256	From the Radical Left there is a great congratulations to the island communities and small islands of the country. I must admit that in the first place, when we were in government, the Radical Left was rather careful to promise to throw ourselves into the fight for this road principle. We thought it was very expensive, but the islands held on, the islands held on, and a work was started that showed what it would cost. And it turned out that this could actually be done within a reasonably reasonable financial framework. Then we got into the fight for it, because it is important for some of the small island communities that the large community, the community, spend some money to make the ferries work and also make the ferries have a price, so that is fairly reasonable. A small island community cannot stand for that itself. We started by putting down some money in the government to lower freight rates. In fact, it turned out that that money could also start to look at passenger traffic tariffs. And the new government has got even more money, so we can now adopt this law today, which implements the principle of road transport outside the summer holidays of schools. I would also like to congratulate the government and the ministries for resolving this VAT problem which came to light, I think, all the parties that have been involved in this work. All of a sudden, there was not much reduction in the tariffs for the money that had been set aside. The official apparatus had not quite informed us of this when we placed the money. But all of a sudden VAT had to be taken into account, and that has been resolved. This seems to me to be a good thing, so that we can all give the lower rates to the islands, which we had actually promised them when we thought otherwise about VAT. So we're really excited about this bill. A great deal of praise to the government for its official work on VAT. And we're voting for the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504103505	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504103513	We talk a lot about the fact that we want a Denmark that is more connected. After all, there are soon no limits to how much is being said about the development of our islands and rural areas. And today we are actually following up the talk with action. With this bill we make it much cheaper to visit Denmark's amazingly beautiful islands. Lower rates on ferry tickets will give ordinary families and tourists much better opportunities to visit the islands. It thus supports the development of e.g. the tourist industry on the islands and helps to maintain that the islands are inhabited all year round. SF supports that we move on with the same course, so that we can later get fully into port with a proper equality of the islands.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504103610	Thank you. Sir. Anders Johansson, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504103618	Thank you. If we are to have really created growth and development on our islands and preserve life there, we must at least put the pay rings in the grave that lie around the islands, and we will then take another step to do that today with the legislative proposal we are debating. For me, as an islander, it is a great day, just as it is for the many thousands of other islanders of the kingdom. Traffic equality was a struggle that began back in the 1980s, and at that time it was not taken very seriously. Later, the principle of road transport was mentioned in several reports on how to create a better basis for life on the islands, but unfortunately there was no relaxation of the payment wall at that time, on the contrary. The population of the islands fell across the board and thus fewer and fewer passengers paid for ferry transport. And the consequences were very escalating prices, and in the end everyone could see that something had to be done and fortunately. Today, we are taking the third step towards the equal treatment of our islands in traffic. We took the first step when we received cheaper freight transport so that companies on the islands could compete on equal terms with competitors on the mainland. Later we had cheaper shoulder seasons, and here in the third stage we get the whole year except for the high season. So we have come a long way in recent years, and I would like to thank all the parties of the Folketing for this, because the initiatives mentioned have actually been adopted unanimously among the parties of the Folketing, and that is important. It is important that the desire for transport equality is broadly based in the Folketing, because it is such an important framework condition for our islands that it would be completely unsustainable and devastating if it could be changed by changing majority voting. So I would like to thank all the other parties and rapporteurs for the good cooperation in this matter, both on behalf of the Conservative People's Party, but perhaps especially as an islander. The Danish islands are an important part of Denmark, our culture and our history, and the beautiful Danish islands have a special place in the heart of many Danes. They also have this with the Conservative People's Party, and that is why we support those initiatives which, in a sensible way, create better conditions for residents and business on the islands. I think I am speaking on behalf of all the islanders when I say that the payment ring between the mainland and our islands was the biggest threat to island communities in Denmark, which is why I am also incredibly pleased and proud that today we are taking another major step towards road equality. Because the road principle works. We have already seen that in our own eyes. Passenger numbers have exploded as prices have been reduced. The same was confirmed a few months ago when we held a hearing on the effects of the road principle, and the conclusion was clear: Lower ferry prices give more guests, more life and more jobs in our Danish islands. And of course it does. Another challenge addressed by the draft law is the problem of VAT, which must be borne by ferry operators. The VAT problem actually undermined the subsidy in some cases, and I am, of course, pleased that the bill is now being corrected. It was a quite grotesque and obvious mistake which is now being corrected. The Conservative People's Party supports the bill, and we are also looking forward to further work on the full application of the road principle, as we have done, for example. know it from some of our neighbouring countries. For if we are to lay the foundations for development and growth on our beautiful islands, we must start by removing the payment rings that separate them from the mainland.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504103955	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504104004	I would like to start by thanking all the rapporteurs for their speeches. It is always nice when there is agreement on a bill all around the Chamber, and there has been. In fact, I think I will start by quoting the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, who said that it is a wonderful day. It's not just because it's good weather outside. It is not only because it is now 72 years since the message of freedom sounded out through the radio in Denmark. It is also because here we have implemented the decision on full traffic equality outside the high season in relation to the Danish islands. It is based on a broad work that has been in the Folketing and a broad wish that has been in the Folketing. And there is no doubt that this is something that will have a great impact on the islands. After all, we can already look at the preliminary experience that has been gained this autumn in relation to the fact that more transport equality could be achieved. How has it been used? We have received reports on how things have been going in different places and we have seen good results. Ferry drift is the lifeblood of the islands, which is why it is of course crucial that we have done something about this. I also welcome the fact that we have solved the VAT problem, which many people have been aware of, and rightly so, because of course it was a particular problem, namely that we now thought that we had solved the problem of transport equality, and then suddenly we might not have quite the money that it looked like. But fortunately, this proposal has also been resolved. So it is just a happy Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior who looks beyond a number of happy rapporteurs. And I think we should be pleased when the cooperative popular government can end up creating such a fine result.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504104216	There is one comment from Mr. Henning Hyllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504104220	It is simply a question of what the Minister mentions in his reply to Question No. 70, i.e. the response to the request from the small islands and the small islands ferry company and the Ferry Secretariat, and to the proposal which they make for a perhaps different distribution. After all, this has been noted, and we had it repeated yesterday at the small hearing that we had some imbalances in that system. And the Minister operates in his reply with the opportunity to bring forward the evaluation of this bill so that it does not reach 2020. I just wanted to hear what the Minister has done about this. When could it be imagined that such an evaluation will come if it is to be brought forward from 2020?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504104312	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504104313	Well, I'm happy, sir. Henning Hyllested and say that I today's date has decided to advance the previously planned evaluation in 2020 in autumn 2017. So it's already coming this year.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504104330	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked for the floor. The debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Rural and Islands Committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504104346	The debate is open, and that is Mr. Male Larsen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504104409	Thank you. As our rapporteur unfortunately cannot be present in the Chamber today, I have been given the task of reading the rapporteur's speech. This bill follows up on the political agreement on party support rules reached between the government and the Social Democratic Party back in February. With the political agreement, we have followed up some of the recommendations made by the Party Support Committee and the Council of Europe's GRECO agency GRACO in recent years. The agreement therefore ensures more openness and transparency in the support to Danish parties from private individuals, companies and organisations. We are satisfied with this by the Social Democrats, and that was also the reason why we set up the Party Support Committee in the former SR government at the time. With the agreement and this legislative proposal, we ensure that private contributions are made transparent to all levels of the parties and to individual candidates. Today, only the parties' national organisations are required to publish private contributions of more than DKK 20,000. It will also apply in the future at local and regional level, and candidates for all elections will be subject to reporting and publication obligations. In addition, parties at all levels are prohibited from receiving anonymous grants of more than DKr 20,000. If a party receives an anonymous grant over DKK 20,000, the grant must be returned to the grant provider or alternatively transferred to an account with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior. A guide is being prepared from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Interior on what is perceived as subsidies, so that we also have clarity in this area. Finally, the draft law will introduce an obligation to audit the accounts of the parties' national organisations, so that the accounts of political parties which have been drawn up for the last parliamentary elections or European Parliament elections will in future be audited by an auditor approved by the statutory auditor. With the agreement, therefore, we are taking a step in the right direction. Some may say that we could have gone further, but it is always a balance between creating greater openness without imposing unnecessary bureaucracy on our party organisations. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504104626	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504104632	I find it very regrettable that the Socialist rapporteur will not be here today and will be at the forefront of the rapporteur's speech. That is why I have to put the question to the rapporteur who is here. For the Danish party support rules have just met massive criticism for years for the great secrecy there is. And, of course, something that is preserved by the agreement that has been reached is the so-called money clubs or professional clubs, where anonymity can be maintained as a sponsor, even if large sums of money are passed on to parties and politicians. How can the Socialists be involved in an agreement designed to ensure more openness without ending this huge cat-gun, this opportunity to bypass what is meant by the rules, by preserving this opportunity for money clubs?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504104727	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504104728	It's kind of funny. For the last time I stood here and met the same rapporteur from the Enhedslisten, the term massive criticism was also used many times. I shall confine myself to pointing out that we are taking a step in the right direction here and, as I guessed, someone will say that we should have gone further. This is the agreement for which we are on the mark at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504104752	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504104754	I think the rapporteur should answer the question. Because I assume that the rapporteur agrees with me that we have been criticised by the European Union and by the Council of Europe's anti-corruption unit, GRECO. So why is it that the Social Democrats, as one of the only parties the government has invited to negotiate this agreement, have not taken care to end a mechanism that can preserve the secrecy of the cash flows in politics?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504104819	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504104820	In addition to the whole world, there are a lot of models that do different things compared to this. And, personally, perhaps I would also like there to be no possibility of giving private support to political work. The agreement that lies here is a step in the right direction, and that is what we are aiming for.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504104843	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504104847	Thanks for the speech. It's kind of the same thing I'm interested in, like Enhedslisten, maybe a little more concrete. The rapporteur's paragraph, in which the rapporteur described why we do not go any further, was very brief. I think it was about bureaucracy, perhaps it would be more bureaucratic. Can the rapporteur not put a little more words on it, in other words explain why it is not being used to go further down this road right now?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504104913	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504104914	But one of the examples that I would like to mention in this context is that in the vast majority of the party organisations in this country, we have a large number of smaller party associations which, for example, if they do. A duty to audit was imposed, had to enter a costly and administratively cumbersome system and where it could be said that a fairly large part of the local party fund's listbox's money would go to a registered accountant instead of being used for the party political work they were actually intended for.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504104950	Here you go for a brief comment again.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504104952	Thank you. So I have to understand the rapporteur's view that it is because it is too expensive for us and our parties and our local associations and too bureaucratic for us that we choose not to give people greater transparency?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504105008	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504105009	A part of this is, as I say, minor things, things out in the whole country, probably both in your party and in my party, relatively small boxes, which are managed by volunteers, such as: sitting on a cashier's post, which is not yet easy to dispose of, because there is a job in it and there is concern about whether you now comply with all the rules and get up and come down here. If, at the same time, you have to spend the money of the party association, the departmental coffers, to buy audit work as well, we're out in something that I don't think we're interested in.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504105049	Thank you. We need to stop using direct charges. Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Susanne Eilersen, Dansk Folkeparti, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504105102	Thank you, President. The bill we are discussing here is aimed at creating transparency about private party support. It is high time to create more openness and transparency about donations to political parties. It must be the same for everyone, regardless of whether they are crowns, direct contributions or contributions to professional clubs and the like. And it is important that voters can see who contributes what to the political parties, and preferably when the amount is higher than 10,000 kr. There should therefore be no anonymous grant of more than 10,000 DKK if it is for the Danish People's Party. I'm afraid this proposal doesn't contain that. However, the agreement contains good measures and is a step in the right direction. But it's too small a step. However, it does not solve the issues that the committee that was put on earlier has addressed with recommendations to the government, which is known by everyone and which could, as such, just be voted through. Nevertheless, the government chooses to make an agreement only with the Social Democratic Party and disregards the involvement of all the other parties. It also ignores some of the recommendations made by the committee. That is why the Danish People's Party has joined forces with Enhedslisten, Radical Left, Alternative and SF to include a report in the bill which contains the recommendations contained in Report No. 150 on transparency and financial support are aimed at. In the report we have written, we have among other things. emphasized that the limit for anonymous contributions should not exceed DKK 10,000. For donations from private contributors who support more than DKK 10,000, the exact amount from the donor must be reported. The deadline for the submission of accounts must be brought forward from 12 to 4 months after the clearance of accounts. The establishment of rules for non-financial aid or what we call direct aid, and professional clubs must be included as party support and much more. In addition, the parties have undertaken to implement the changes if the parties which have signed it can find a majority in favour of it in the Folketing. It is a pity that we now had the opportunity, once and for all, to reach an agreement that creates openness and transparency about donations, that we then choose half a solution. However, as I said before, this proposal is a step in the right direction. In the Danish People's Party we think it is too small a step, and then we have to take it in two stages. Of course, we support the draft law as it is moving in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504105409	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Søren Gade, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504105422	Thank you. After all, the bill we are discussing here today translates the political agreement reached between the government and the Social Democratic Party in the area of party support on 1 February 2017. The draft law provides for a new balance in relation to increased transparency of the private financial support received by political parties from private individuals, from companies and from organisations. It is an agreement that follows up some of the recommendations made by the GRECO GRECO committee and some of the recommendations made by the Party Support Committee. And we believe that the agreement now ensures a better balance in the rules, so that in future more contributions will be made public at whatever level they are made, while at the same time doing so without too much trouble and bureaucracy for the parties, the business community and the public sector. We believe that the ban on parties and regional and municipal candidate lists receiving anonymous grants exceeding the limit of DKK 20.000 is an important step towards creating more openness on private financial support for parties, and we also believe that there is reason for subsidies above the limit of, among others, the amount of aid to the parties. regional or municipal lists of candidates in the future shall be reported to and published by the Regional Council and the Municipal Council respectively. Those rules apply today to the parties' national organisations, and we believe that there is reason to ensure that greater private contributions are made at all levels of the parties. We also think it is logical that in future the limit should be set at a price level to follow the general trend in wages. On the basis of this, the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504105557	Thank you. There are a number of questions. First, it's Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504105602	Thank you. I would like to ask the rapporteur about the progress of this agreement, because I am deeply surprised that not all parties in the Folketing have been called for negotiations to follow up the recommendations of the Party Support Committee. Why has this happened in such a small, closed assembly that has only involved the governing parties and the social democracy, when this is something that should concern us all?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504105630	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504105632	To that I would say to the Enhedslisten rapporteur that this question must be addressed to the government. It's the right place to put it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504105637	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504105639	So the rapporteur cannot answer why the Left has not also worked for a united Parliament, not a small closed club, to negotiate the new rules on party support. The rapporteur of the Left cannot answer another party in the Folketing to that?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504105657	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504105658	No.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504105700	Then it's mr. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504105703	I am a little curious as to why the solution that has been chosen has been chosen. In other words, as the draft law also says very well, there is a rather in-depth work by the Party Support Committee on the basis of this bill, and they make a number of recommendations. Some of them have chosen to follow, some of which have been chosen not to follow. Can the rapporteur explain why it has not been chosen to follow, for example? the proposal that the amount should be indicated when you receive grants of more than DKr 20,000.? That is one of the things I, for example. It seems that it could help to create more openness.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504105738	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504105739	Thank you. I recognise that there is a political disagreement between the SF rapporteur and the parties supporting this proposal. I just want to say in relation to the limit and the fact that you can give 20,000 kroner. In an anonymous form, or at least without publishing your name, it is, among other things. is due to the debate that is running in public space. If a citizen in Denmark wants to give an amount to e.g. Socialist People's Party, there is the risk that if you do so by name and the amount is DKK 20,000, you will be ashamed on the social media... you can destroy your business because you go in and want to support a political party. And vice versa, of course, it is fair if it is large amounts that are given that you then publish the name. And there we think the balance is that the amount of over 20,000 kr. is published by name if you give it to the Socialist People's Party or to the Left, but that amount is DKK 20,000. or below, you can give in anonymous form. I fully acknowledge that we have a political disagreement there, but that is the balance we have had, and that is why we support the proposal that lies here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504105837	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504105838	Well, the part about the anonymous grants I'm in on, and I also think it's a good thing that it's now forbidden to grant anonymous grants of more than DKK 20,000. And, pragmatically, I also understand that it must be possible to grant anonymous subsidies if they are small subsidies. What I am asking is why the recommendation of the Party Support Committee has not been followed on the question of writing how much has been received. If you receive half a million as a party, why not make it public? This is one of the things that I believe could help to create more transparency for the electorate in relation to what the parties receive.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504105909	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504105910	It has been part of the political discussions that have been held, because that has been the case, that is to say, in relation to the sum of more than DKr 20,000. the amount had to be mentioned. The political agreement was to mention the name and not the amount, and I must then rely on it to be part of the political agreement, even though I understand the questioner's remarks and questions about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504105929	Sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504105931	I'd like to stay on the same track. Well, we have, for example. We just had a debate on the inheritance tax, and there we could see that a large number of the large family-owned companies, which get the most cool cash out of this agreement, at the same time support the Left party and a number of the other parties behind the agreement. However, we do not see what amounts they are supporting. Does the rapporteur not think it would be reasonable for the Danes to be able to see how much money the Left and other parties have received from companies which, afterwards, the Left directly and purposefully benefited from a special tax credit for precisely this type of company?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504110015	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504110016	After all, I am not suffering from the conspiracy theories that I can hear the Enhedslisten's rapporteur suffer from. In fact, in my party, we think that a commitment to political action by individuals and companies is a good thing. We also think that there should be some kind of openness about it. That is what we have today, and the rules for openness will be increased with the proposal, for which there is a majority in the Folketing. I fully acknowledge that the Enhedslisten rapporteur will go further. This is the political agreement, and then, when the time comes, we will have to regroup a majority to change it. I just wanted to say to Mr. Knox. Pelle Dragsted, that you can see which companies and individuals pay more than DKK 20,000, whether it be for Enhedslisten or for the Left or the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504110058	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504110059	Yes, but you can't see the amount they give, and there I think many Danes would think it would be nice to be able to see how much it really is. Because there's a little difference between $20,000. 20 million kr. I simply cannot understand the desire to be able to hide and hide this information from the Danes. Why can't the Danes know? We're sitting here to represent them. We are not some secret group; we are political parties elected by the Danes. Why must they not see how much money we get from different private interests?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504110130	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504110131	The Danes can see in the future which organizations and which individuals make political contributions over DKK 20,000. And I think sir... Pelle Dragsted will find that most of the contributions will be right there, where you do not get your name out as is happening at the moment too, because you do not want to be part of the public debate, where you go out and hang people and organisations out if they go in and support a political party. And it does not matter which party is then supported: it has a consequence in the public debate, because today it has become somewhat unorthodox at all to interfere in political life.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504110204	Sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504110206	I also miss a little logic. Well, when the government proposes this, it's because you think it's right. But you must have felt it and discussed it and thought: this is how we have to do it. I simply do not want an answer as to why people should not know how much that amount is. There's a big difference between 20,000 kroner. or several million. What is such a basic argument for people not to know?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504110234	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504110236	I'll try one more time. It is a political agreement, and the political agreement states that we are publishing the names of people and organisations that give more than DKK 20,000. I acknowledge that there is a minority in the Danish Parliament who would like all the donors of money over 20,000 kroner. shall be made public. That is not the majority for now. There is a majority in favour of giving up the names of organisations and individuals who grant subsidies to political parties of more than DKK 20,000. That's the answer to that question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504110305	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504110305-2	I know all that. I would like to ask for the explanatory statement and the intercepts. I'd love to hear those. Is the rapporteur, for example? would agree with the Socialist rapporteur that it is because it creates too much trouble for the party associations and their kind?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504110324	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504110325	I say it again: it is a political agreement and that is what we have agreed in the parties that support this bill. Therefore, the limit is DKK 20,000, and the names of companies and individuals who pay more than DKK 20,000 are published.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504110337	Mrs Susanne Eilersen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504110339	Thank you. I do not think that will help, I ask the question that all my fellow Members have asked once again. But then I will try to put another question to the rapporteur, and that is about business clubs. Does the rapporteur not believe that this party support over DKr 20,000? is suddenly being channeled into business clubs, and that way you will still be able to bypass the rule on the basis of this new bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504110408	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504110409	My guess is as good as the questioner's guess. I believe that many political parties have business clubs and there are rules on how to manage money in those business clubs. I am convinced that the parties comply with the rules that we ourselves have adopted. It is important for me to say that the rules we adopt, because support for political parties must of course be enforced, and among other things. there will now be an obligation for an auditor to be included in the statutory auditor's act to audit the accounts of the parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504110446	Mrs. Susanne Eilersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504110447	We didn't get much further on that. So I would like to turn the second question again and ask: does the rapporteur think that, if people and companies are to publish the specific amount they pay when it is more than DKK 20.000, they will not contribute to political parties?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504110511	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504110512	It's gonna be a guess on my part. What I was trying to say before was just quiet, that I think that there are people out there who want to interfere in the political debate and want to make a contribution to a political party... whatever party it may be... sometimes holding breath and choosing not to do so, because you simply risk the reputation and reputation of your company or risk being proclaimed as someone who supports it in the wrong party, and then there are potential customers who stay away. So I certainly believe that it is of great importance whether you can give money to a political party without having to make your name public.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504110554	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504110602	In January, the government and the Social Democratic Party reached an agreement to amend party support rules. The agreement contains a few good measures, but it does not address at all the problems that have been criticised internationally as well as by the Party Support Committee set up by the former government, the SR government. It is so unfortunate that we have missed the opportunity to do things properly when we finally come to an agreement and a legislative proposal to deal with the enormous secrecy of party support. Over and over Denmark has been criticized for its closeness to the cash flows in Danish politics. We have been criticised by the European Union, the Council of Europe and the Council of Europe's anti-corruption unit GRECO for our extreme secrecy about the economic interests hidden behind politicians. We are at a very low level when it comes to the ability of the people to see through what economic interests lie behind politicians. We did that before this deal, and we do that after this deal. I would also like to say something about the process leading up to the agreement, because I find it very strange that not all parties in the Folketing have been invited to negotiate on how to follow up the recommendations of the Party Support Committee. Why has it been so closed down a debate that has only included government parties and social democracy? It certainly looks like a horse trade, which means that the parties with the greatest interest in maintaining the secrecy of party support have joined forces and tightened up some rules that benefit themselves. In this house, we should have nothing to hide from the people who voted for us. If we have anything to hide from our constituents, the alarm bells have to ring. They have been beeping loudly for years when it comes to party support; when it comes to who sponsors the parties' and candidates' campaigns, because far too many parties have had too much to hide. The electorate and the public are entitled to know what financial interests are behind the money sent to politicians sponsoring parties and candidates' campaigns. We all have a responsibility in here to create confidence in the political system in order to avoid suspicion of corruption. When voters have to vote when deciding who should have power, they have to do so on an enlightened basis. Then they have the right to know who has paid thousands or even millions of dollars to the various parties. One of the greatest criticisms in the trade between government and social democracy is that it does not solve the problem of so-called collecting societies or business clubs or money clubs. It is collection associations in which companies and other donors can retain their anonymity, even if they send large sums of money to politicians and parties. In the money clubs you can bypass the rules of openness that exist. That is precisely why money clubs have been criticized over and over again. Why is nothing being done about the money clubs in the agreement that is now in place? One suspects that this is due to the fact that the parties behind the agreement have too much to lose; that they fear that financial support is becoming less and less; that sponsors get cold feet if the Danish people are told who they are. But there is also reason to rejoice today. That is because a very large minority has made an agreement in which we commit ourselves and each other to implementing the recommendations of the Party Support Committee when we get the majority to do so. We will lower the limit on how much money parties and politicians can receive anonymously. We will ensure that the donor's name and the actual and full amount are published as soon as it exceeds a limit of DKK 10,000. These requirements must include not only aid in kroner and ear, but also indirect aid in the form of, for example: campaign bets. At the same time, we want to put an end to the money clubs which have allowed parties and politicians with large sums of money to be supported for a number of years and yet remain anonymous. But I think it's too bad we have to wait. I would therefore like to call on the government, and in particular the Minister of the Liberal Alliance, whom we have been standing with shoulder to shoulder in the past to fight for more openness in politics, to make a new agreement, to invite us all, all parties of the Folketing, to negotiate to meet the criticism that has been voiced for years, and instead to agree on rules for party support that ensure transparency, because we believe that we should do so out of respect for the Danish people. They need to be able to look at us in the cards. And we must do so, not least in respect of the democracy that we should stand together to watch out for.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504111142	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment from Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504111145	Thank you. The rapporteur's party colleague, Mr. Pelle Dragsted asked Mr. Søren Gade from the Left earlier. I think he actually made some fairly gross hints about the questions that were asked. They went on inheritance fees, and how, for example, the Left feels about them and whether there is a connection to the support that the Left receives from some family-owned companies. I would really like to know whether it is the view of the Enhedslisten in general that a party such as the one in the United Kingdom, for example, is a party. The Left, which opposes the inheritance tax on ideological grounds, has other reasons for opposing this inheritance tax. Do you think it is because they have been paid to be against it because they get the support of some parties involved in this? Could the rapporteur perhaps try to unfold what Enhedslisten thinks about the influence of the parties?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504111239	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504111240	What is so important about openness about party support • It's a little bit difficult to see the questioner here is to ensure openness, to counter suspicions of corruption. The people have a right to see the cash flows that exist, so that they do not suspect them, so as to avoid the mistrust that may exist when, for example, they are not allowed to do so. parties are negotiating inheritance tax when parties are negotiating the North Sea Agreement. It's a hugely lucrative deal for Færsk. It can create mistrust, and it can create suspicions. If we dare to lay everything out openly, dare to say clearly to the Danish people that we have nothing to hide, that we have to be seen in the cards, that we have to see who supports us, and that we have to see the full amount, I think we are also countering what the questioner is asking, namely the possible suspicion that we are being influenced by financial donations and sponsorships.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504111333	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504111334	Then I'll ask you directly. Does the Enhedslisten have any suspicion that the Left has allowed itself to be influenced to take a special position on this issue, which I think the rapporteur suggested and which I really think is very indefensible?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504111347	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504111348	I'm not gonna put myself in charge of that. I would like to leave it to the Danish people to judge it. That is why we are working for complete openness on the cash flows and on who sponsors the political parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504111359	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Leif Mikkelsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504111408	Thank you. I think it is worth stating that in Denmark we probably have the least corrupt society, where we have the least opportunity to buy political influence. In fact, I hear virtually all parties pride themselves on the fact that they are not for sale for money in their political priorities. I hope that will continue. We have a support system that is also open and transparent. It has been. There are clear rules. It's gotten even better with this settlement that's been concluded. It's a settlement. That is why, of course, it is up to believers. It forbids anonymous grants, sets clear rules for it, moves the rules of 20,000 kroner. in the local and regional context, and it has an auditor's appointment. That is, in fact, the result of improvements in this proposal. Then the Liberal Alliance will certainly be asked whether we would not like to go further in openness, because we are practicing a high degree of openness on contributors ourselves. We even allow ourselves the luxury of putting the contributors who pay more than DKK 20,000 on the board at our national meetings and thanking them loudly because they have supported Denmark's liberal party. We think it is wise for them to do so. We thank them. So if you do not want to be publicly thanked at a national meeting of the Liberal Alliance, at least you should not give $20,000, I have to say, because then you will be. We're proud of that. We are proud that there are a number of contributors who would like to stand on that board. We even have some that have exactly paid 1 kroner. across the border to get to stand on that board. I would like to pass that idea on to anyone else who would like it. Then you'll be thanked next year. So we practice openness. Those who may think that the rules we adopt do not practice enough openness can then just practise it themselves. Everyone is free to do so if they have agreed with their contributor. We'll let the contributors tell us for themselves if they want to. It is not for us, it is for the giver. That's what's less than 10,000 kroner. And also over 20,000 kroner, if you only need the name. That's a good rule. If you want to move on, you have to agree with your contributor. You can do that. That is why we are in this proposal and think it is a good step in the right direction. If it will one day be possible to create even more openness, then it will certainly be possible to find the Liberal Alliance on that part of the board on the day it is possible. But we've reached a settlement. We stand by that. It's up to believers, and that's true until it's terminated. That is the game, and that is why we can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504111653	Thank you. Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504111656	Thank you. After all, there is a very large minority who have made an agreement that if we get the majority at some point, we will implement the recommendations of the Party Support Committee. And I could read out that the Liberal Alliance is actually more in agreement with us than they are with the government. Would it be possible, after an election, if the Liberal Alliance were no longer in government that the Liberal Alliance would then join us to ensure that this openness is implemented in accordance with what is apparently meant in reality?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504111726	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504111727	I cannot imagine now that the Liberal Alliance is not in government after an election. And hopefully the minority we have is still a minority. That is why it is quite a theoretical question to ask us. We stand by the settlement that has been reached now, and we have no plans to terminate it, because the improvements I have mentioned are there. We stand by that and that is why all other theoretical possibilities are not currently under discussion. We shall then, if necessary, deal with them if that situation arises. For the time being, however, I find that it is a minority, and it is probably also after an election that we will do what we can for it. That is why I cannot really answer that question now.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504111805	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504111806	I think that may be a little strange when the Liberal Alliance can say to the public today that it is actually more in agreement with the very large minority who want more openness than you are with the government of which you are a part. If we then imagine that the Liberal Alliance will be released, will the Liberal Alliance not work for what is the party's real views on openness, that is, what the party has meant for years and what the party has been working for with the rest of us? Are we not going to terminate this conciliation, terminate the agreement and then ensure that we have the openness that we should have had many years ago?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504111842	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504111842-2	It would then be a strange party which is now saying that you want to terminate the agreement you have concluded and which you are ready to vote through in the Folketing today, so you are already announcing that you are so ready to terminate it at some point. Now we see the impact of this, and we stand by an agreement, and you can count on the Liberal Alliance to always stand by an agreement. We do not start by advising that we intend to terminate it at the earliest opportunity. This party doesn't work like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504111910	Sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504111911	The Liberal Alliance always stands by an agreement, says the rapporteur. In this case, however, it is not the agreement that was reached with the electorate before the elections, namely that we would be working for transparency on this. That's what you've signed up for. I think this is another sad example of what happened in the Liberal Alliance after the party joined the government. One liberal principle after another has gone out to the right, and now one has also given up that the Danes must have full insight into what kind of cash flows are introduced into Danish politics. We have agreed to a conciliation agreement which will not even be terminated before an election, and that means that it cannot be changed after the next elections either. I just want to ask you a few questions about the progress of these negotiations. A Party Support Committee has been set up and some recommendations have been made to the Danish Parliament. Why has the Liberal Alliance accepted that this agreement should be made in a narrow circle of the old power parties who have always opposed changes to this? Why has the Liberal Alliance not called for the recommendations that have been made to be implemented, not only by the Party Support Committee, but also by GRECO, which is the international body which monitors corruption-like conditions and which has strongly criticised the Danish party support rules?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504112020	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504112021	Now I'm assuming that too, sir. Pelle Dragsted is aware that those negotiations actually took place before the recent formation of the government, and in that process we made a commitment to support these improvements, because there are improvements, and I have mentioned them. It is a series of improvements that provide more openness and more transparency. The remainder can then be practiced as party itself. That is why we have said that it is one step and it would be strange if we had gone against it at that time. Of course, we are voting in favour, because that is an improvement. We will always pursue an improvement if it is within reach. But now we have a deal and we stand by it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504112100	Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504112101	Of course the Liberal Alliance must vote in favour. We are also voting in favour of the proposal. But there's a big difference between it and locking it. We have made a joint effort here, just as we did in relation to the Public Service Act and on many other issues where we were actually close to having a majority in the Folketing that wanted something other than the old power parties. It's just as if the Liberal Alliance has completely resigned from that fight, and now we're seeing it again today. I just find it sad, because this means that there will still be secrecy and secrecy with the Danes in relation to the political cash flows in Danish politics. It may well be that that agreement was reached before the Liberal Alliance joined the government, but it would then have been possible to beat the table on the day a government basis was negotiated, as has been done in other areas. But apparently, this isn't liberal nuclear for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504112150	Here you go, sir. Leif Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504112151	I think that on the basis of Mr. Pelle Dragsted's statements must have made it quite clear that this is not a closed system and that there is closeness around the political parties. There are now a number of rules and there are clear improvements. Then there is the detail that has been mentioned, namely that of business clubs, collecting clubs, and what is now called them, trade unions, etc. Could greater openness and commitment be achieved in this area? That is what the debate is about, if we are to say it plainly. That is where I say that the parties can practice publishing it. We have a business club in the Liberal Alliance. There is no one who can contribute more than $20,000, because then they will be released for publication in the party. Surely you can just adopt those rules in any party. Then there is a great deal of openness, and then there is no problem. The same applies to the announcement by the trade unions of certain political parties, etc.; there is enough to do if you are going that way. Now good steps have been taken in this direction, and we are voting in favour of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504112245	Then it is Mrs Susanne Eilersen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504112247	Thank you. I would, of course, have asked the same question as my fellow Members, because in fact I was just as happy when the rapporteur started his speech and announced that the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party would have liked us to have gone further, as the committee also recommends, if a majority could have been found for it. And there can be. The Liberal Alliance can be a part of the contribution we have made to the report. There's an opportunity for that. So the rapporteur stands up and speaks both for and against. I would actually like to ask once again: if the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party are not in the government at some point, do you want to support the report that is here?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504112332	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504112333	What I have made quite clear today is that this is a very, very theoretical issue, and it is probably so far in the future that I cannot look quite out there. That is why, of course, I do not want to go into answering such questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504112349	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504112358	The alternative is a value-based party. We are based on six values, and one of them is transparency. I do not think transparency is so easy and good today. As the Enhedslisten's rapporteur also pointed out, the negotiation process behind this agreement has not been very open. I do not really think that when you ask questions to the rapporteurs of the conciliation parties with an honest wonder what the arguments are for not going further than this, you get proper answers. It's a problem with our party associations or being hung out on Facebook. But I do not think it gives the basic argument that explains why you do not go any further now that you have the chance. So I think there are a few reasons why we should cover up the amount that people pay in party support. And that is what we are discussing today, that is, the law on private contributions to political parties, the publication of political parties' accounts and the law on financial support for political parties, etc. It can surely be said that this is a very long-awaited proposal. In 2015, the Party Support Committee made its recommendations in a report. They propose a number of things that are directly to implement. However, these are not the recommendations proposed by the government. Instead, a number of things are being proposed which are both positive and positive. that the rules for transparency of contributions of more than DKr 20,000. In regional and local politics, the same requirements apply to land policy; anonymous grants of more than DKr 20,000. be prohibited; the country organisations of the parties shall be subject to an audit obligation. These are all positive things which are a step in the right direction, but we think that this is too small a step. Denmark has received criticism of the Council of Europe's anti-corruption unit GRECO, because there is far too little openness about party support in Denmark. In fact, we are in the category of globally unsatisfactory, which is the hardest criticism we can get. After all, it creates distrust of the political system, and no one knows whether a party or individuals allow their political opinions and decisions to be influenced by contributors with large purses. We do not know if this is happening in Denmark. But the possibility is there because in this area it's so incredibly closed. We believe that this is a major problem. Transparency about the cash flows in politics is essential for a well-functioning democracy. That is why we believe that at least the recommendations of the Party Support Committee should be introduced and, as I have said, they are straightforward to implement. So it is quite a mystery why the government and the Social Democrats will not do so. In other words, the recommendations of the party support committee go, among other things. to the effect that the limit on the time when contributions may be secret will be reduced from DKK 20,000. 10,000 kroner.; the exact amount of the total private contribution from each donor is published; that we are getting rid of the so-called'money clubs', i.e. money clubs that allow people and companies that are particularly generous towards some parties to stay completely out of the spotlight with what we think is legitimate creative technical manoeuvres and much more. We are of the opinion that Danish democracy deserves real transparency about the cash flows in Danish politics. We are therefore very pleased that we have been able to shake hands with the Enhedslisten, the Danish People's Party, the Radical Left and the Socialist People's Party that we will introduce the recommendations of the Party Support Committee on the day we get a majority. And I look forward very much to it when I or any other rapporteur for the alternative, in a future progressive majority, can take up this platform and, together with other rapporteurs, proclaim that Parliament intends to introduce the recommendations of the Party Support Committee. In the meantime, we are voting in favour of this bill, which everything else will be a small step in the right direction. But I hope that the government and the Social Democrats will change their attitude so that together we can ensure much more openness in Danish politics than this bill will create.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504112736	Thank you, sir. Torsten Gejl, and then it's Mr. Torsten Gejl. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504112741	In the Radical Left, we take the view that it is quite fine for people, organisations and companies to make a contribution to a party. We think that's really fine if anyone wants to. And then we think that the parties should be open about it so that the voters can see who has given what and to whom and what amount. We're voting for this bill because everything else equals better than the law that is. This bill will ensure transparency about the donations that come to, for example. an association or a circuit association where, if the donation has been made at local level, it is not actually required to disclose it in its party accounts today. You know, you sort that out. You also get a handle on the fact that all parties do that most people in advance must have an accountant on, so you can be sure that the party has informed about everything that has come in. We think that is also sensible. However, as has also emerged from the debate so far, we are in the fairly large minority who would like to go further. We would also like to see transparency on what some call in-kind, that is to say donations, which are not an amount that comes into an account, but such as. could be an ad. We would also like to see openness on these associations where money is being collected so that the people can also see what has come in there. Finally, we would also like to see the limit on when to remain anonymous reduced from this DKK 21,000, I think it ends with the bill here, to DKK 10,000, so that more things have to be published. So we, like many others, have a desire to go further, but we support the bill because it is better than the law that applies today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504112942	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504112946	Thank you for that and thank you for the debate. This bill comes after many years of discussions on how to organise party support and party support rules, even after we have received a lot of criticism as a country for not having enough openness and transparency. In relation to the question of party support, I really like the way the Party Support Committee has perceived it to receive party support, namely that it is quite okay to get party support, that it is okay that some companies or associations want to support some parties, also with considerable amounts of money, but that there should be transparency about it, so that the voters themselves can take the consequence they now want to take, on the basis of it, and so that you can see who is really supported with what and by whom. So it is just to say that I really think it is quite okay with party support, but I think it must be a goal to have more openness, and that is also what both the Greco and the Party Support Committee have just said. This bill is a few steps along the way. This debate has set out what steps it is taking: greater openness on private financial support for parties, candidate lists and individual candidates, and also the fact that anonymous grants of more than DKr 20,000 are no longer allowed. I think that is quite reasonable. I just think we should have gone further, and I think that should have been done together between all the parties. I can therefore also regret the fact that there has been a slightly closed process about how this agreement has come into being. I know that this is an opportunity for a government, but I really think that we parties have a common interest in creating transparency about this. I also think that in the long term we can go even further than what is in this draft law. That is why I am also pleased with the rather large and also slightly different minority than usual, together with the Danish People's Party, the alternative, the Radical Left and the Enhedslisten, who say: we think that, when it becomes possible to do so in relation to the majority, we should go further and, for example, we should go further. publish the amount when the amount received is more than DKr 20,000, and also that anonymous grants of between DKr 10,000 and DKr 20,000 may not be received. Then there is something that has not been said much in the debate, and I am actually saying it just to bring a little pragmatism into the debate. After all, the party support committee recognizes the problem that if we want to demand complete transparency about the amount of the parties, for example. I have to say that we now have a lot of DKK 500,000, but then there is also the risk that the parties will get less. The Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and the Working Environment actually writes that clearly, and I think that should be recognised by those parties that want more openness, because that is a problem if the political parties are weakened from that point of view. That is why I really think that the proposal that Mr. Henrik Sass Larsen came along with the idea that it was in Berlingske that it was a way to go, namely to work towards a model where there is total openness about both the amount and where the amount comes from, but where in return you strengthen the parties and give the parties more power so that they are not dependent on these private donations. For the parties are dependent on outside support if they want to conduct good campaigns and deliver their messages, and I just think that if you want this openness, you have to strengthen the parties too. I sometimes find that a little forgotten in this debate, which is why I would just like to hope that, if we go further at some point and ensure more openness, as the Party Support Committee recommends, we may also be ready to strengthen the parties, because I believe that is in the interests of all of us. So we are voting for this because it is a step in the right direction because, after all, it ensures more openness, but we look forward to one day obtaining a majority in order to ensure even more transparency on party support rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504113356	Thank you, sir. Jacob Mark. Then it is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504113401	Thank you. After all, there has already been a long and contentious debate, and I am going a little like the raisin at the end of the sausage. That is why I also have the opportunity to pick up some of what has been said so far, and I really think that Mr. Leif Mikkelsen made a very important point, namely that Denmark is one of the least corrupt countries in the world. We should welcome this in this debate, in which I think it could quickly sound as if all sorts of hints were made about its political players and opponents. There are a number of changes to this bill. As mentioned, in the municipalities and regions, candidates and parties have the same obligation to report and publish amounts of more than DKr 20,000. I have to admit, personally, that this is how I thought it was already. I have certainly had that faith, and I believe that many other candidates have also believed that the same rules applied in municipal and regional elections as in parliamentary elections. So I really do not think it will make a big difference, but at least now we are ensuring that it is established by law. In addition, the possibility of anonymous contributions of more than DKK 20,000 disappears. I am aware that not all the criticisms made by GRECO have been met, but there are a good number which are met with the agreement that has been reached here. That is why we can also support it in the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504113538	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are some comments. Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504113543	Now I know the rapporteur as a politician who is always making a great effort to answer the questions that are being asked from down here, and I very, very much appreciate that. There is simply something in this that I do not understand and that the rapporteur may be able to shed light on: why is it that the people, our voters, should not be able to see exactly who is giving money to politicians? Because if you don't do this with money clubs, there could still be these anonymous contributions. That is my one question. Why is it that it is not the full amount? There's so much money. What must the people not be told, since they do not go all the way and follow the recommendations of the Party Support Committee and ensure the openness that has been demanded for so many years?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504113636	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504113638	Now the questioner very cleverly put some pressure on me by the initial praise in relation to actually answering the questions. But I have to make as much effort as I possibly can. The questioner asks when support is given to politicians. When support is given to politicians, it is subject to party support rules, and then it must be made public who has given if it is amounts of more than DKK 20,000. In this way, the public today has access to see who has given support. In addition, we also publish our final, comprehensive accounts, where you can go in and see what the Conservative People's Party has received in total funding. So you have a total amount, you have a list of those who have contributed over $20,000, and then I actually don't think it's that important whether some have paid $30,000 or if they have paid $50,000. I feel as a politician that today I have no idea who has given what subsidies to the Conservative People's Party. I can say this with complete loyalty to my own duty of truth: I have no idea. And I feel good about that as a politician, because then I know it doesn't affect me in the decisions I have to make. That knowledge is nice for me to have.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504113743	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504113745	But if it doesn't matter to the rapporteur whether it's 30 000 kroner. Or 50,000 kroner, why can't people know? And it is not right that it should be published as soon as you give money to politicians or parties, and that is over DKK 20,000, because you have this loophole in the form of business clubs and collecting societies, which have been criticised a great deal, precisely because they make it possible to bypass what is meant by the rules, namely that you have to see why the Conservative People's Party has not taken care to close that gap and to make sure that it doesn't matter that the population gets access to the full amount. I honestly don't understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504113825	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504113826	In the author's first question, the questioner asked about the support given to politicians. And that's what I said. Now the questioner asks about the parties, and I understand that there are some rules in relation to business associations. However, I think I actually replied to what was asked in the first question, namely support for politicians. Then there is also the question: why not just publish it if it doesn't matter to me as a politician? It doesn't matter to me as a politician, but I'm not sure it doesn't matter to companies. I think sir... Søren Gade is absolutely right in what he said from the platform earlier, namely that there are many companies who are concerned that we will have a public court, in relation to which parties they support with what amounts. And somewhere I think that it is positive when there is a contribution to democracy, because the brochures that we can all print are the ones that make us come out on the street and meet the voters and discuss politics.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504113913	Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504113915	I have the most recently published annual accounts of the Conservatives here before me, and it appears that one of the contributors of more than DKr 20,000. is something called C-Business, which is one of these business clubs. I would just like to hear from the rapporteur whether he would like to tell us which company is hiding behind C-Business. How many of them have paid more than $20,000 and how many have paid less than $20,000.? And if so, what are the amounts?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504113944	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504113945	I would like to reply to the rapporteur if I could, but I cannot, because I have no idea what amounts of aid have been granted to the Conservative People's Party. As an elected politician, I am completely out of that, and I am so comfortable with that. It's our party secretariat that takes care of that kind of thing. I'm not lobbying in companies for them to join C-Business. It's separate from us. Somebody else is taking care of that. So I simply cannot answer who has paid more than 20,000 kroner and what amounts they may have given, because that is not a knowledge I have. That is why I can be absolutely sure that it does not affect me in the political work I do either.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504114020	One should be kind enough to speak up for one's second brief remark. Here you go, sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504114023	I shall try to remember that; it is a new rule. Now I know that other business clubs, for example. The Government Party of the Left's business club has special arrangements in which ministers appear. It even takes place at the Prime Minister's residence, Marienborg, and there, if you have 20,000 DKK, you can buy yourself special access to the country's ministers. I do not know whether this is also the case with the Conservatives. But this whole thing about there being total separation between the elected representatives and these money clubs is only with the Conservative People's Party. The rapporteur can therefore say whether or not the rapporteur can rule out the fact that there are also such arrangements where politicians meet the members of these professional clubs. That would be a great surprise to me, because that is certainly not the case in the other parties. My question is really just: would it not be reasonable for the Danes who will vote for the Conservative People's Party to know who is hiding behind C-Business?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504114119	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504114120	That, sir. Pelle Dragsted asked me in his first question, how many people in this business club give over 20,000 kroner, and I don't know that. Quite frankly, I do not know. I know the names of several of the companies and associations and all sorts of other things that are part of C-Business, and I sometimes come to these events and discuss business policy, legal policy and everything else with these people. But I have no idea how much they've given. I think there's some kind of lump sum to be in this club, and I don't know if anyone's gonna pay more than that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504114151	Sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504114154	It is true that we are one of the least corrupt countries in the world, and it is wonderful, but that does not mean that we should not worry about Denmark having long received criticism of the Council of Europe's anti-corruption unit, GRECO, because there is far too little openness about party support in Denmark, in fact we are in the category globally unsatisfactory, which is the hardest criticism one can get in this area. It's because we care about these challenges. We're worried about these issues, and there I'm still missing a main argument as to why we're not moving on now when we're so good in this field. I think the argument is fluttering. The Social Democrats believe that this creates trouble in the party associations. The Left rapporteur has said that people are being hung on Facebook. Conservatives' rapporteur says that it is a good feeling not to know. But it seems like an argument that flies in all directions, instead of being put together and finding out with open eyes that that is why we are doing it. There's a basic argument. I still miss that one. Can the rapporteur give me some inter-accounts? Why is it that we should not disclose how much people pay if it is over 20,000 kroner.?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504114305	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504114307	It is quite possible that the questioner is right in that the argument is fluttering, understood in that we have different reasons why we think this is a sensible agreement. There is a difference between the Liberal Alliance, the Conservative People's Party, the Left and the Social Democratic Party. It is there, so I think it is quite fair that we have different arguments behind this proposal. I myself have not been involved in the process when this agreement was made, and if there is a concession, so to speak, that I would like to give from the platform today, it is that I think we should have a better process around some of these things, including inside the party. I think I have had some reflections on how we ourselves are discussing this within my party. I do not think it has filled enough in our internal debate, so that is one of the things I am taking with me from the Chamber today, but I stand entirely by the conciliation we have reached, even though the parties have different views as to why you have now landed where you are.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504114359	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504114410	I would like to start by thanking you for a good debate, which has, of course, come down to many details on the issue of private contributions to political parties. I understand that, in general terms, there is a positive indication of the draft law. I do not quite have an overview of whether it is all parties that vote in favour, but it seems that we are very close in any case, and as a minister we can only be happy about that. The bill we are discussing here results in a political agreement that has been concluded between the Tripartite Government and the Social Democratic Party and which requires a change of law. The draft law thus translates four elements of the agreement. Firstly, transparency of contributions to all levels of the parties and to individual candidates; secondly, prohibition of anonymous contributions above the limit of DKK 20,000. for parties and candidate lists; third, a price adjustment of the limit of DKK 20,000.; and, fourthly, the obligation to audit the accounts of the parties' national organisations. The part of the political agreement that does not require amendment, the fifth element, will be implemented by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Interior, following the adoption of the bill, drawing up a guidance document setting out detailed guidelines on when aid is covered by the Party Support Act and the Party Accounts Act. After all, the party support area can share the waters, and it can at least lead to a major debate, but I think it is gratifying that in one of the least corrupt countries in the world we are now making more open party support legislation than has been the case so far, something that has been talked about for many years and something that has not been done about, but which is actually succeeding in doing something about. So I am glad that we have made this agreement, and I am glad that we will have more openness, and I am glad that it seems that it is even a very broad majority in the Folketing that supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504114647	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments, first from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504114652	I would like to ask the representative of the government, the minister, about the progress of this agreement. Because I think it is strange that not all parties of the Folketing have been invited, but only a small, exclusive crowd. I could understand that, sir. Leif Mikkelsen, that the class is even more exclusive than initially assumed, namely that it is not the governing parties and the social democracy, but that it is the Left and the Social Democracy because the agreement was made before the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives entered the government. Has this been the case? Is this agreement based on two parties that have decided how this is going to be forward-looking, and have the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives so directed?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504114733	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504114735	Firstly, I would just like to start by saying that it is not quite unusual that there are debates in the Folketing where not all parties of the Folketing are invited. Enhedslisten has probably experienced this in other cases, if I can reasonably correctly Enhedslisten's party history, and we have also had to be true in the Liberal Alliance over the years. Even when ministers have sometimes said that they thought we should be involved, we have been told that for some strange reason this could not be done because there was a party in that circle that was not interested in bringing us along. Sometimes there has not even been a reason, and then one has just been able to guess why it has been that way. Secondly, if you look at the outcome of the last parliamentary elections, you will certainly see that the Left and Social Democrats do not have a majority in the Folketing alone, which is why they cannot, of course, make agreements without the participation of other parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504114831	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504114832	This is so basic. This is about the ability of the people and voters to understand what economic interests lie behind the parties. These are some rules that concern us all. It is therefore strange that not all parties in the Folketing have been invited to follow up on the recommendations of a government-appointed committee of experts on party support. Can the Minister please explain to the Folketing why it has been a small closed crowd that has held a negotiating meeting on this without involving all of us?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504114908	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504114909	Firstly, I agree that this is a matter of principle. That is why I am incredibly pleased, both in principle and in reality, that we are now getting more openness about party support in Denmark • the most open party support law we have had in this country. I think that's really nice. Secondly, we have, of course, reached an agreement that we are delighted with with, with some cooperation parties, in this case the Social Democratic Party, with which we are pleased to have reached an agreement. It's not like Enhedslisten is going to get involved in everything Enhedslisten wants. It is also the case that Enhedslisten probably thinks it would be nice to influence the Finance Act under this government, but I doubt it will happen to a greater extent than with smaller partial agreements. But that's just my guess, and maybe Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding has another guess.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504114959	Sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504114959-2	I guess the thing is, in this company, the Liberal Alliance has entered into an alliance with the old power parties to maintain a very great secrecy. I guess that's the short story. What is then the question is what will the Liberal Alliance do in the future. Because I was in a debate with the minister when the agreement had been made, namely in the debate on the DR, and then the minister said that the minister saw this as a marathon race, where the first kilometres had now been reached, and that the minister was prepared to go further, and get more openness. Now a marathon race is about 42 km, so the first kilometers I must understand as a relatively small part of the road. So my question is really just: does the Minister stand by what the Minister said in the debate at the time, namely that we, for example, are going to do. on the other side of an election can take steps so that we can just get close to the recommendations made by both the Party Support Committee and Greco? Because it may well be that we have the most open party support legislation ever in Denmark, but we still have the least open party support legislation in relation to comparable countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504115107	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504115108	Now I think, sir. Pelle Dragsted needs to relax a bit. If we look at some of the comparable countries, Norway has a limit of DKK 28,500. The Netherlands has a limit of DKK 33,500, the UK has a limit of DKK 65,400, and Germany has a limit of DKK 74,400. This is to be compared to the DKK 20,000 we have here in Denmark. So be careful what conclusions you draw about what is the most and what is the least, because it is probably the most blood pressure that is going to rise by it, and not the limits of the sums and fortunately for it, because we have had no intention of doing so. What I can say is that, of course, I stand by the words I have said. Sir. Leif Mikkelsen has given an excellent account of the political views of the Liberal Alliance, and I welcome the fact that the Liberal Alliance has succeeded in introducing more openness into party support, contrary to what succeeded in Enhedslisten when they were the support party for the government of Poul Nyrup Rasmussen and later Helle Thorning-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504115213	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504115215	I'm relaxing. I'm not the one running a marathon. I'm the minister. But let's just leave it alone. It is true that there are some other limits elsewhere, but on the other hand there is full transparency as to what amounts are given on the other side of the limit, and that is the criticism here. I have not heard anyone who has criticized violently where the limit is. We would like it to be slightly lower, but the big problem is, of course, that there is no openness on the other side. And the biggest problem is the existence of these professional clubs, which in this way undermines everything else, because they can still bypass the rules through the establishment of a business club. But I would rather return to the second, because, as I understood the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, this agreement was made in the way I think the Minister understood the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504115305	That's good.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504115308	Two things I think there were, if I could hear it all. Firstly, I would like to say to the second that this agreement has been concluded while I have been Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior, and I am in favour of that. Secondly, and in relation to professional clubs, I would just like to repeat that, Mr President. Leif Mikkelsen said: In the Liberal Alliance we feel that we cannot give more than DKK 20,000. a year to the party through our business club. You can't do that. In other words, in the Liberal Alliance, we ourselves have imposed the same rules, no matter where the money might come from, and I just want to say that we are very proud of that. Because we are proud of the people who sponsor our party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504115357	Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504115359	Thank you. I've been hunting for the meaning of this today. When I went into the Chamber today, I knew what I was going to vote, but I thought that when I go out, I'll try to find out why it's that the government doesn't want to go any further on this issue. There has been a jigsaw puzzle of arguments from the fact that it causes trouble in the party associations... it's a mess that the alternative would like to impose on our party associations in exchange for transparency... to the fact that it's nice not to know what I would think it was nice to know or that you're being hung out on Facebook. There I wanted to hear the Minister of the Liberal Alliance: what is your argument?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504115434	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504115436	I just wanted to say that I am the minister of the country. I stand at the goal of the political agreement that has been made, and I do not go into an archaeological work and ask the Social Democratic Party, the Left, the Conservative People's Party. I ask, of course, why it is that you mean what you do. It is not crucial to me why the parties believe as they do. What I welcome is that we will have more openness. We will have transparency about contributions to all levels of the parties and to individual candidates; we will have a ban on anonymous contributions above the limit of DKK 20,000.; and we will have an audit obligation on the accounts of the parties' national organisations. I guess that's why, too, sir. Torsten Gejl's party votes in favour. This is because this is a proposal that is moving in the right direction if you mean what the alternative means.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504115527	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504115529	Thank you. Then I would like to ask the country's minister: why is it that the Liberal Alliance does not want to go further? What are the arguments?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504115538	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504115540	Sir. Leif Mikkelsen has rightly argued and explained the views of the Liberal Alliance. They are known, and they are also referred to by Enhedslisten. It is a wonderful day, people are interested in our views, and then it is just that I say: it is a good day when we move in the direction that the Liberal Alliance wants. Surely I should be a dungeon if I was not pleased that now it is finally going in the direction that the Liberal Alliance would like. It's been 20-25 years, or how much it's been since you last changed this, not going in the right direction. Now it's doing it. Congratulations to us.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504115619	Thank you. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. Are there any comments? It's agreed. Then I will postpone the sitting until 8 a.m. 13.00.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504130015	The sitting is resumed. It's 3:00 p.m. 13, and we welcome you, especially to our guests, who have waited a long time, and especially to the Minister, who could now come forward, and everyone else. The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Malte Larsen of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504130055	Thank you. As our rapporteur, Magnus Heunicke, unfortunately cannot be present in the Chamber today, I should like to read out the rapporteur's speech. The draft law before us abolishes the right to vote in local, regional and European elections for foreigners, for example. is in Denmark on toiled stays or who are deported foreigners. Today, it is already the case that, for example, extradited foreigners do not have the right to vote in elections to the Folketing or in referendums. In this way, this proposal envisages streamlining electoral law in Denmark in this area. For example, a foreigner on tolerated stays can: be expelled from Denmark because of serious crimes or because it is estimated that the person is a threat to the security of the state. In this case, a foreigner on tolerated residence would most often only be in Denmark, as a repatriation can lead to inhumane treatment in the country of origin. Therefore, it is also a temporary stay, which is why the deported person has no future in Denmark. For the same reasons, therefore, it is natural that foreigners who are on toiled stay do not have an influence on elections to the municipal council, to the regional council or to the European Parliament, in Denmark. The same applies to exiled foreigners. These are foreigners who are serving their sentence or waiting for repatriation. That is why the deportee is still in the country, even though the deportee has in principle been expelled. Here again, it seems very simple that if you have been expelled from Denmark, the right to vote is removed. As a matter of principle, if you are deported or have no future in Denmark, you should not have any influence on the way in which society is organized. As mentioned earlier, this principle already applies to elections to the Folketing and referendums in Denmark, thus transferring the same basic view to other elections in the Danish context. We also support the rapid entry into force of the proposal, so that the proposal will apply from the next municipal and regional elections in November. It is in line with that principle and for the reasons given above that we in the Social Democratic Party support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504130307	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504130313	Thank you. That is one of the reasons the rapporteur uses, which I do not fully understand. The rapporteur refers to the fact that those concerned do not have the right to vote in local elections and the right to vote in referendums, and that is absolutely correct. But the reason they do not have it is that they are not Danish citizens. So it's a condition they share with many, many others. So I just don't understand that part of the argument. The second part I understand, and I do not agree with that. But that part of it I don't understand. Because how are you going to streamline it? After all, there is no streamlining when there are many others who are in the same situation for the same reason, namely that they do not have a Danish citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504130354	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504130356	I was just wondering if there was a question at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504130401	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504130403	I do not understand why the rapporteur uses that argument. Because the reason why those concerned do not have the right to vote and vote in referendums is that they are not Danish citizens. That is why it cannot be said that we must then streamline it and deprive them of the right to vote in municipal elections. Because if that is the argument, we must deprive many, many other people of the right to vote. 'Cause I guess that's about 8 percent. of the people who, because they do not have Danish citizenship, cannot vote for parliamentary elections and do not have the right to vote in referendums, is it not? I hope the rapporteur understands the problem now.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504130444	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504130445	It's a little technical. However, I am not, of course, seeking to deprive the large residual group we are talking about here of the right to vote, but to focus solely on those who are here on tolerated residences or have been expelled and not to have the right to vote that they could have had in the forthcoming regional and local elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504130501	It does not give extra questions, whether you understand any questions or answers. We move on to the next rapporteur, Mrs Susanne Eilersen from the Danish People's Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504130512	Thank you for that, President. The draft law we are now debating must ensure that foreigners who have been sentenced to death and who have been sentenced to expulsion and who have been administratively expelled cannot obtain the right to vote in local and regional elections and elections to the European Parliament in Denmark. After all, this is an issue that the Danish People's Party has pointed out before and has also asked the government to look at, i.e. whether there were some things in relation to people who live here on tolerated residence, and some rights they had that we might have to cancel. So we are very pleased that the Minister and the government are now following up on this. The Danish People's Party wanted to go further; nor do we believe that people who are not Danish citizens should have the right to vote in municipal or regional elections. After all, the bill is in line with the agreement made by the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party with the government on stricter control of foreigners on tolerated residence, in June 2016. In fact, I think there are many Danes who sit out there in front of the screens listening with, who wonder to hear that foreigners living in Denmark who have the right to vote and are therefore also eligible for local and regional elections. It is unheard of, and it is good that we are now changing it. Of course, citizens who are in every way unwanted in Denmark should not have any influence on Danish democracy, no matter how many citizens this is about. Clearly, it offends our sense of justice. It is quite wrong, of course, for one hand to make measures that clearly signal that they are not wanted in the country, and then with the other hand issue electoral cards and thus invite the same citizen to take an active part in Danish democracy. It is good that we are now putting an end to this, and the Danish People's Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504130703	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504130707	Thank you. I know this has nothing to do with this proposal, but now the rapporteur himself mentioned it, in other words that some others should have taken away the right to vote in local and regional elections. That is how I understood it and the elections to the European Parliament. Is that correct? Otherwise, the rapporteur will have to clarify what the rapporteur said and which groups we shall then be talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504130727	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504130728	It has been correctly heard and that is what Finn Sørensen asked a question about to the Social Democratic Party: that people who do not have Danish citizenship should not have the right to vote in municipal and regional elections, and that is why we are putting all kinds of elections on an equal footing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504130745	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504130746	Thank you. It was not entirely by chance that I asked the Socialist rapporteur about this, because I could see at once that it could be used as an argument to exclude many, many more from the possibility of exercising a democratic right, including people with whom we have no legal or otherwise problems, in relation to their being in this country, unless one has a position that one does not like them here, but with whom we have no legal, legal problems. How large a group does the rapporteur think about? Is that the 8-9 percent? of the population or so, who do not have a Danish citizenship? Are they those who, according to the Danish People's Party, should also be deprived of the right to vote in municipal, regional and European elections?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504130830	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504130831	That's right, yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504130835	Thank you to Mrs Susanne Eilersen. I would like to welcome Mr. Carl Holst from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504130843	Thank you for that, President. The Left, as the two previous rapporteurs said, can support the proposal. What we support is based on the scale of the legislative proposal, in other words, that citizens who are foreigners who are allowed to stay, exiled foreigners or administratively expelled foreigners are all in a category that is here temporarily because they cannot be expelled. And we are of the opinion that when the opportunity arises, they must be deported. With the support of this bill, the Left does not mean that anyone who today does not have the right to vote in referendums and parliamentary elections, but who has it in other elections, must have taken it away. We are dealing with the group described here. Is there anyone in that group, as one could imagine, that should apply in the future? I will not rule that out, but we do not have the approach that it is one to one, so that citizens who have the right to vote in municipal and regional elections should not have it in parliamentary elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504131017	Thank you. There is also a brief comment from Mr Seligman. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504131021	Thank you. Again, I have to say that I am a little sad that the debate is spreading beyond what we are going to discuss, but I actually see it as such that the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party just like took the cork off the bottle as far as that debate is concerned. Is it my understanding, then, that the rapporteur disagrees with the Danish People's Party in that they say that the large group of people who do not have Danish citizenship and therefore do not have the right to vote to the Folketing and to referendums must also have deprived them of their right to vote in local and regional elections and to the European Parliament?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504131105	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504131106	I'm not going to judge how to weigh the disagreement. I can repeat what I thought I was trying to convey clearly. We do not believe that there must necessarily be a link between who has the right to vote in local and regional elections and who has it in the parliamentary elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504131131	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504131132	Thank you. I thought I was trying to ask the question so that it could be answered yes or no. What does it mean that it doesn't have to be one to one? Well, it's a slightly woolly formulation. Is there a small door to move towards the Danish People's Party's point of view?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504131151	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504131151-2	I think the questioner has the ability to look at some things in detail and also understand the nuances when they say: we are dealing with the bill in relation to the population groups we are talking about: foreigners on tolerated residences, expelled foreigners and administratively expelled foreigners. There may be others, I will not rule that out, but it is quite clear that we do not believe that we should say in legislative terms that it should be one to one, so that, when you do not have the right to vote in the parliamentary elections, you should have withdrawn the right to vote in municipal and regional elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504131235	Thank you, sir. Carl Holst. There are no more brief comments, and we therefore welcome Mr. Finn Sørensen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504131247	Thank you. In my rapporteur's speech, I shall now concentrate on the legislative proposal that we have to deal with. The unitary list is basically of the opinion that the right to vote in local and regional elections and in the European Parliament must be subject to the possession of a residence permit in this country. It can be said that, overall, we agree with the view underlying the draft law. However, the right to vote is one of the fundamental human rights. It ranks completely in line with another very, very important and fundamental right, namely freedom of expression. It must therefore be the case that if we want to restrict such a right, in this case the right to vote, for a group of people who are large or small, then it requires a very, very thorough assessment, in which all matters must be taken into account. We don't think the government has done that in connection with this bill. The government is not concerned that we are talking about people who, for many, have been told that they are not wanted in Denmark, so in other words they will be staying in Denmark for very, very many years, because it is not possible to send them home because of the conditions in the country of origin or because no country will accept them. At the same time, we are, as a party, and I believe that this is a publicly known thing, at least here in the Chamber, very critical of the restrictions that have been made on expulsions, and we are very critical of the conditions that people are being offered to stay in. It also plays a part, of course, in assessing, as a party, whether to support a legislative proposal such as this. It is, after all, a far-reaching thing to restrict a democratic right. We also very much agree with the Institute for Human Rights, which points out in their hearing that the government has not made a thorough assessment of whether the bill complies with Denmark's international obligations. With these reasons, the Enhedslisten will vote against the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504131505	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Carl Holst.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504131509	Since we are now going back to what the draft law is all about, can the rapporteur understand that when we talk about the narrowly defined group on tolerated residence, expelled foreigners, administratively expelled foreigners, we are talking about a group which is here because of some rules but which, according to Danish legislation, should not have been here at all, and that it is therefore possible to question whether they are part of the democratic community; that said, regardless of whether there are any other views on how they should be here and elsewhere? I am now trying to get the rapporteur to deal a little narrowly with the text of the bill and the group of people we are talking about in relation to the legislative procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504131615	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504131616	Thank you. And thank you for the question. Well, as I said at the outset, that is actually what I did in my rapporteur's speech. After all, it is built up and starts with something that we basically agree on, namely that voting rights for the bodies we are talking about should be subject to the possession of a residence permit. This may, of course, also be a relevant discussion as to whether groups which do not have a residence permit in Denmark should have the right to vote in these bodies. That is, of course, in my whole rapporteur's speech. But what I am also saying, and that is where I think the government does not meet the obligations of dealing with such an issue, is that limiting electoral rights is a very, very intrusive measure. It is interference in a fundamental human right that has been laid down, cast in concrete, in international conventions that we have signed up to, and before them, even before we joined them, electoral law is described in our constitution as an absolutely fundamental right. There we say: if you want to consider restricting such a fundamental right, you have to do the work much, much better than the government has done. Then we should have followed the recommendation from the Institute for Human Rights that a very thorough assessment be made. Is this in line with our international commitments? And I could add: is it in accordance with the basic spirit of our own constitution on the importance of electoral law? We do not think that the government has solved that and that is why we are voting against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504131804	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504131805	I note now that the Ministry's consultation note points out that it is believed to be within the framework of international conventions. I just find the rapporteur expressing his understanding that some groups can be deprived of the right to vote, but we are voting against the proposal because it concerns some other groups. However, the group we are talking about here is probably a group of citizens who are not exactly characterised by their having a residence permit in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504131841	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504131842	I think that was a very brief and precise rapporteur's speech. I think I made a lot of effort to be brief and precise. We are talking about the group described in the bill. I have read the bill and I am well aware of what kind of group we are talking about. And then I point out one important thing that the government has not dealt with, namely that a large part of these people, whom we as a state do not want for various reasons, are staying in this country for very, very many years, and it is then an intrusive measure against these people to deprive them of the opportunity to influence part of their own terms and that is what happens when they restrict election rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504131929	There is another question from Mrs Susanne Eilersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504131935	Thank you. In fact, I did not intend to take the floor, but I think this is just going to be so pretty and complicated. Because the rapporteur suddenly shoots both the rapporteur and myself in the shoes of something quite different. As I know, it was the rapporteur himself who first asked the Socialist rapporteur whether this was also the case with the other group. So it is the rapporteur himself who, like a completely different group of people, maybe because you want to get that group of people into this. However, I think we lack a clear answer from the rapporteur as to why it is a good idea that people who are clearly undesirable in this country, because they either have a judgment or something else, should participate in a democratic process in this country and be active participants in it. I would like to have a word on that from the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504132025	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504132026	In other words, my question to the Social Democrats was not that we should involve the other group. It was to clarify what the Socialist rapporteur used, which happened to sound almost like the argument that the Danish People's Party used a little later, namely that it drew the parallel to the question of citizenship and used it as a reason for not having the right to vote. And then it was just that I asked what about everyone else who doesn't have citizenship either. Fortunately, the Socialist rapporteur replied, and I am glad that it was not about removing the right to vote from all of them. And then the rapporteur himself agreed to it. As far as the second point is concerned, I cannot really add anything to what I have said. Our basic view is that voting rights are linked to residence permits. But restricting electoral law, a fundamental democratic right, for a group of people, requires, to put it in Danish, a very good reason. We can't find that here. I myself point to an important relationship, namely that many of these will be in Denmark for very many years.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504132138	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504132139	Residence permit is one thing, but this is a tolerated stay. It is only because there are some other conventions and regulations that will allow them to stay in this country, otherwise we would have sent them home. So they are actually here as unwanted, so you can't compare people who are here with a residence permit with people who are on tolerated residence. Can the rapporteur not agree with me on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504132206	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504132206-2	The rapporteur cannot then agree with the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, because then we would only have voted in favour of the draft law. We need to look at the situation in which these people find themselves. It is true that the Danish state has decided that they should not stay here in Denmark, but our international obligations and those of Enhedslisten are happy, perhaps unlike the Danish People's Party, preventing us from sending people home for torture, the death penalty, personal persecution. That is what makes it necessary for us also to look at whether it is reasonable to deprive them of a fundamental democratic right during the long period they will be living in Denmark. Plus one more thing, which I also point out, namely that we are very, very disagreeable with the Danish People's Party and the ruling majority in the Danish Parliament in relation to the austerity that has been introduced as reasons for being able to expel people.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504132304	Thank you, sir. Finn Sørensen. There are no more brief comments, so welcome to Mr. Villum Christensen as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504132312	The draft law we are discussing here will deprive people who have been expelled from Denmark or who are in the country on tolerated residence, the right to vote in municipal and regional councils and the European Parliament. The same applies to persons who serve their sentence from an international criminal court. As it is today, these people do not have the right to vote in the Folketing, so it is natural that they do not have it either for municipal councils, regional councils and the European Parliament. After all, these are people who should not in any way be part of Danish society, and that is why, of course, they should not have a democratic influence on our country. Quite frankly, I see this as being fairly obvious. Not everyone does it, I can hear it. And I do so, although it is of course never quite a problem-free matter in principle to deprive people of their right to vote. We're all in on that. However, when it comes to a group of people who are only temporarily present in the country and who, as a society, have decided not to be here, I can live with the democratic concern. So for these reasons, the Liberal Alliance supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504132436	Thank you, sir. Villum Christensen. There are no brief comments, so we shall move on to Mr Beazley's report. Torsten Gejl as rapporteur for the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504132444	Thank you. In the alternative, we are not in favour of removing the right to vote in local and regional elections for people who have been sentenced to expulsion or who have been detained. It is people who have already been in Denmark for 3 years to get that right, and no one knows whether they will be here 1 week or 10 years more. And as the SOS against Racism states in their consultation responses, the listed groups have a particular interest in gaining participation in local politics, that is, where they are and where they might be for years. It can be in relation to transport or other close things. The SOS against Racism also considers it undemocratic to remove democratic rights from the most vulnerable groups in Denmark. In the alternative, we agree that people should not be deprived of their democratic rights. As the Institute for Human Rights says, voting rights are often equated with freedom of expression and assembly. Furthermore, the Institute for Human Rights recommends to the government that it examine more thoroughly the range of international conventions which they believe may affect this proposal to see if there should be potential breaches. So in the alternative, we also see the right to vote as a fundamental democratic right, and we do not want to make people democracyless and put them in a democratic vacuum, because they are either on residence or sentenced to expulsion.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504132608	Thank you, sir. Torsten Gejl. And we move on quickly to Mr. Andreas Steenberg as rapporteur on the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504132616	In the Radical Left, we have discussed this bill a great deal, and we have also read through the consultation answers many times, and this also applies to the consultation note from the Ministry. Participation in a democracy is, of course, absolutely crucial for all people living in a society. We think it is okay that people who are not legally resident in Denmark cannot vote in our elections. But if you read the consultation answers, you can see that it is precisely questioned whether this law removes the right to vote from some people who are actually legally resident in Denmark. It blows a bit in the wind how the law really is; at least there is disagreement between the Ministry and some of the hearing answers. Similarly, in some of the hearings, questions are raised as to whether this bill is compatible with human rights. Nor do we think that there is any proper clarification in the consultation note. That is why we simply think that it is too unprepared and that there are too many questions that are not answered, and these are questions of some very fundamental and important things. Therefore, we cannot support the legislative proposal and we must find out whether we should vote yellow because we think there is a lack of information or whether we will vote against it. We'll find out. At least we can't support the bill. It seems premature, and this is also seen in the reply from the National Police, where they say that they think it will be difficult for them to find out who will then have deprived the right to vote, because it is the police who hold the data. They are in doubt as to whether they can achieve it, and this shows that this will be rushed through in order to be tough on immigrants again. It may be that a little more time should have been devoted to resolving some of these issues; at least if you want radical support. So we don't support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504132816	Thank you very much, sir. Andreas Steenberg. There are no brief comments and I would like to welcome Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen as rapporteur for the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504132825	Thank you, President. In the SF, we can easily understand the moral considerations in relation to this bill. We also understand the desire to deprive citizens of their democratic right to vote. But for SF, it is important that we in Denmark can continue to boast of being a democracy, and the right to vote is closely linked to freedom of expression, which we value very much. Denmark has the right to vote in local and regional councils when you are 18 years old and if you do not have Danish citizenship and have had a continuous residence in the municipality in question for the last 3 years. A foreigner on toiled residence, a expelled foreigner or administratively expelled foreigner in Denmark is in Denmark because he cannot be returned because the country of origin is uncertain. It may be because of torture or persecution or other, and the person concerned will therefore remain in Denmark until the return is safe. They are therefore also legally resident in Denmark, contrary to what the Ministry points out. You have a social security number as long as you are in Denmark and thus you also retain your right to vote. Some foreigners on tolerated residence, expelled foreigners and administratively expelled foreigners are, indeed, undesirable in Denmark because they have committed crime in Denmark. In Denmark, criminals were granted and sentenced to vote in 1915. That was over a hundred years ago, and should we now deprive criminals of their right to vote, as they were then? In that case, there must be a really good reason. The abolition of the electoral right of foreigners who have been held liable, expelled foreigners and administratively expelled foreigners would seem to be a breach of the United Nations Convention on Civil and Political Rights ratified by Denmark in 1968, and the European Convention on Human Rights was incorporated into Danish law in 1992. In SF we therefore value human rights and democracy. We want a detailed analysis of the access to restricting the right to vote for foreigners on tolerated residences, expelled aliens and administratively expelled aliens, as envisaged in the proposal, and this is in the light of Denmark's human rights obligations under national and EU law. Only when we have an analysis of it will we be able to take a real position on the proposal. In fact, I share the view of the Radicals that this proposal is very badly prepared. Until then, we intend to vote against.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504133114	Thank you to the rapporteur. And since the Conservative rapporteur is not present, it is now the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504133128	I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their comments. I am, of course, particularly pleased with the rapporteurs from the governing parties, the Danish People's Party and the Social Democrats, whom I understand will support this bill. I will come back to the other rapporteurs later. The reason for the bill is that foreigners are staying in Denmark, whose presence is not wanted by the Danish state. It is a question of abolishing the right to vote in local and regional councils for these four groups, and that is as follows: firstly, foreigners who are on the verge of residence. Secondly, foreigners who have been expelled by judgment. Thirdly, administratively, foreigners and, fourthly, international war criminals who are in Danish prison serving a sentence from an international criminal court. They are therefore foreigners, most of whom have been guilty of serious circumstances, and where it is not intended that they should be part of Danish society, but rather that they should go home as soon as possible. The government is, of course, working to ensure that as many of these foreigners as possible are returned. However, those who are for various reasons cannot be sent home here and now should of course not have access to vote in Denmark. I am therefore pleased with the broad support that has been given here today. However, four parties, namely the Enhedslisten, the Alternative, the Radical Left and the SF, have shown a rare concern for the people who are not wanted in Denmark. It is with great surprise that I see the care in relation to the fact that in Denmark these undesirable people still have to have the right to vote for our municipal and regional councils. But it's a political choice. It has been mentioned that there has been criticism, or at least a question mark, by the Institute for Human Rights, in relation to what is happening here in relation to our international commitments. That is why I think it is important not only to note the response to the consultation given, but also to the commentary on the consultation note, which has been sent with the bill, so that the members of the Folketing have had the opportunity to prepare themselves. In this case, you can, among other things, do something about it. read that Article 6 of the European Convention on the political participation of foreigners at local level requires that they be legally and habitually resident. And this isn't a legal and usual stay for this group. In relation to EU citizens, it is also worth keeping in mind that, in the case of EU citizens who, by final judgment or administrative decision, do not have a basis for residence because they have violated rules in this country, they are not considered to have a European Union right of residence. So we have, of course, done the review that the four rapporteurs are calling for. We have made it, and we have asked over in the Ministry of Justice, and we have received clear answers in relation to Denmark's human rights obligations. So the only political question remains, is whether you want to give deportees, people who have been tolerated and people who have been convicted in an international war criminal court, the opportunity to vote in municipal and regional elections, yes or no? We have local and regional elections here in November, and I would say that it is timely to take this decision now so that it can take effect in relation to the municipal and regional elections this year. In fact, I think I could reasonably be accused as Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior of not doing my job properly if I had not put forward this bill, since I am aware of the problem. So I think it's a duty to adopt this bill and that it's actually a loving duty to implement this bill, because it's obviously a bad idea that these people can vote in Denmark when the Danish state doesn't want them to stay here. Then you can have all kinds of wishes about who should be allowed to stay in the country. I think it was sir. Finn Sørensen, who raised the question, i.e. whether you might say that some of these people might be allowed to stay here. But I still think that's a different matter. This is a little like having the view that you do not think anything should be done about prison escapes, if these are crimes which, incidentally, you do not think should be punishable or where you think the penalty should be lower. However, there is no logic in a state governed by the rule of law that one's political views with regard to who should be included should have an impact on whether or not one supports the sanction. I would like to say that I am glad that there is a majority, and although I have perhaps also gone a little to some of the rapporteurs here now, I will spend the next few weeks luring and sucking and doing anything to make the last four parties realise that they should not support, that people who do not have a legitimate reason to be in Denmark should have the right to vote in our municipal and regional councils.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504133749	Thank you, Minister. There are a few brief comments. Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504133755	Thank you. I think that the Minister is quite full of his mouth when he gives great care to the criminals of the SF, when we correctly refer to human rights and our respect for them, and in this connection points out that the Institute for Human Rights does not actually share the Minister's view of when a citizen still has the right to regard himself as a citizen of Denmark and when he does not. I could only ask the Minister if it would be expected that the information available to the Minister in this connection will also be sent to the committee and that can be considered.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504133837	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504133838	They already are. They've been sent out, exactly the same information, so there shouldn't be a problem there. Secondly, I would just like to say that it was the rapporteur and not me who mentioned that criminals had been granted voting rights in Denmark in 1915 and that it was now, I understand, rather awful if they were to be deprived of it again. That is why I just mentioned what I did. It was the questioner here who inspired me to take it up in my speech. What we are talking about is not Danish citizens. Danish citizens have the right to vote in all elections. The people we are talking about here do not have the right to vote today in parliamentary elections. We know that. What we are talking about is: should the people who are unwanted by the Danish state in Denmark be able to vote for local and regional councils? That's the question. The government's answer is no. Some people then talked about there being a care for the criminals' ability to do so, and that's why I replicated on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504133947	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504133948	But does the Minister not recognise that the Institute for Human Rights, in their reply to the hearing, states that it does not share the Minister's view of when a deported criminal citizen can be regarded as Danish and with the right to vote or to apologise, of course not Danish, but is regarded as a citizen who has the right to vote and when he does not? There is simply a difference between what the Institute of Human Rights assesses and what the Minister is assessing from the platform right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504134020	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504134021	I really appreciate the hearing answers that have come to the hearing answers that have come from the Institute for Human Rights. But we've been replicating that hearing response. And it is a pity if the assessment we have made in the Ministry of Justice in relation to the consequences of human rights, precisely because we take the hearing of the Institute for Human Rights seriously, is completely off the questioner. That's what annoys me a little. I think the questioner is assured that the concerns we have had do not need to have, and we can vote in favour of the proposal with peace of mind and deprive the people who are undesirable in Denmark of the right to vote in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504134104	Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504134106	Thank you. But I am looking forward to the further debate and will, I think, also contribute some questions so that we can get the Minister to explain a key issue in this matter. But first of all I have to say that perhaps this is a little tighter, or at least one can say that it is a one-sided version of the position of the four parties that it is the care of criminals to whom we have taken a stand should not be here in the country we, in the goose-eyes, understood as the Folketing and the government. Has it occurred to the Minister that in all four speeches it was about caring for democracy, caring for Denmark's international obligations? That is my first question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504134152	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504134153	But I do not think that is what was expressed in all four speeches alone. I think I have just explained this to the SF rapporteur, and if I am going to do so to the Enhedslisten's own rapporteur, that is to say the questioner himself, I would say to Mr. Finn Sørensen, that is where I thought there was a special concern for some of them during a toiled stay, which may be for various reasons. And there I thought it was a surprising concern, as Mr. Finn Sørensen had the right to vote in relation to that particular group of people.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504134222	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504134223	I do not understand why there can be anything surprising in this, because the Minister is well aware that Enhedslisten is very, very disagreeable with the austerity that has happened exactly in this area in relation to telling people that they must not be here anymore. So there can be nothing surprising about that. But I would like to ask the Minister about this legal residence, because that is one of the concerns that must be taken into account when deciding whether to deprive these people of a democratic right. The Minister will agree that they are legally resident in this country. Yes, they have been told that they are going out of the country, but for many reasons it is impossible to implement that decision, so they are staying here legally under Denmark's international obligations.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504134314	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504134314-2	However, I think that the question misses me, because what is also in the hearing answer is that they cannot be assumed to have a lawful and normal stay in Denmark, as required for the right to vote and to stand as a candidate under Article 6 of the European Convention on the Political Participation of Aliens at Local level. That's what I said. Having said that, I shall go back to the first. For me, it is about whether Denmark is a community governed by law. We can, of course, disagree on what it takes to get a stay in Denmark, what it takes to be expelled, what it takes to get a happy stay. But in relation to people who are unwanted by the Danish state, adopted by the Danish people's vote in the Danish Parliament, one cannot sit and say that there are some that I think it is, and there are some that Mr. Finn Sørensen thinks so and so, and then we have to treat them according to what we think, and not according to what the legal basis is. That is what I think is the wrong approach from the Enhedslisten side, and that is why I thought it was an inconvenient care.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504134416	Thank you. No one else has asked to speak and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs, Internal Affairs and the Committee on Children's Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504134429	The debate is open. Sir. Malte Larsen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504134443	I'm trying for the third time today. As our rapporteur cannot be present in the Chamber, I have to read the rapporteur's speech. Back in 2012, the former government, the SRSF government, made and launched the first free municipalities attempts. The aim of the experiments was to give nine selected municipalities increased levels of freedom to develop new solutions in the municipal sector. Therefore, exemption from existing legislation was granted in order to allow for a new approach to the task. Thus the free municipalities could think new and help to point out and remove unnecessary bureaucracy. This is the right way to go if you want to debureaucratise and simplify rules in the public sector. This is the right way to go if you want to remove procedural requirements and show greater confidence in our public employees. The Social Democratic Party will. The government is now proposing the next generation of free municipalities in the period 2016-2020 or rather free municipalities networks. The fact is that 44 municipalities have joined up in 8 free municipalities, each working on a relevant issue, among other things. in the social, housing and labour market fields. We support the new free municipalities networks and the provisions behind the proposal, which will exempt free municipalities from a number of selected rules. From the point of view of the Social Democratic Party we have pointed out to the Minister that we would like to extend the proposed period of notice for tenants in a nursing home in the free community network, as the Elders case also points out in their hearing response. We would have liked to have seen in the free community network on low-cost housing the possibility of providing temporary housing support and temporary rental contracts in order to reduce the risk of exposure to tenants. And then we are pleased that the legislative proposal makes it clear about the support for vulnerable children and young people that the child and parents cannot, but must be involved in the process of regulatory simplifications that are planned. On the socialist side, we will be following the new free municipalities' attempts closely with the hope that they will show positive results so that they can eventually lead to regulatory simplification and debureaucraticisation of the public sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504134705	There is a brief comment. Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504134710	Thank you. I don't really understand why you can use the word "simplification" when you read this bill. It is true that some rules are being put out of effect or allowed to be put into effect by the municipalities, unfortunately rules which often relate to the legal certainty of the citizens, and we are very concerned about this, but at the same time they write long paragraphs and provisions about what the municipalities should do. So there's no regulatory simplification in it. What I would like to hear is: are there any of these tests that the rapporteur considers to be very questionable? I would like to ask the rapporteur for a concrete attempt, but I would also like to know if there are others. This is the proposal for buying-in services, which is clearly an attempt to introduce user charges for welfare services. Does the rapporteur think this is a good idea? If not, are there any other tests that the rapporteur is concerned about or critical of?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504134802	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504134806	I have nothing to put off on the legislative proposal at the moment, and of course I will listen to the things that might come in the process and allow it to be included in the further discussion of matters with the original rapporteur in this area. But I do not understand that we have any objections to the proposal as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504134824	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504134826	Thank you. I have to say that I am well aware that the rapporteur is a deputy rapporteur, and that is why, of course, I also have to control my temper a little bit. I just think that this issue of buying-in services is one of many other things we are concerned about, and I shall go into that in more detail. So I would just like to hope that the rapporteur will at least take that discussion home with me, and if I can be so vain and hope that the rapporteur listens carefully to my rapporteur's speech and takes those views home and discusses with his colleague and hopefully arrives at a very bad idea to allow these purchases, I would be very happy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504134904	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504134906	In any case, there is no doubt that we are listening to the other speakers who may come here this afternoon.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504134911	Thank you to the rapporteur. It is always good to control your temper, but I just have to make it clear that when you are rapporteur, you are the rapporteur for your party, so you can easily let the debate go. Here you go to Mrs. Susanne Eilersen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504134925	Thank you for that, President. Free community network, round 2. The draft law is intended to launch a new round of free municipalities, and the free municipalities are spreading across a great many subject areas from the area of employment to the residential area, the social and children's area and the area of the elderly. The original idea of the free municipality attempt was to give municipalities the freedom to test new thinking that could facilitate the working of municipalities, but mostly benefit citizens on the basis that the municipalities are closer to the citizens and know what it takes to provide better service to citizens rather than to have rules laid down by Christiansborg. The Danish People's Party will stick to that premise. It is also important to clarify that the free community experiment has a time frame and that time frame must be respected. If one considers that an experiment has had the desired effect both in relation to the municipalities and, above all, for the citizens, then a legislative process must be set in motion in good time which can enter into force on the day of the free community attempt. The eight free municipalities we are discussing today are very different, and some of them may be intrusive to the citizens. It should not be a secret that it has given rise to concerns in the Danish People's Party. It is important for the Danish People's Party that the free municipalities attempt not to overrule citizens' legal certainty and that it will not be a saving exercise, but a different way of providing the same and better service to citizens, while at the same time citizens have the right to complain and that there is also an external evaluation of the free municipalities' attempts that they want to legislate on. We are in favour of the free community approach, but, as I said, we also have some concerns that we must clearly continue to work on in committee, and we look forward to that, but we must say that from the draft that was in progress when the consultation started and then to the legislative proposal that is now before us, a number of changes have already been made, which we are delighted about. We are pleased that something has also been said about the citizens in the purpose clause. We are pleased that the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child has been introduced on the issues of children. We are pleased that there has been a focus on citizen involvement, and then, as I said, we have some things about citizens' legal certainty and external evaluation. But we are positive about the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504135205	Then it's mr. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten, who has a brief comment to make to Mrs Susanne Eilersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504135211	I would like to know whether the rapporteur has any comments on the consultation response that Danske Handicaporganisations have given to this proposal. I read that there is a great deal of concern that the experiments will help undermine the levels of service in a number of areas. And I would like to ask the rapporteur in particular: can the rapporteur not be concerned that the attempt, for example, that has been made in the United Kingdom, has been made in the United Kingdom? Does Section 15 of this bill and Section 85 of the Service Act contribute to undermining the levels of service available in the municipality?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504135250	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504135251	Thank you for the question. This is also one of the points on which the Danish People's Party is concerned and on which we need to ask a few more questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504135304	Sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504135305	What can cause concern is that the Minister of Social Affairs has recently stated that there is a zero level of service available in a number of these areas. We are discussing another draft law that, in connection with social pedagogy accompanying holidays, municipalities can operate with a service level of zero, and yet you can sell escorts to citizens. Can the rapporteur give a clear indication of the following: if a municipality has budgeted that the citizen can never come outside a door for municipal money, can one sell accompanying documents to the citizen concerned, or has one excluded oneself from such sales if one's level of service is zero?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504135351	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504135352	I am aware of the proposal which was also in the Social Affairs Committee, the Committee on the Interior and the Committee on Children's Rights. Now I am the municipal rapporteur and have not sat at the table. That is why, in relation to this committee we are going to have close cooperation with the other rapporteurs, and that is something we are going to take there.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504135410	Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten, a short remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504135412	Thank you. The rapporteur mentions that the rapporteur has a number of concerns. There are also some concerns about the legal certainty of citizens, as Danske Handicaporganisations point out in their hearing response. How does the rapporteur feel about this? After all, it is citizens with a severely impaired capacity, severely weakened citizens who are being deprived of some self-determination here. How does the Danish People's Party feel about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504135444	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504135444-2	That was precisely one of the points I touched on in my rapporteur's speech, namely that we must ensure the legal certainty of the citizen. That is why it is one of the things that will come up in committee, because that is one of the points we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504135457	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504135458	I am glad to hear that, but is it eager to protect citizens' legal certainty so far that the Danish People's Party will help us to table some amendments to remove the attempts to restrict citizens' legal certainty?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504135515	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504135515-2	We are always open to discussion in committee, and then I can be presented with an amendment, and then I can take a position on it. I do not want to stand here in the Chair at first reading and nod yes for us to be included in some amendments.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504135534	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then the next rapporteur is Mr. Carl Holst, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504135543	Thank you for that, President. Like the two previous rapporteurs, the Left supports the draft law on free community networks. It is important for me to stress that, for the Left, it is important that this is not interpreted and implemented and used to create service degradation, that it is not interpreted and abused for purely austerity exercises, and that it is not seen by the citizens who will be included in the free community network attempt as an attempt by the public authorities to compromise the legal certainty of the citizen. For the Left, this is an expression of the recognition that all legislation that is done centrally will be uniform for all citizens. But sometimes, then, there are solutions municipal in line with local self-government, without blocking the first three things I mentioned. Without blocking the situation, one can sometimes imagine, on the basis of confidence in local self-government, that out there you can test things that can subsequently be beneficial. We do not know, because if we had known, we could simply adopt it. Now let's give it a try. That is why there are trials, there are timetables, there are evaluations and there is due regard for the fact that if and if the evaluations are favourable, it can be implemented in a legislative way, so that it benefits everyone. Against this background, the Left supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504135800	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504135803	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. Yes, it sounds very good that it should not lead to a deterioration or a restriction on the legal certainty of the citizen and that it should not lead to a saving exercise. But now there are consultation answers from Danske Handicaporganisations and from the Elders Case and others who clearly say that this is probably what will happen. Why do you have to open up such trials?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504135833	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504135834	I read the hearings there that they point out that there is a fear that this will happen. I also read them a little as a recognition that this is the experience of the organisations, namely that they are already seeing the service law and other things being interpreted in such a way that savings are saved, and that is, of course, whether there are free municipalities or not. But I also read that one would like the Service Act to be implemented in a way that would allow for a little more flexibility and individual consideration. If the free community attempts can promote this, I do not think it would be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504135925	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504135927	Thank you. However, the rapporteur must admit that, for example, when it comes to forced relocation, I will use that word; that is not what the draft law says, but it is my view of people with a severe disability, without consent being given, that this is a clear deterioration in the rights of the citizen concerned. Why should any attempt be made to do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504135952	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504135956	Because we just don't call it forced relocation. It was an expression, sir. Finn Sørensen used why it would be a bit of a strawman if I agreed to the premise. I think I tried to stress to the best of my ability that we do not compromise on legal certainty. It would, of course, be a breach of it if it had been carried out in the manner expressed by the author.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504140024	Then it's mr. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504140030	I have the impression that the rapporteur and I do not have exactly the same view of user charges in general, but I would like to hear whether the rapporteur can be concerned about introducing user charges in an area which includes citizens with very strong functional reductions, who are notoriously having a very difficult time communicating, and whether this is not a problem when the bill says: "Each citizen who makes use of the services provided must agree to the volume and price of the purchase. The purchase must be made on the citizen's own initiative. Can the rapporteur not try to clarify whether this can be applied to citizens who are not themselves immediately able to communicate with the seller of this benefit?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504140124	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504140128	I'm quite sure you can. Because I insist on what it says and not on the interpretation of the text by the author. What the questioner calls user fees, I call buying. This means giving the individual the opportunity and the right to purchase further, but not at the expense of what the Services Act states is entitled to.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504140154	Sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504140158	Yes, that is what I may have a concern about whether you are able to enforce in the municipalities. But I would also like to ask another provision, which is also in section 15, which reads: "The municipal council may not... charge a lower price than the cost of organising and providing the purchase services can justify. This means that the citizen with a severe disability has to pay something more for exactly the same benefit as the person with a less severe disability. I mean, you have to, for example. out of the house and in need of two companions, it will be twice as expensive for the citizen who has a significant disability. Is it not quite wrong that citizens, with the greatest reductions in function, should also be able to pay the highest price?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504140252	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504140257	Thank you. The questioner started by expressing a concern. That's fair enough. However, the concern should not be present when I emphasise just now that it is not the aim of the citizens to see that it leads to a deterioration in services. In relation to purchases, it has been hoped that the purchase was made something you could choose on top of what you were entitled to under the Service Act. Some will and some will not, but the opportunity must be given to the individual. Why should all citizens be put in a box and say that this is the service they receive if there are some who, through their free choice, want to adjust the service with purchase on top of what they are entitled to? In fact, I believe that citizens, even if they are covered by the Services Act, benefit from being able to meet any individual wish they may have.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504140359	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the next rapporteur, and that is Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504140411	Thank you. We are very dissatisfied with the fact that attempts at free municipalities of a variety of kinds are being piled up in the same draft law, which spans several very different legal complexes. The proposal should be split up so that each element is dealt with separately, so that the parties have an opportunity to support the attempts with which they agree in principle and vote against the attempts with which they disagree. We have said this every time we deal with these mass weddings of free municipalities, but there has not been any consultation in the past, even by the previous government, and I have my doubts as to whether there will be this time. This will only have the consequence of voting against the draft law, as it contains a number of attempts which we disagree with in principle. There are also positive measures. If we look at that page, we think it is good to offer microloans for setting up our own business to selected unemployed people with skills and motivation for entrepreneurship. We have, for example. The Commission has already supported an independent legislative proposal on the same subject. It is also quite right to try out new ways of clarifying the situation of the child, the young person and the family, for setting objectives and objectives for action and follow-up in individual cases. The same applies to the possibility of derogating from the rules on a separate plan of support for parents during the placement of a child, but provided that the plan is instead part of a coherent plan for parents. It smells a bit of holistic processing, and it's an old proposal from Enhedslisten, so we like that. On the negative side, there are a number of totally unacceptable proposals. In the area of children, as I said, it is fine to try to gear the system better to some holistic procedure, but we are very, very concerned about the derogation of section 50 studies in the light of the many scandals of child failure that we have seen in recent years. So we cannot support that part. We are very much opposed to opening the door to the forced relocation of people who have considerable and lasting disabilities without consent. We fully agree with Danske Handicaporganisations' criticism of this point. We are also opposed to weakening the supervision of nursing homes in the Services Act, so that notified supervision can replace unannounced supervision. It is quite unacceptable to introduce the possibility of purchase services for practical assistance and personal care and rehabilitation in connection with disability and purchase benefits in relation to social pedagogy assistance. Buying services are just a fine word for user charges, and it does not belong in a welfare state, which is to ensure that all citizens receive the necessary help regardless of personal economy. At the same time, as the Danish Handicap Federation points out, there is no limit to what services can be purchased within the provisions referred to in the Services Act. After all, it opens a barn door for municipalities to lower quality standards and to speculate that then the citizens who can afford can simply buy the services that have been cut away themselves. We already have the infamous Køgedom from 2012 which said that the municipality could reduce or completely deprive the citizen of practical assistance and personal care solely on the basis of a lowered quality standard, a quality standard that had been lowered as a result of savings requirements in the municipality. It is also wrong to relax the requirement of fairness in company practice for active foreigners. The rules on protection against abuse of internship and wage subsidies are already far too weak, as can be seen, especially in the area of refugees, so that the rules on protection must be tightened, not weakened. It is also unacceptable to prolong the current experiments in the field of employment according to the consultation responses of the LO and DA. We fully agree with the LO that there is no need to extend the experiment with a higher hourly limit for voluntary unpaid work. Moreover, we see no reason for the general extension of experiments proposed in several areas of law. An experiment is an experiment, and when the expiry date is exceeded, it will stop unless there is an exceptionally good, objective reason to extend it, and there is no such thing in these cases, because it is almost a rubber stamp. Our conclusion is that several of the attempts threaten the legal certainty of the citizen and their claim to a proper service. These parts of the experiments are clearly driven by austerity considerations, i.e. general economic pressure on the municipalities, so the arrow ultimately points to the majority in this Chamber who has for several years tightened the screw over the economy of the municipalities, and the funny thing is that it is the same majority that will then actually use it as a basis for introducing experiments which both undermine the legal certainty of the citizen and lead to a high risk of general service degradation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504140856	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then we move on to the next rapporteur, sir. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504140908	Thank you. The bill we are discussing is both atypical, I think, and also very interesting. It is atypical in that it embraces a number of different ministerial areas that we have just heard and can actually lead the public administration in a direction that we do not know at all in advance. And then it is interesting because in a way we are allowing for a bottom-up process where freedom to go new ways may end up in completely new ways of running the public sector. It is certainly not always the case that the best use of resources and the most effective solution of tasks is something that is devised in central ministries. Therefore, we think that the thinking behind these free municipalities networks is good, not least when, as is proposed here, we have to come together in networks that are linked to an overall theme, whereby municipalities can inspire each other in order to achieve the best results. This means that we will have much more municipalities. We are up to 44 this time, almost half of our municipalities. In addition, some of the nine former free municipalities can continue, for example in the field of employment, where there is certainly a need for new thinking. The bill here is, of course, heavy, as you see when you read it. Many ministries need to get started, and legal machinery spaces have to be tampered with in a great many important areas. But we think it's done well. The municipalities are very much in the public administration as a whole, and greater freedom also sounds good in liberal ears. I wonder if it would not also be possible to find out about some areas where you get more for less. As I said, we believe that such an attempt must be speeded up and can support the proposal. And next time it won't matter to us that all 98 municipalities are involved.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504141114	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504141122	In the alternative, we are very happy with free municipalities. We are very happy with many different kinds of municipal experiments. It is as if there is not much to be done here in the Folketing to make the dust lighten and make people think that things may be too much, but in the municipalities it is repeatedly shown that the things that may seem a little wild in here can easily be done. Having tested municipal experiments gives a lot of experience and a lot of good tools that we can implement in the legislation. I actually went to this poetry bill with great optimism. For example: We have just been pleased to hear about the experience of a series of free municipalities which have just been extended due to good results in the field of employment by getting unemployed people into work with an individual and handheld effort. That is why we have also looked forward to this legislative procedure on proposals which are, of course, very comprehensive, as other rapporteurs have also explained. Our enthusiasm for the content of some of these new proposals has faded somewhat after we have been given the opportunity to study some of it. Several rapporteurs have already drawn attention to some of the points, but for us in particular, paragraph 3 is about better management of expenditure in the specialized social area over which we are studying. We see it as a way of forcing demented citizens, who have gained a lower level of function, from their homes into other forms of residence. The point about buying-in services, which has been discussed, is that we are also interested in getting rid of the drill a little. What will it mean that citizens can buy benefits in addition to those they are required to receive in the place where they are? As far as I'm concerned, you can buy benefits from your own place of residence. It could be imagined that the staff are now concerned with the provision of benefits. What about the citizens who should have been serviced by that staff? Is it going to be a problem for some citizens to get benefits from the current staff because other citizens have bought benefits? And then there's legal certainty. We simply have to drill into such things a lot more before I know whether we should vote yes or no to this. I don't know if this is a technical review. I don't know how to do it. Anyway, we're gonna have to get it drilled out and look at some of these consequences. We respect the fact that this is an attempt. We know, of course, that we must also allow experiments which do not just point our way. However, we simply need to find out whether we are doing experiments that endanger legal certainty, invite cashier thinking or have other built-in problems that are so great that we cannot vote in favour of the whole free community attempt.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504141429	Thank you. There are no comments. Then it's mr. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504141437	In the Radical Left, we believe that good welfare is when an employee, together with a citizen, finds the good way of teaching, an operation, help in the home, if you have grown older, it is in the context of the meeting between the employee and the citizen that good welfare is created. And that is why we really want to show confidence in both employees and citizens as well as in the community, local democracy in terms of being able to shape some things for ourselves. Because it is not certain that we in here at Christiansborg or in the state know how a good hour's home help should be anywhere. It may well be that we should give a little more space to help you decide with each other locally in a smaller process than this great process we have in here at Christiansborg, in the state. That is why we are very much in favour of free community attempts, because local communities and citizens and organisations in an area are allowed to try to challenge some of the ways in which things are usually done. Because it could be that you could find out that something else was better. Nor are we afraid that we could find out that something could be done cheaper. Therefore, we would really like to support this bill, support the idea of supporting municipal self-government and have some freedom locally to try to develop some new ways of making welfare with each other • locally and not just in here from Christiansborg. So we support the bill as a whole. We have the one wish that we think the government could allow a municipality to experiment on several different themes, as it is now called, and not just on one theme. We do not think there is any reason why a municipality should only do something in the field of employment or another theme, but that it should not be done in several places. Why not let the municipality do that? Then we also think it might be rewarding if we tried to look at the experiences of the previous free municipalities and perhaps start to see if there is actually any of the good idea that we introduced, which we did more in Denmark as a whole. We also think that a process could be set in motion. But we support the bill. We think it makes sense to let these municipalities do experiments. The debate talks about it as if all the municipalities were allowed to do this permanently. No, it's an experiment where you just have to see what the effect is. And it is also a response to some of the critical consultation responses that have been, so that now we have to see what the effect will be, and then we have to decide whether we think it is a good idea to make it permanent. We support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504141735	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504141739	Well, there is no one in this Chamber who as such is opposed to an attempt being made. There are just some, at least Enhedslisten, who draw a line when it comes to reducing legal certainty for citizens and weakening legal requirements that citizens have today, for example. That is what happens if you are demented or have a strong disability, without consent being given. But it is just one of the experiments that are being played with here, to which it must be said quite clearly, as Danske Handicap organisations also point out, that this is where there is a deterioration in the legal certainty of the citizen. Why is there reason to experiment with it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504141829	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504141833	Now I have not spoken to the municipality in question, but I assume that the reason why they want to try it is that they think it might be possible that the demented person would feel better about it, and what we need to find out is whether the municipality is right about it or whether it is, as Mr. Finn Sørensen says. If that's the way it is, sir. Finn Sørensen says, and as the hearing answer also says, I am not interested in it either, but I trust that the municipality believes that it could be an improvement for the citizen concerned, and that is what I assume the municipality would like to investigate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504141905	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504141909	Thank you. When we vote on a legislative proposal in this Chamber, even if it only applies to a limited number of municipalities, it is not the ideas of the individual municipality that we are voting on, it is whether we should go in and take a very intrusive measure against some citizens and in a right that citizens have today. This is just one example. There's more in this bill. That is what we are voting on and for which we, as parties, must take political responsibility and help to reduce legal certainty for a group of citizens. I simply do not understand why we should do experiments on this kind of thing. It's citizens' lives we're experimenting with here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504141948	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504141951	As far as the Radical Left is concerned, and as far as I am concerned, the municipalities that are going to have to do exactly the same attempt, it is because they want to check whether it is really going to be better for the citizen. Could it be an advantage for a demented citizen to get to a safer home? That's what we need to find out. Sir. Finn Sørensen makes it sound like you're playing with the citizens, like it was some chess pieces. No, it's because you're going to try to see if something else could be better, and we think it's wise to try to find out, and that's what we should do by supporting this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504142024	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504142032	In SF we are basically involved in free municipality experiments. We simply believe that the municipalities and local democracy are often smarter at a lot of local conditions than we are here at Christiansborg and I should like to say that I have had that view myself most of my life, and I would like to hold on to it, even while I am at Christiansborg. When things are going well, I believe that it can strengthen and extend local self-government and that it can also help to develop and debureaucratise. And we all really want to do that. We believe that this is for the benefit of the citizens and we believe it is for the benefit of the staff of the municipalities. That is why we shall also be constructive in the further examination of the proposal by the Committee on Budgets. I'm kind of sharing sir. Finn Sørensen's criticism that some of these proposals are making a pile wedding. It would have been very good if it had been the case that the respective rapporteurs in the areas concerned had also had more opportunity to be involved in the work on the proposal. We have also attached ourselves to a number of the consultation answers, in which among others. BUPL, LOS and the Institute for Human Rights express concern at, among others, the following: The children's area. We also have doubts as to whether the planned initiatives take sufficient account of the child's best interests, as highlighted in the Children's Convention: will children be involved in time in the search for possible placements? Is it wise to waive the requirement for a separate plan of support for parents of children placed in care? The children typically have to go back to their parents, who may have major social problems to contend with. We also need to identify the rules that will apply in the municipalities that will be able to cancel leases when the municipality believes that the exposed citizen no longer needs the accommodation. It must also be the case, as the Council of Social Affairs Ministers also states, that social considerations and considerations of the citizen's legal certainty are not disregarded in the interests of the administration of expenditure by the municipalities. Video surveillance of a home is a strong interference in the lives of a exposed citizen, and therefore the rules should also be considered very carefully. And as the Ankestyrelsen points out, it should be described in detail how the right to complain about this intervention is guaranteed if a citizen does not have relatives. In conclusion, I would like to mention that we in the SF are actually pleased that there is further work to be done on the possibility of purchasing services in the care of the elderly so that we can have greater equality between private and public providers in the care of the elderly, knowing that there is also a legitimate one, I think, fear that it could also become a slippery path. But we also see today unequal competition, which the FOA has pointed out up to several times. And then we should not hide the fact that we are satisfied that the municipalities will have increased opportunities to experiment with microloans in the field of employment. I still think that this proposal might need a round of discussions in committee, and I also hope that we will have the opportunity to discuss some of these issues before we finally have to take a position on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504142355	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504142400	Thank you, and thank you, for the rapporteur's specific approach to the various parts. This is the discussion we need: what kind of tests can one find reasonable in, and which one perceives to be harmful or can be harmful, so thank you for that. I have to say that I do not understand it because, as the legal situation is in this area, the municipality can, in principle, turn the quality standard down to 0 or 0.2, and then citizens can buy the rest themselves. I mean, unfortunately, that's how the legislation is screwed up. Then the rapporteur would not like to comment on it. And that's what's gonna open up, 'cause it's gonna work. I am not saying that this is happening everywhere, but I am just saying that this is how the legislation is put together. I would like to make a comment on that. The second question is: are there any attempts which the rapporteur's party would absolutely like removed from the list as a condition for voting in favour of the bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504142453	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504142458	Thank you. As far as buying services are concerned, I note that it is very clear that they must not replace the services to which citizens are entitled under the Social Services Act or other legislation. I therefore share the rapporteur's concerns as to whether we are getting used to buying so much so that at some point they become something that older people simply accept. I do not think that would necessarily be the right way to go. Conversely, I also note that purchases are being used to a very large extent in the care of the elderly in private companies in addition to the municipal service, and I think it is actually very good that the municipalities have the same opportunities to offer window cleaning, or whatever it may be, so at least that is not the reason why citizens may feel compelled to choose a private company. I think my speaking time runs out, I can see, and I always get so stressed when the clock shows it but if I have to answer the second question quickly, I think in and for say that the municipalities are making a lot of effort right now to show how well it can work when you get a local influence. I hope that this is what the municipalities are using the experiments for, and I am glad that we will have the opportunity to evaluate it later.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504142612	Thank you. Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504142615	Thank you. I think that is the way it is, and the rapporteur has to correct me that none of these attempts are to be tampered with, the rapporteur is voting in favour of the draft law as it stands. And then, with regard to the purchase services: well, it is true that it says that they must not replace the services visited by citizens, but, as I have just pointed out, and as others have also pointed out, the municipality can turn the quality standard down to any low point and then leave it to the citizen to buy the services that are lacking. Unfortunately, it is the case that the legislation is. And I simply do not understand why the Socialist People's Party can support experimenting with such a thing. I just don't.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504142658	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504142701	In fact, I think that when we look at the area of the elderly in isolation, the legislation offers a very wide range of opportunities for the municipalities to experiment a great deal already, and I believe that the levels of service in the respective municipalities are very, very different. Nevertheless, I do not support the fact that this is how we should set the overall standards. In fact, I believe that standards are best made in cooperation with the citizens who are in the municipalities and the municipal politicians. So I understand the rapporteur's concern, which I can easily share, while also paying tribute to the confidence that the employees and local politicians have just as good intentions for a good life for the citizens as I think we have here at Christiansborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504142744	Thank you. Then it's mr. Carl Holst, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504142751	I am very pleased with what the rapporteur says about the confidence that ideas can grow from the bottom up in the municipalities. I also very much agree with what the rapporteur says about the possibility that something might arise that is not known and that sometimes it is not in the Assembly Chamber, but out in the individual municipalities ideas arise. At the same time, the rapporteur expresses his concern and is commended to the rapporteur by Finn Sørensen. I would ask the rapporteur to reflect on the following: can we both say: we believe in you, come up with your ideas and at the same time express what we do not believe in advance?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504142837	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504142840	One can easily choose and have confidence and at the same time be concerned when one knows that the municipalities are under pressure on their budgets and may sometimes have to choose some unfortunate solutions, such as myself. believes that this was the case in Favrskov compared to the disabled up there. I can therefore also understand the reaction of the disabled citizens in Favrskov. So, yes, the economy can be the reason for making decisions that are not necessarily the best for citizens. But I still believe things grow best out there where the tasks have to be solved.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504142922	I would like to thank the rapporteur, and that is the last rapporteur, Mr President. Anders Johansson, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504142931	Thank you. The aim of the bill is to allow municipalities organised in a free community network to carry out experiments until the end of 2021 in order to contribute to a better task solution for the benefit of citizens through efficiency improvements, regulatory simplifications and better governance in municipalities. This is something we in the Conservatives are very positive about. In fact, we actually have a duty to see all the time how we can do things the best and most effectively, and how we get as much as possible for our tax dollars as we charge from the Danes to the community. Therefore, we also think it is a very good idea for us to do these free municipalities, where we give some municipalities the opportunity to find new solutions from which other municipalities can learn. This is the way we can be better at solving the problems. I am also one of those who believe in municipal autonomy and believe in the fact that the municipalities and municipal councils have only one interest, and that is the same interest that we have, namely to provide the best possible service to their citizens for the resources available. Therefore, I also have great confidence that local freedom in the task delivery is a good thing, which could challenge some of the ways we are doing things today, so that we can think new and thereby improve the public service. That is why the Conservative People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504143059	Thank you. Then it's the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504143105	Thank you very much for the debate. I would like to sign for what I think has been a very constructive debate on the bill here. It is, of course, perfectly justified that there may be a lot of different questions and possible concerns about individual parts, because it is a very comprehensive legislative proposal that sets in motion a large number of attempts in the area of free municipalities. On the whole, I think it is important to say that the free community idea itself is indeed very good and very important because it allows us to let creativity come into play; that we can ensure that we try out some other ways of solving problems in geographically limited areas, i.e. in these free municipalities networks. It is, of course, based on the idea that all good ideas are not born in this house, and I think that is actually a very sound thinking for us who are members of this House. It might be that there were some places around the country where they had found a better way to do it. Sometimes it can also be the case that you think that something sounds like a good idea, but that it might be very nice to have it tested first before we simply pass it as legislation here, because we are not quite sure of the consequences it will have if we adopt it as a legislative amendment. It is, after all, a place where free municipalities have a strong justification. I am listening to the concerns expressed, and I would like to say that I am interested in engaging in dialogue with the parties of the Folketing on the issues that are and on the concerns that may be in various areas. It is clear that we need to have a certain precautionary principle, I think, when we go to it, because we also have to respect that the experiments are not necessarily something that is born in the individual party's own universe of thought. If you get really hard on the blade, you can probably also see that there are proposals in it which I basically think are a really bad idea. Then I can hope in my quiet mind that the attempts that I think seem to be a bad idea will also prove to be a bad idea and that everyone will see that it is a bad idea once we have achieved it. That's one thing. It may also be the opposite, that is, that I am surprised and that my prejudices must fall, and that I must say, "Oh, my God, that was a very good idea; let us do so. Although I have spent 10, 15 or 20 years fighting the idea in question, it may well be that it will have a different effect when testing it in reality. So I think that what is important is that we remember one another here in the Folketing that that is the idea. There have been a number of concerns. In particular, concerns have been expressed about the legal certainty of citizens, and I am very open to going in and seeing if there is anything we can do about it, because the legal certainty of citizens is very dear to me. I hope that is also widely known. This has been the case since I was not part of the government, and it is, of course, the case when I am a minister. So I think we should go into the things that are being mentioned and I am prepared to engage in a dialogue with all the rapporteurs on how we might be able to accommodate things. Of course, I may not be able to accommodate everything, and so it must be, but I have a sincere interest in getting this as well and broadly based as possible, so that the municipalities can also have a guarantee that there is a proper basis on which Christiansborg can initiate these experiments. So with that I hope for a good and constructive discussion of the proposal, including in committee, and I am available for any questions that may be.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504143528	Thank you. There is a brief comment to be made to the Minister by Mr Beyer de Ryke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats on behalf of the
ParlaMint-DK_20170504143531	Thank you very much to the Minister, also for the outstretched hand, which I think lies in it. What I would like to know, before we embark on the work of a community, is whether the Minister's desire to create a broad assembly on the experiments goes so far, so that the Minister is also willing to split up the bill if one or more parties come along and say that this is so in principle for us, so we will be allowed to vote on it separately, in the hope that we can obtain a majority against it, but if we cannot, we are not at least forced to buy a bad proposal just to get some good proposals through. So that is what I would like to hear if the Minister is open to, namely that we can get into a process in which the parties have the opportunity to say that concrete points in this we would like to get rid of the bill, so that is a separate position.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504143631	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504143632	Now the electorate has put together the Folketing so fortunately, so there are nine different parties, and it can of course be imagined that it can be very violent if a number of parties are to have one, two, three proposals that they have to get out, and then this suddenly becomes a lot of legislative proposals. What I want to say is that I would like to have a dialogue with Mr. Finn Sørensen about what is really Enhedslisten's concerns and wishes, and then we have to take it from there. I do not think that we should conclude in advance, but I think that we should take a meeting and then have an open dialogue on what is going on.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504143708	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504143710	Thank you, then, for looking forward to and hoping that we can find a solution there so that Enhedslisten can also be on board those points where we think it is sensible to start experiments. I think the Minister heard in my speech that there are actually a number where we think it is sensible, even if we are not particularly enthusiastic about them as a starting point. Where we draw the line, and I think that is clear, is, of course, if we restrict the legal certainty of citizens and certain rights they have today, which have been incorporated into the legislation, because at some point here in the Folketing we thought we would like to give the citizens those rights, and it is of course questionable if we want to cut them. So we'll see how far that goes. I hope that it will be sufficient for us to be able to separate it from those points where it is important for individual parties. So just such a slightly more fundamental question: why not? Surely it cannot be the number of legislative proposals that are crucial. This is probably what to say about the quality of the treatment and an effort to obtain as much as possible a majority around the individual proposals. That must be what drives the work and not whether it is a lot or a few legislative proposals that we need to go through. Now it's there. It is, of course, technically quite easy to unpick the paragraphs that need to be voted on separately.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504143824	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504143825	In fact, I think it is a little wrong to say that the most important thing must be that there is some basic tribe that the whole parliament is voting in favour of. The most important thing must surely be that we give a broad mandate to the municipalities to be able to initiate the experiments within the free municipalities networks. What must be the important thing is that I think, and that is also what was in my speech, that we each say that it may well be that there is something that we ourselves are not politically in favour of, but we can also try to do that. We need to be open, also so that others other than ourselves can have a point. I would very much like to discuss further with regard to the legal certainty aspect, where I think it is important to make sure that this is okay.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504143915	Thank you to the Minister for today's work. No one else has asked to speak, and that is why the negotiations have been concluded. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs, Internal Affairs and the Committee on Children's Rights. If any of you do not object, it is adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504143939	The debate is open, and I would like to welcome Mr. Orla Sea from the Social Democratic Party, the first rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504144004	The draft law we are discussing here has been tabled in response to a request from the Tax Council, and in this respect it is so much more over in the technical part that we are in the process of drafting the legislation. The reason for this is that the Tax Council has pointed out that there are employees who, in some cases only by acquiring a small part of the employer's business, are considered to be self-employed. And in this way they will benefit from the low company tax, which is currently 22 per cent, even though they are actually employees. Our industry must undoubtedly have the best opportunities for growth, for development and for creating jobs, but we cannot have systems, as in this case the business system, being used for their purposes. So the intention is to ensure that employees employed in a so-called tax transparent company, for example. a partnership or a limited partnership is not regarded as an independent economic operator and obtains a tax advantage simply by acquiring a very small share of the company. We think it is obvious that if existing rules are applied for their purpose, we must ensure that they are put to an end. If there is an unintended use of the rules and a tax idea that is politically opposed, yes, we must take action, as is the case with the proposal here. That is why it is quite appropriate for the proposal to be put forward and, on the part of the Socialist Group, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504144158	Thank you, sir. Orla Sea, there are no brief remarks. So we're moving on to mr. Dennis Flydtkjær from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504144208	After all, many Danes operate through the company scheme, which helps to ensure a low temporary tax, and which has the advantage that you can make an income equalisation over the years. It is, of course, an arrangement which must be for those who are actually operating, and the problem is that there is little doubt about that, at least that is what you want to try to clarify when you are really doing business. Because there has been a case or some cases; in fact I do not know how large the scope has been where you have bought or got a very small share in a company, typically a limited partnership or partnership, and then it raises the question whether you are actually a trader or you are still an employee. That is the definition that is being called into question, and that is what we are trying to find a solution to here. We in the Danish People's Party are, of course, in complete agreement with this issue, because it should not be the case that, if you are actually an employee, you get advantages as if you were a trader. So we think it is quite real that we are trying to find a solution to it. I am just not quite sure that we are hitting precisely in relation to the demarcation proposed here, because I think it is a little alarming that the bill by the Treasury cannot really say for itself what the scope of this bill is. I would like to try to read out a single paragraph from the submission speech: there is no basis for assessing the extent to which current participants in fiscally transparent companies will be affected by the proposal with the effect that they can no longer be regarded as independent traders. As a legislator, I think it is a little alarming that we should take a position on a legislative proposal which we ourselves do not really know the scope of, which means that this is something we need to delve further into in committee work. I fear what the consequence can be, and that is what the Ministry itself does not know and how this puts partners, for example. auditors and others, forward-looking. Of course, the objective is not, and I assume that we will agree that we will stop being partners in a law firm or a pension company and still be self-employed. The aim is, of course, to hit the group where it is such a marginal interest that you get and which makes you in principle still a worker. So I'm a little afraid that this bill is going much wider than what you really want. And I think that is actually very much reflected in the answers to the hearings. So, a sure sign of it is that in this consultation table, which is the short version of the consultation answers, it is abbreviated and summed up with the main issues and which take up 27 pages, you have among other things. This concern. And it probably says very well that there may be some things that in the business world at least create a certain insecurity about how this bill hits the right thing too, when you write in the bill, that you actually don't know it yourself. It would be best if we could clarify this in the committee's work, but a solution could also be to include some of the various stakeholders in the tax department in this area and to have some kind of subcommittee set up to clarify how to do this most appropriately. If we can do this within the time frame in which we are dealing with the legislative proposal, it could be achieved by an amendment to the second reading, possibly for the third reading. But it may also be that we should not rule out the need to postpone it until the autumn. Another proposal could be to set up a tax law council, adopted by a majority, and have them look at a possible solution where, hopefully, we can hit more precisely. So I would like to sum up what the position of the Danish People's Party on this bill is: we agree with the problem, namely that you should not have a very marginal shareholding in a company where you are actually an employee and then get a tax advantage as if you were a trader. That goes without saying. But we're a little worried about what the scope is, or what this bill will mean now, when the Ministry itself says you don't know. I think it is very difficult as a parliamentarian to adopt a legislative proposal that we do not know the scope of.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504144618	Thank you, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær. The next rapporteur is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm from the Left, the Liberal Party of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504144625	Thank you, and thank you for the floor. This bill seeks to change the assessment of what is characterised as a self-employed activity. The legislation is based on a recommendation from a unanimous Tax Council which, on the basis of a specific case, thought that practice was changed and went too far. The government has a strong focus on the fact that the independent entrepreneurs in Denmark have good conditions which allow them to consolidate and thus make greater investments. In this way, they have roughly the same conditions as if the company were operating in a share or equity company. The company scheme established a system to ensure that this is the case. However, it must not be the case that the low company tax regime must be capable of being abused by persons who are not really independent operators. Unfortunately, it has happened that in some cases employees could only take advantage of the advantages of self-employment by acquiring a very small part of the employer's business. We believe that this is a gap and we believe that we should close it. Income from wages must be taxed as wage income, not as income from business and therefore it is proposed that it should be separated more clearly when you have fiscal status as an employee and when you are self-employed. The assessment of whether an activity is self-employed must be made on the basis of a concrete assessment of all factors such as the level of economic risk and the influence on the undertaking. In order to benefit from the tax advantages provided by the corporate scheme, it must not be enough to have only bought a small share of a company. If, on the basis of a specific assessment, one is considered to be an employee, one should not be able to apply the same tax conditions as are calculated for self-employed persons. On behalf of the Left, I have the honour to inform you that the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504144812	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504144819	Thank you. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Left if it is not a little worrying that the speech should be written and I would like to try to read it again: there is no basis for assessing the extent to which current participants in fiscally transparent companies will be affected by the proposal, with the effect that they can no longer be regarded as independent traders. We in the Danish People's Party basically agree that you should not be an employee and be taxed as a trader. However, when you propose a solution in the ministry and you yourself say that you do not really know how many of the current participants are running it as a trader, and rightly so, it is therefore a problem that we need to resolve. I would also like to hear from the Left whether it could be a solution for setting up a committee with people from the Ministry of Taxation, some who understand what they are in trouble with in business, or, as mentioned, perhaps it could be the Tax Council. What do you think of that idea in the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504144908	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504144911	Thank you for the question. After all, the intention is not to hit those who are self-employed. The idea is you have to hit those who are trying to take advantage of the system. So it is certainly not the intention to do so, and if there is a risk, I think that we should follow it up. Because that's not the intention. We are open to looking at what we can do to clarify this more in committee. I think we should look at that. After all, it is now up to the Minister to decide how the draft law is being dealt with, and not me as rapporteur. So I think you should ask the Minister more questions. Basically, however, I think that we must be clear about this. Our intention is not to hit people who are self-employed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504144950	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504144953	It is now the Folketing that decides how a bill should run through the Folketing, and not the Minister. But at least thank you for the indication that we will have a closer look at it. Because if we look at the answers to the hearings and I have also received some other requests, that is to say, directly we can at least see that there is a concern that we do not know how this is going to affect, and I do not hear any opposition in the business world to finding a solution to it because they can see that the problem is real. But if the demarcation is not real and it is feared that things are going much further than what can be seen here, then it is a pretty big problem, and I would also like to acknowledge that the Left is opening up to look at the committee's proceedings.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504145027	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504145030	It is our intention to close a hole and not to close more than that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504145037	There's a comment from Mr. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504145042	It was just before I dropped the comment because I thought we got a fine answer from the rapporteur, but I wonder whether it is not a very rigid piece of legislation for the Left to lay down on it precisely to close this gap, where there seems to be not only a risk, but there is almost a certainty that it is going to hit a very large group of companies who would like to have some partners involved who could contribute in one way or another and who would then be hit by it here, and that you might be able to go the other way, as the Left used to do, in other words, to motivate someone to be independent or partners in a company. Is it not a very rigid piece of legislation that is being proposed in relation to what the Left tends to show?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504145122	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504145125	Actually, I don't think it's rigged. Because it is based on the fact that you make an assessment in the individual cases. It is not a whole lot of square demands that you have to live up to in order to be self-employed. I think that would be rich. So that way, I don't really think it's rich. However, it is not our intention to be affected by legislation if it is that you are really self-employed. It is only the intention to hit what is a hole and an exploitation of the rules we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504145150	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504145153	I fully agree with the intention, and it may be that I have missed it, but is it simply a single assessment of matters that is at the root of it? Because at least I just missed that. I thought it was general legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504145204	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504145207	The way I have understood the bill is that in the various respects you should look at them and look at: Are they really independent traders? Or is this just a way to finance a better salary for your employees?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504145219	Thank you, Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm, and welcome to Mr. Rune Lund from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504145230	I do not know whether I have ever seen myself come up here right after the rapporteur from the Left, and I have to say that I feel well covered by the rapporteur's speech, which the rapporteur from the Left has made, but I can certainly do that in this case. After all, we are dealing with a 2015 ruling where the Tax Council has come to the conclusion that in some cases employees can in some cases simply by acquiring a very small share of the employer's business taxably be considered to be self-employed and thus pay a lower tax. This is a tax hole, and this tax hole is gonna close. A position will be taken and an individual assessment will be made in the individual case, and we feel secure about that. We are, of course, prepared to do so, as Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær has also stated in the debate that some questions may be asked and we can examine whether some things can be clarified and we are, of course, always involved in qualifying the legislative work. But this is about closing a tax hole as there has been, and Enhedslisten can support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504145342	Thank you, sir. Rune Lund. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Leif Mikkelsen of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504145354	Thank you. As our rapporteur does not reach the Parliamentary Chamber because of work elsewhere in this House, it is my job to present the views of the Liberal Alliance on the bill here. This bill will prevent the acquisition of a very small share of a company in which one works from in itself meaning that one's income can be regarded as income from self-employment. Indeed, it should be the case that employees are taxed in a uniform manner, and we should not, of course, be able to postpone our tax through the company scheme by having a very small shareholding. If ownership does not entail a real risk, the corporate tax scheme allows for unreasonable tax planning. This may mean paying less in top tax than a corresponding employee does. However, one must always be careful when making this kind of protection regulations, as in Denmark there are a number of companies with a partnership structure which do not exist for tax reasons. These should be guaranteed secure conditions and, when you look at the consultation answers, you can see that a number of concerns are raised on that front. We believe, however, in the Liberal Alliance that a good balance can be achieved, and that is why we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504145511	Thank you, sir. Leif Mikkelsen and the next rapporteur is Mr Leif Mikkelsen. René Gade, the alternative. There's a whole class of Silkeborg people right here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504145521	Thank you. I would say, then, that I have just sat here and re-evaluated my position on the Alternative Group through the handling of the matter. Because I was actually prepared that in the alternative we would be rather sceptical and then through the committee work should be persuaded to be in favour of the bill. But it may be that it is simply because we have overlooked some elements. For right now I am in fact in favour of us being positive, but I must be assured through the work of the committee. For my initial attitude was that I simply thought it was too rigid. I had the impression that the framework of the legislative proposal, which the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur also pointed out, perhaps just went in and set limits that would be so damaging to some partnership structures and to some companies that could actually benefit from giving their employees some conditions that matched the business regime, because a risk was just taken. It could be that you first received your salary in proportion to the fact that there was a real profit in the company or other circumstances. However, it seems that there is at least a willingness, both from the rapporteur of the Left and from the intentions of the government and also from the Liberal Alliance, to address the challenges I think there were in the context of the consultations, as I have already seen. So we are not going to take a position yet, but I am much more positive now than when I went into the Chamber, and it is indeed gratifying that I have already become wiser.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504145655	Thank you, sir. René Gade. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Andreas Steenberg of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504145703	The business system is basically good because it makes it easy for people who want to start a business to be able to raise some capital because you have to pay tax only when you withdraw dividends from the business you want to build. But it seems that when you read the Tax Council's recommendation, the scheme can therefore be misused so that people who are employees can be taxed more favourably by owning a very small proportion of the company because they can then be regarded as corporate owners. Of course, that is not the intention of the company scheme, and that is why we need to look at whether that gap can be closed. We in the Radical Left think that it seems that the government has put a very targeted patch, or whatever to call it, on the hole there is. That is also what most of the consultations point to, that is to say, what you want to do and what you want to close, and that is not to undermine the company system. Then there was an exchange between the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party and the rapporteur of the Left on a single hearing which might say that it is too much, and there I think the impression was given that this could be discussed in committee work. I think it was a reasonable objection from the Danish People's Party, and I think we should try to look at that together, and that is also how I understood the debate. So we'll have a look at that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504145837	Thank you, sir. Andreas Steenberg, and welcome to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504145846	Thank you. We are discussing here a change in the law of equations. My colleagues have addressed the issue well, that is, that the Tax Council made a decision a few years ago and subsequently approached the Treasury with this concern that there could be a gap in the law. We have several views on the company scheme in the SF, but that is not what we are discussing today, but exactly what it is going to be used for, what its purpose is. And it is precisely that you should not withdraw capital, but that you can use the company scheme to make your business flourish. After all, the idea has never been that one can be a real employee and acquire a minimal share, and that therefore, through the enterprise scheme, no A tax is included and that the top tax payment can be minimized or actually avoided. And that is what there is a real risk of. I think the Minister or the Minister's officials in the comments on the bill have been relatively clear in relation to those cases where it can be said that it is clearly an employee and where it is clear that it is one who can actually use the enterprise scheme and then where there are grey areas. That's what I heard, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær say what's going on there? In fact, I also think that there is a great deal of clarity in the remarks that then you take a holistic view, then you look at: Is there instructional power? How big a share do you have, etc.? And then you take such a holistic view of it before you make a decision. So we're actually pretty calm in the SF. So we can support this. However, I would like to support DF's concern about how widespread this has become in recent years. In the comments to the bill we can also see that there has been a very, very sharp increase in the number of partner companies, i.e. these P/S's, and that can cover up a perfectly natural development, but it can also cover up the development that some have found out that this is a good idea and the same thing with limited companies. And that is why I think we simply need to find out whether there has been an abuse and how extensive it has been. The Minister may be able to answer when he goes to the platform in a moment: is it impossible to find out about this, or is it very expensive? SKAT also has other things to do in these times. In any case, I think that we should have looked at the possibility that it might be examined whether there has been an abuse and how large it has been. But the SF supports the Minister's bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504150145	Thank you to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, and welcome to Mr Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Anders Johansson of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504150152	Thank you. The purpose of the draft law is to amend the law on equations, so that the possibility of applying the company scheme for persons who are actually considered to be employees is cut off for persons who have a very small share in, for example, a limited liability company or another tax-transparent company. The bill can be supported by the Conservative People's Party. For us, it is important that we have reasonable and reasonable conditions for our business, so that it is not the tax rules that prevent small businesses, for example. can save up with the low corporate tax that the company scheme allows, in relation to income tax, if it is therefore a business operation. On the other hand, of course, we also think that it is reasonable that by acquiring a smaller and insignificant share of a company which is tax transparent, without any real commercial risk, it should not be possible to enter into the business system. It must of course be the case that one is actually self-employed and has a real influence on the operation of the company and carries a real financial risk, which one does as a self-employed person before one can make use of the more lucrative business system as a self-employed person. That is what is at the heart of the matter, and that is why we can back the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504150317	Thank you. Then it is my pleasure to welcome the country's treasure minister on the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504150330	I would like to start by thanking you for the receipt of the bill and for the debate it has given rise to. The draft law, as a number of rapporteurs have also mentioned, is an example of the need to find pragmatic solutions when we want to take account of economic operators, while at the same time ensuring that the rules are not watered down or exploited, if you like. The aim of the draft law is to ensure that employees are treated as employees and traders as traders for tax purposes, or quite simply that wages are taxed as wages. The Tax Council has in a call to me from 2015, so it is a while ago, warned against an unfortunate practice which means that employees would be to consider as entrepreneurs by just acquiring a quite small, some would say a microscopic shareholding in the company in which they are employed when, for example, it. is organised as a partnership. It has thus become apparent that, according to the tax practice in force, it is possible, through special company structures, to allow employees to be regarded as self-employed if they are, in fact, not self-employed but employees. Why, then, do some people want to take advantage of that opportunity? This is because employees can use the enterprise system in this way and save their wages for a temporary low tax rate of 22 per cent. instead of paying normal income tax and possibly • I think that will have been the case in many of these cases • top tax on the salary. I have no desire to make it harder for independent traders to run their business, but when a unanimous Tax Council sends what is called an early warning, an early warning, to me as tax minister, I have to find a solution to deal with the problem they point out. In fact, we have spent some time there precisely in order to ensure what some rapporteurs are asking for, namely that this should be a targeted intervention. The Tax Council also asked that it should be a targeted intervention and not something that is too broad, and it has taken some time to make the model that the Danish Parliament is now examining. We have very reasonable and sensible rules in the company system, and it is important to safeguard them and, moreover, to limit them to the fact that only those who are genuine operators can avail themselves of these rules. In fact, the business system allows the self-employed to consolidate and save in the company for this temporary low tax, which we have chosen for the time being to give to people who are self-employed, also because there are risks of being self-employed as opposed to being employed. Thus, the self-employed person is not required to pay full tax on the company's profits until the owner withdraws money. Of course, when you withdraw the money, you have to pay taxes. That goes without saying. And if we are not to undermine the business system, it should be reserved for the real operators. It is only in this way that it can be defended and safeguarded. The draft law should no longer be the sole determining factor for whether one is considered to be self-employed in a partnership, that the income recipient owns a share of the enterprise. This has been the case in the past, i.e. that you owned a share of the company and that it was the only thing you looked at. It is now necessary to look in the future at the specific circumstances in order to assess whether the person concerned is an economic operator, and in particular the extent of the individual's specific risk and influence on businesses. If this assessment results in being considered as an economic operator, the enterprise scheme can be used • it is only fair and fair but if the assessment results in being regarded as an employee, the income of the work must be taxed as wage. This has been criticised by several quarters, and a number of rapporteurs have also mentioned this, among others. The rapporteur of the Danish People's Party states that it is difficult to determine when there is an employee relationship and when there is a self-employed activity. To that I must say that I understand that criticism. I think it is perfectly legitimate to travel, and we must do what we can in committee to address the criticisms which, among other things, have been voiced. Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, for I myself, both as tax minister, as a citizen and as a member of parliament, are in favour of the fact that a law is very clear about what is applicable. Unfortunately, when it is a business activity, it is not clearly defined it is the challenge here but depends on a number of specific circumstances. A very simple rule as to when the only decisive thing is whether you own a share of a company or not, regardless of how small that share of and what the conditions are, with that letter and the early warning, that is, the early warning that I have received from the Tax Council, has proved untenable. I am very happy to listen to other suggestions on how to address this, and we have also been in dialogue in the Treasury with some of those who have sent in hearings to find out if there is another way forward to narrow it down here. At this stage, it turns out to be difficult. That is why, with what is in the draft law, we are proposing, in my opinion, that in the vast majority of cases there will be no doubt as to whether you are an employee or a self-employed person. This is not a new definition, because there is already a very wide-ranging practice through decisions and judgments which deal precisely with the distinction between employees and self-employed persons, and that practice can also be applied because it is as valid as it was before, even after the adoption of the bill. In order to respond to the concerns expressed, the comments on the provision will be expanded so as to specify more clearly the specific proposals to be emphasised, i.e. those described in the draft law. And as I mentioned earlier, this proposal has come on the basis of a warning from a General Tax Council, and it is a warning which I, as Minister of Taxation, find very difficult to ignore. It is so clear to me that, with this bill, we have made an intervention that is as targeted as possible. As I said, it was also a request from the Tax Council. However, in relation to the concern raised by the Danish People's Party, I am of course constructively committed to trying to clarify this in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504151040	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504151045	Thank you. After all, the minister himself says that he got this request in 2015, and now we write mid 2017. What's the reason it's been a few years? Because if this has now opened up a barn door to abuse or that is perhaps not the right word, because the law has been the way it has been so that a number of employees have not been taxed by their A-income or in other ways they as an employee have to be taxed, but have actually received this much lower tax rate and perhaps have been able to postpone a top tax payment altogether, then over the two years there may have been quite a lot of cases. So why have these two years gone by? Has it been a difficult bill to get knitted together?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504151136	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504151137	I don't remember exactly, but I think it was the summer of 2015. Well, part of 2015 I wasn't the tax minister, and it's an early warning that has come in my time as tax minister. Once we have spent, let us say a year and a half to find a solution to this, it has been about not hitting those who are real traders. The aim has been to make a targeted intervention, and there has been work on various models, and I, as the tax minister, have also said about some of these models, that I was concerned that, as rapporteurs in this Chamber have said, it would hit the wrong ones. There we have then worked to make a targeted intervention and, at the same time, we have been monitoring the number of partnerships that have emerged. There has of course been a development in this, and we can also explain this in writing, but in my view there is no alarming development. This is about closing a tax hole at an early stage. It would, of course, have been nice if I had been able to put forward the proposal we are holding here already six months or a few months after this warning. Unfortunately, this has not been possible, but in my optics it is not the case that there has been enormous and violent development in this area as a result.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504151258	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504151300	After all, the Minister himself says that there has been a development, and the comments also state that in the year 2000 there were 23 partnerships, that in 2010 there were 285 partnerships and that today it is estimated that there are almost 900 partnerships. There may be all kinds of reasons for this, but the increase is at least quite marked, even in the last 5-6 years. I understood the Minister's reply to what Dennis Flydtkjær also mentioned, so that an attempt will be made to find out how extensive this has been, if possible, and that is why we will be able to see whether there has been a development over the last few years. So just to be absolutely sure: should the Minister's comment be understood as meaning that the Minister will also try during the work of the committee to provide answers to the questions that have been raised about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504151359	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504151400	Yes, I can fully confirm that. What I myself tried to say in all silence was that if there was some smarter and easier and more intelligent solution than the one that lies here, we would have caught it. In the dialogue that has been held with stakeholders in this area, and during the consultation period and other things, there has been recognition that there is a problem here, but no one has, in my view, indicated a better solution. But if it goes to the legal and committee reading that is to be done, then I will look at it constructively. I can confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504151428	Thank you, Minister. No one else wanted to speak, and that concludes the debate. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504151447	The debate is open. The first rapporteur on the platform is Mr. Orla Sea of Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504151505	Thank you. The first envelope I opened in the office today included the 2016 Annual Report from Team Denmark, which announced that it had been the best sports year in recent times. So it has to be said that this proposal comes at a very good time to mark that we are very pleased with the achievements of the Olympics and the Paralympic Games. The Minister of Taxation believes that it would be reasonable to grant tax exemptions for prizes for those who have brought home medals from both the Olympics and the Paralympic Games. We support this, it should not be a secret, but we stand by the fact that we believe that it would have been just as sensible from the start to put forward the premises so that Team Denmark could have organized the support they would have given and could have given it in a way that had also helped to ensure that the breadth was incorporated into the way they prepared for the Olympic Games. But we recognise that this is a good opportunity to say to someone that they have certainly done a great job, which we have been pleased with and have seen a lot on television, so we support the proposal; it does not strike a bottom out of the box, but it is a sign that a great effort has been made. So we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504151655	Thank you, sir. Orla Sea, and welcome to Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær from the Danish People's Party, very much on the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504151709	Here we are dealing with quite a small proposal that is easily legible, is about very little money and also has effect for quite a few people, but although it is quite a few people, I think that after all it is people of whom very many Danes are proud, because it is of course about the Danes who have represented Denmark well and have made a great effort at the Olympics and the Paralympic games and have won a medal there. The proposal is to make the prize bonus awarded to medalists at the Olympics and the PL tax-free, and this is done in order to recognise the great effort they have made to get Denmark well placed. This is what we in the Danish People's Party think is very good, because it is important that we also recognise those who do good for Denmark and that we pay tribute to our heroes, whom I personally at least think these Olympic winners are. As I said at the beginning, this is a rather modest revenue of 1 million. kr., so of course it is also to be overlooked, even if it is with retroactive effect from and with the last Olympics, so the medal winners who also benefit from it. There are, of course, also some fundamental considerations here, although it is a small proposal and it is not very much money, because it also alters the principle that we have in Denmark that all income is taxable with a single small exception, and we think that basically is a good starting point. Of course, it also provides the basis for asking some questions. Why is it the Olympic Games and the PL that should be granted tax freedom, because why not if you win the World Cup in football or the European Championship in handball? Or: What about all the other people who make a good effort for Denmark? What about the fireman who saves some people from being burned, the soldier who has fought for us abroad, or what about a researcher who finds a cure for cancer? Don't you want them to have tax freedom, too? They should not do so today, because all personal income is in principle taxable. So we would have liked to have seen that a solution had been found with the fact that in order to appreciate the winners you just increased the bonus they get as an Olympic participant. It would give the same for them. However, we agree that we would like to give this recognition to our Olympic athletes when they have made a great effort to appreciate it, so we support the bill, but would have preferred to have seen the other model if we ourselves had a majority in the Folketing. But we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504151935	Thank you for that and we will move on to the rapporteur of the Left, Mrs Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504151944	Thank you for the floor. I'm just gonna get the microphone down, so I'm not that tall. This bill seeks to tax-free the prize bonus that the Danish medal winners of the Olympic and Para Olympic Games receive from Team Denmark. They receive this prize bonus in recognition of their achievements. This has been mentioned by several of the previous rapporteurs, but by exempting this prize bonus from tax we want to give athletes a special reward for bringing medals and honours from the world's largest sporting events home to Denmark. Tax freedom must include both the Olympic and Paralympic winter games and summer games and be for the future medalists. It is intended to equate athletes participating in the Olympics and PL, and therefore we propose a special tax exemption for all athletes at PL, i.e. para Olympic Games, who get supplemented prize bonus from Team Denmark by donations from others. In this way, the total prize bonus will correspond to what Olympic medals get. This will mean that Olympics and PL medals will be able to receive bonuses of the same size tax-free. It is proposed that the law of effect from the 2016 income year onwards so that it will apply to the medals won by the Olympics pg PL in Rio last summer. The Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504152107	Thank you for that, and welcome to Mr. Rune Lund from Enhedslisten. Sorry to have made a brief comment. The brief remark is from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504152122	Thank you. I also believe that we are all very proud when we see that medals are won, especially when it is at some of the biggest and most important events and sports championships in the world. But I do think that Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær also had a point. What about the fireman who saves a life? What about that nurse, what about the scientist who finds a cure? Will the Left also support the idea that their salary or bonus, or whatever it might be, will also be exempt from tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504152159	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504152200	You can always take up all sorts of different examples, but in this bill we put emphasis on Olympic and PL prize winners, and that's what we're focusing on.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504152209	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504152211	It is clear that that is the focus, but that is not the question. The question is, when you support such a proposal, it is because you say that this is something very special, and it is, but not in terms of income. Taxwise, we all pay taxes according to the rules that are, so why is it more special to have won a medal than to be a fireman and have saved a life or a nurse who has done the same, or the thousands, tens of thousands of people who make a difference every day? Why is it more specific and I hope the rapporteur does not say again that we have now chosen to focus on this because we usually have a principle that people are equal before the law, and that is why you pay the same tax if you are in the same objective situation or wage group, or whatever you call it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504152302	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504152304	I think we should appreciate all those who make an effort in Denmark, and fortunately most Danes do. That is why we want it to be better worth working. That's one of the things that makes you get a reward for going to work so that it pays better to work. It's one of our key issues in the election campaign, so it's not like we're just focusing on one group, but in this bill, we're only focusing on one group. Then we focus on those who need a reward for going to work at another time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504152328	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504152332	Well, there's not much more than this I'd like to give a reward. Well, it's amazing when we get medals home, but there are so many other things you'd like to give a reward. Has the rapporteur considered whether World Cup medals or European Championships in all possible sports should also be rewarded? I myself am a sportsman and I want to, but I think that at some level there is a slip in what we legislate about here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504152357	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504152359	Of course. The World Cup and the European Championships have also been mentioned, and I understand that people also mention this. It's not part of this proposal, it's not.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504152409	Then there are no more brief comments, and then the trip has come to Mr. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504152427	This proposal is, I believe, a very small one. It is a proposal in which less revenue from the scheme is estimated to be 1 million. kr. I think we must congratulate the Liberal Alliance on the great political victory that the Liberal Alliance may have achieved on this point in the government. It is about making prizes that athletes in the Olympics and Paralympic Games receive from Team Denmark, tax-free. After all, these are athletes who have represented Denmark and who have won prizes and of whom we have been proud and whom we have seen on television and with whom we have joined, and these are athletes who have made a fantastic effort. But, as others have said in today's debate, you have to ask yourself: why is it only right here, why is it not if you win medals by, for example, EM or World Cup? Then you can also ask whether it is really here that is most in need of economic help. The most difficult economical thing at all is to reach the Olympics, so if you were to go in and support the athletes, it was in the process of helping more athletes to reach the Olympics and represent Denmark rather than give a tax discount. In this case, an exception is made to the rule that everyone is equal before the law and that everyone pays the same tax, and an exception to the principle that all income must in principle be taxable. It is an exception to a principle which we find deeply strange. One might ask whether not exactly the firefighter's work is at least as important as winning a medal at an Olympics. Or the nurse or the doctor who saves lives in the hospital and who makes sure that someone who falls down with, for example. cardiac arrest, still gone is part of the family even after such an incident. Or police officers who protect citizens every day and help citizens in their daily work, who go to work every day and are often involved in dangerous situations. Or the primary school teacher who, with his luminous and fervent commitment to teaching, pulls young people who may be entering a criminal career out of it and shows them the way to other ways of leading their lives by giving them knowledge and insight and inspiring them to live a different life. Is it not something that could be said to justify their having a tax rebate as well? It's such a strange boundary that you just do it in this case. So even though we are really happy and proud of all the prizes and medals that are won and dragged home to Denmark, we think this is a strange proposal, which means that exactly for this small group we choose to make it tax-free. So the Enhedslisten cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504152753	There are no brief comments, so we thank you. The next one is sir. Leif Mikkelsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504152801	Thank you. This proposal is, of course, about tax relief, and it comes as no surprise to anyone here, I believe that the Liberal Alliance is pursuing any possibility of granting tax relief. And then I stand here and will be very, very happy and satisfied, because now there are a number of members of the Danish Parliament who point out that it should not only be this narrow group that is garbagemen, and there is everything else. So I can already predict that there will be broad support for autumn negotiations on tax cuts for garbagemen, for ordinary Danes, all around, so SF, Enhedslisten and the Alternative have joined the field, so it looks really good, I think. So if this proposal has paved the way for the general position here in the Danish Parliament that it is quite awful that they do not get any tax cuts, then I would say that this is the policy of the Liberal Alliance, because if Liberal Alliance's policy was implemented, then the tax was not higher in Denmark than that this was perhaps completely superfluous, and then we made no discrimination. So despite the fact that we think it is well deserved because they are talented, we would rather have a proper policy implemented which did not mean that we should make this kind of patchwork solution and so on. But since that is the case, I would also like to say that in my parliamentary group there is one person who has a considerable interest in the remark that it is retroactive, and he has said so that it should be with long retroactivity. However, it is not in the proposal and, despite that, the Liberal Alliance nevertheless supports this proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504152948	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Leif Mikkelsen from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504152952	Yeah, 'cause I think, sir. Leif Mikkelsen misunderstood us. We want there to be equality for the tax law, we can say, and that is, of course, what is politically the majority for the tax should be higher or lower or stay at the same level. Yes, it is well known that you want the tax down, but I actually thought it was also the starting point of the Liberal Alliance that there should still be equality, compared to that it depends on your income, which level you are taxed at.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504153023	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504153024	That is quite right, that balance is there. This is a tax relief that is well deserved. We also believe that a tax relief for all Danes would be well deserved, and that is where I appeal to the SF to live up to its comments when we come to the tax negotiations and contribute to a tax relief for all Danes. Then we narrow down the need for such patch solutions in the future. However, we do not sit here in the Chamber and vote against a proposal that provides tax relief, even if it makes us a particular group. So the day Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen is involved in implementing the tax policy of the Liberal Alliance, we can meet on something like this in general.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504153100	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Leif Mikkelsen. There are no more brief comments, and the next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. René Gade from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504153109	Following the positive domination by the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, I have to find the positive elements of this proposal, because, to put it mildly, it is a curious distribution of tax relief in the country to start by being Olympic participants and participants in the paralympic games that have won medals to tax-free. If this is the first step on the road in the Liberal Alliance's plan to give tax relief to all Danes, then all honour and respect for it, because you have to start with one step at a time. But that is certainly not something we have agreed to in the alternative, according to the statements I have made in this Chamber today. I believe that we must acknowledge and support our athletes, and I think that this is almost the most unpopular thing to say no to, except to say that in the alternative we will not relax housing taxes. But we do allow ourselves to do so anyway, because we think there are so many things in this bill that will simply start a wildfire of wishing that there are people with special interests who need tax relief. It could, as has been said earlier, be one who has won a World Cup or an EM; it could be a firefighter; it could be an artist; it could be one and the other. There is a rule in Denmark that you are taxed by your income, and we want to stick to it. But I must also hurry to say that in the alternative we would also like to promote certain agendas, and sometimes we would also like to give more relaxed conditions, for example. to support sustainable conversion. It could be the climate we would like to give a helping hand, it could be the entrepreneurs, it could be anything else. It could be someone who was socially at risk, it could be so many things. So I will say nothing more than that this is, of course, something you can happily suggest, even though we think it is a very, very niche approach, because it only includes a small group of athletes who make a big difference, fight for Denmark, give great publicity and act as a model for the rest of the nation. We fully understand that we want to do so, but we simply cannot support it. Perhaps we think that the conditions of the paralympic participants and their prizes are something that we are about to discuss and that this is worthy of discussion. Because when I read through the proposal, I was not so keen that there are at least some differences there. It is supported by some companies and some foundations, so that there will be another prize sum for those who participate in the paralympic games. Perhaps you could do it like that if you wanted to award our Olympic gold winners in a different way. Maybe we could crowdfund in some way, but it shouldn't be something that was crowded found by the state. So we say no, thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504153345	Thank you, sir. René Gade. There are no brief comments. Welcome to sir. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504153354	In the Radical Left, we have chosen to support this bill. We do that primarily because it is so small a sum. We don't think that even though I'm standing in a size 38 and wearing small shoes, we'll be standing here saying that now that the government wants to give this little extra money to some people who have made a lot of effort, we won't stand there and say no to it. But we think it might be preferable to consider spending some money on developing some more talents so that we could win some more medals. Now I have noticed that the gold fire can no longer win gold because discipline has been abolished, so it might be that we should spend some money on finding a new discipline that we could continue to win instead of this. But joke aside: we're voting for this little bill, which may cost a million every four years.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504153452	There is a brief comment from Mr. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504153456	I just stumbled over the fact that the radical rapporteur used the term 'had made an effort', a special effort. If we're gonna take the bike race. We can probably all remember that there are some who are outbursts in the bike race, the line race, and Fuglsang is behind and is not at a medal, but he fights and he fights, he makes a huge effort. Unfortunately, it was only enough for a fourth place. He shouldn't have had anything, he hadn't made an effort. Now it happens that two that lie ahead, or some of those that lie ahead, fall right on the last downhill with the result that Birdsang comes in and gets a silver medal. Then he's made an effort. So, excuse me, can the Radical Left not elaborate on what it means to make an effort in this regard?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504153543	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504153544	I get the point. It's on Mr. Kevin's hands. Søren Søndergaard is right.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504153550	Thank you for that and that was the only brief remark. We move on to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen as rapporteur for the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504153605	Thank you. This isn't the first time we've discussed this. It's kind of a hoax for some of us. I also believe that if you are an athletes in a discipline in which there is little money, and that is a relatively large number of sports disciplines, it may well be economical to get a tax exemption from this bonus. But it would also mean something if you were a firefighter or nurses etc. This isn't about wearing little shoes, because I don't think anyone will be unaffected if athletes work hard and win, whether someone is in front of those who fall by bike or whatever it is. It is perhaps such a bit of a urinal in us that we think it is amazing when someone represents Denmark. But there are also huge differences between sportsmen and women. There are soccer players who make millions. I do not know what you earn if you do other sports, but there are at least some where you cannot in any way live on it and have to have a job next door. So there is a huge difference in economic performance. For the top football player it cannot be felt in the budget, while for others it will be felt. There are also a few other exceptions, as the comments on the draft law also state, and these are in some other areas, among others. Nobel Prize winners, where I think it is a long time ago that a Dane has been awarded a Nobel Prize. It's also in the same, what to say, niche area like this. I think that the basic thing in this is that we say that you have to pay tax on your wage income or how else you are taxed, and there you are in favour of the tax law, in other words in relation to grouping in relation to taxation. There I think the thing about going in and saying that today it is Olympic winners and PL winners, and tomorrow it may be another special group, is something that doesn't belong anywhere. We therefore need to have general rules on how to tax people. I think that is actually a principle of law, i.e. a principle enshrined in the tax law. In fact, I think the tax minister himself will say that. So the thing about making these exceptions is something weird. Then you have to change the legislation in general, so everyone is equal. I also think it is a pity to have to show our gratitude and admiration for everything through tax legislation. Well, I think that those who may have been received in the capital or have been at the city hall or something have been able to feel that people have been thrilled that a World Cup in handball or an EM in football has been won, or whatever it may be. So, although I am actually thinking from up here about the half-poor athletes we have some of in this country, I would say that I believe that Mr. Rune Lund said that there really are some who hardly have salt for an egg. But they go on because they're so excited about what they're doing. It's not easy for any of them. And then there are others who make the money, and I guess it's gotta be them too. But the SF cannot support this bill, and it is for reasons of principle.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504154004	Thank you to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, and welcome to Mr Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Anders Johansson from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504154012	Thank you. As you know, the bill is about changing the tax rules so that medal winners at Olympic Games and Paralympic Games are exempted from paying tax on the prize bonus they receive when they win medals to Denmark at the Games. It is a legislative proposal that we, on the conservative side, are very much in favour of. We think it is very reasonable that those who make an extraordinary effort for Denmark and win glory to Denmark at the Olympics are also rewarded for their efforts and that they are allowed to keep that reward for themselves. The Danish athletes are helping to gather the nation and make us proud when we manage to get the brewing brews to the top of the Olympic Games. I think it is very reasonable that we let them keep their medal prizes themselves. In advance, the medal bonuses received by Danish athletes are at the very low end compared to many other countries, i.e. at the very low end. And when, at the same time, a very high tax is to be paid on it, then the economic gain is very, very small compared to the great effort it requires. Against this background, we on the Conservative side believe that it is very fair and reasonable to allow medalists to keep their bonuses completely and fully, including retroactively, but only back to 2016. Finally, I also think it is important to mention • and it has not been mentioned yet in the debate that SU recipients have been set off in their SU in relation to the prize they received if they won medals at the Olympics. And that has also been changed now, so that you will not be set off in SU if you receive a medal prize. In those words, the Conservative People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504154152	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504154156	I think it is well known to many Danes that the Minister of Business himself has been a champion for many not years, but Olympics to have this medal prize made tax-free. And we fully share the view that it is good to recognise the great bets the Danes make when they are at such tournaments. I would just like to ask the Conservative People's Party whether they have considered that, instead of giving tax exemption, because it goes beyond the principle that all income is taxable, it can simply increase the premium bonus accordingly. That would give exactly the same for practitioners, and then you are away from the fundamental question of giving tax freedom to a single group. I just want to hear what the Conservative People's Party is thinking about that solution. It could then be 1 million. kr. extra every four years, which instead of spending on tax freedom was used to give the premium a little upwards, so it gave the same thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504154244	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504154251	I understand the question put by the questioner, but that then presents some other challenges, for example. Compared to this thing with the SU receivers. At any rate, it has consequences which this bill does not provide, and I cannot immediately see through whether there will be any new problems. The SU receiver will, for example: still be set off in the SU in proportion to the premium being paid. But the most important thing for us with this proposal is that we pay tribute to those who win that honour home to Denmark. It's kind of what we want, quite simply. When medals are won to Denmark, we think it is fair that practitioners are allowed to keep their medal prizes themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504154326	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504154326-2	I think we all agree in this Chamber that we should pay tribute to these medals. That's not what I was asking. It was more the principle of whether to pay tribute to them with tax freedom, or to pay tribute to them with a greater bonus. It's the same thing. I agree that there is a challenge with SU recipients, but that can be solved in isolation for them. So you can make exceptions to what should be offset in the SU, whether it is grants or other things that should be offset. So I guess you could solve that if it was. It is more because I just want to have a discussion of it down here in the Parliament before you vote yes. Are there reasons in principle why it should be the tax screw that is being turned down instead of the premium being set upwards? Because for the recipient it will give basically the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504154404	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504154405	I think it's just a principle that you get to keep your bonus for yourself. At least that is what I would like to say at the outset. I mean, I understand that it may be net that there may be a difference that will be the same amount you get paid, but I just think there might be a principle that this bonus that you've been out to win home and for which you've fought hard, you're allowed to keep for yourself. It is probably more a principle than it is a question of one or the other amount.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504154434	Thank you to Conservatives' rapporteur, and welcome to the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504154440	Thank you for the floor, President. And thank you for the largely positive reception of the bill from a relatively broad majority, as far as I can tell, in the Parliamentary Chamber. As has been said, this is a small bill with a less negative effect on revenue, in which we give special recognition and reward to the athletes who bring medals and honours home to Denmark from the Olympic and Paralympic games, which are the world's largest sporting event, where a wide range of sports disciplines is represented. You can use that as an argument in relation to the interface to the World Cup and other things, if you want to. In the end, it is always a delimitation discussion where the cut is placed. The government has then chosen to put it here where it is. And we do so for historical reasons. I would like to point out that the draft law also provides for an exemption from the additional premium bonus received by the paralympic athletes of the summer from the Elsass Foundation, which brought their total prize bonus up to the level of the Olympic athletes' prize bonus. And this equality between Olympic and Paralympic athletes is important to the government. I am not going to make so many comments on the debate that has been going on, other than thanking Mr Seligman. Søren Søndergaard for a lively and pictorial question to one of the former rapporteurs. And then I can say to Mr. Knox. Dennis Flydtkjær and Dansk Folkeparti's question to the rapporteur of the Conservatives that we have also had thoughts about the issue of giving a larger premium. It is, of course, a proposal that has a history, not only from the previous government, but from a previous government again, the VK government, where this was also discussed at the time within the government, as I recall. And it ended up with the fact that we did not get through with a tax exemption, but that we increased the premium bonus. The challenge of increasing the prize bonus is that the athletes who are not taxable for Denmark will also benefit from it. Many of the sports participating in the Olympic Games are some sports where there is little money. But there are also sports where there is a lot of money involved, and for that reason, I suppose, or possibly for other reasons, some of the athletes have chosen to settle in a country other than Denmark. It may also be relevant to their sport. But if they are not taxable to Denmark, they will get an advantage that they won't get when we do it this way, and that's why we think it's better.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504154739	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504154745	Thank you, Minister. Now I am sure that this proposal is really well worked out in the overstaffed tax administration and that it has been spent until several years of work to really investigate the details so that no problems arise. That is why I would just like to ask the Minister of Taxation to come up with his alert note and tell us something: how many of the athletes who attended the Olympics and had the opportunity to win prizes here at the last Olympics really live in tax havens.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504154812	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504154814	I have my emergency paper, but there is neither the question nor the answer to the question that Mr. Søren Søndergaard asks. I don't know, but I hope no one does. However, as I said, it has been crucial for the government that we do this through a tax exemption, because then we take into account those who are taxable for Denmark, and we think that is most reasonable.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504154843	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504154845	That is quite correct, but when you tell the Danish Parliament how much you expect it to cost, you have to have a presumption of how many it will be, and to find out how many it will be, you have to know how many of the athletes who actually pay taxes in Denmark and how many of them are classified elsewhere. So I think the Minister should go back and investigate so that we can clarify this before we vote on this in the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504154912	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504154914	If sir... Søren Søndergaard asks a written question, I am sure we can answer. But it is actually very interesting, because it conflicts slightly with the rules that apply, that I, as the tax minister, should not go into specific matters, and I think that is quite reasonable. I am not sure that we will be able to respond publicly, because there are also some rules regarding access to people's personal tax information and other things. But if it is a matter of concern to Mr. Søren Søndergaard, I should like to set aside resources to investigate it, so the resources go from the rest of the work in the Treasury. But we answer the questions that are being asked.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504154951	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. No one else wants to speak, and that is why the negotiations have been concluded. I propose that the bill be passed on to the Tax Committee. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504155008	The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Orla Sea of Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504155029	Thank you. I would like to say that I think it is a good day today for all of us who like racing and the culture that belongs here. Today, a basis is being created for racing and related sports to be given the opportunity to revitalize themselves. The game of these races means that sport regains its independence and takes over the responsibility of creating a new start and thus new opportunities. Figuratively speaking, players are given the opportunity to row and manage the vessel that is to ensure the cultures necessary for racing with horses, dogs and pigeons. It is old cultures that form a wide range from farming, training, running and gambling on these animals. Many families have a rich social life with many opportunities to experience them. For many, it is the dream of creating a future Tarok that runs the work. The parties to the bill which lies here today agree that, in the light of the analyses and developments in the gambling market as well as the experience and wishes of horse and dog racing and mail pigeon sport, a number of initiatives are needed in the field of gambling. It cannot be emphasized enough that it will be absolutely essential that the competence to offer games at races be left to sport, which will then have to find its technical and practical means of spreading and implementing the game through one or more operators. Only in this way will we provide the optimal starting point for revitalizing sports and games. There are, of course, a number of questions which will call for clarification in committee. It is the case that racing games are games that are based to a not insignificant extent on knowledge, and that is why it is in many ways preferable to mere random games. However, dissemination and information are essential and must, of course, be part of what is to be spent on by game providers. On the Socialist side, we support the bill and will actively take part in the continued discussion through the committee towards the new framework for racing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504155306	Thank you, sir. Orla Sea. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504155316	As already mentioned by the previous rapporteur, this is about the liberalisation of a number of games, and one of them is online bingo. Among other things, it has to be done. This is because, according to the draft law, the unregulated market is considered to be twice as large as the regulated market, and this will then be followed up with this bill, which, among other things, will happen. has the positive effect that there will be a better option for protecting players against gambling addiction. I don't want to spend so much time on that part of the bill, but of course we support it. The second part is something to which more attention has been paid, and that is the liberalisation of horse racing. This is an area which has had major problems for many years and which has been debated for a very long time, because there has been both a decline in turnover and a decline in interest. After all, the industry itself has had a great desire for liberalisation because it could perhaps create a greater link between the game and the industry. We will do so, among other things. With this, we know that in addition to this charge on games that are already in place, we are doing an additional 8 per cent tax, which then falls to the Danish horse racing industry. I think that will be a positive way of doing so, because then you will have a greater influence on making sure that the industry survives. Where it used to be pool bets you could enter into, you're going to be able to make these fastodd bets, that is, what you probably typically know through the odd system, where you can odds on a football match or a result, then it's going to be something similar with horse racing, i.e. a fixed odds. I think that can also create a good effect on horse racing, because you could then imagine that you played more on two football matches and then a couple of horse races, or there could be some connection in the way people play, and it could also create some more interesting combinations for users. I think that is a significant change. The overall positive thing about this is that it gives the industry greater ownership, because they themselves can influence their economy and their future to a greater extent, and we think that is quite reasonable. That's why we in the Danish People's Party can support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504155535	Thank you, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, and welcome to Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504155542	Thank you for the floor. This bill is part of the broad political agreement of January 2017 on the liberalisation of a number of small monopoly games and the introduction of a special contribution to horse racing. The background to the bill is analysis of the development of the gambling market as well as experiences and wishes from horse, dog and mail pigeon sport, and there is agreement that there is a need to make changes in the field of gambling. I must not hide the fact that this liberalisation of horse racing is something that has been very much in the minds of the Left and for which we have fought a great deal, so in the Left we are very pleased with the bill. Danish Games here today monopoly in horse racing, and the current model has not managed to maintain interest among the players. Since 2007, turnover has been decreasing, which has been negative for horse racing. Games on horses are an important part of the environment and tradition in horse racing in Denmark. Horse sports also help create employment and development and activities in rural areas. The draft law seeks to introduce a special contribution of 8%. of the turnover of betting on Danish horse racing, and it is our hope that with the liberalisation of horse racing we will have better opportunities for horse racing in Denmark to develop the sport and the games for the benefit of racetracks around the country and for the benefit of horse sports at all. Furthermore, the parties wish to liberalise online bingo in order to get players from the unregulated market into the Danish regulated market with protection of players and gambling. Indeed, we have seen an increasing proportion playing on the unregulated market. Today, the unregulated market for online bingo is estimated to be almost twice as large as the regulated market, and we would like to change that. The current monopoly model is no longer the best model for taking care of the concerns behind gambling legislation. In general, we think that it is positive when we can liberalise these areas. On behalf of the Left, I must inform you that we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504155757	Thank you to the rapporteur. I do not see any brief comments, so we will continue in the rapporteur's line. The next one is sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504155812	After all, this bill is based on the fact that all parties except Enhedslisten and the Alternative made an agreement in January to liberalise individual monopoly games and to introduce an aid scheme for horse racing. The proposal involves the liberalisation of online bingo, and it is then done with the aim of channelling players from the unregulated market into a Danish regulated market with associated Danish protection of players. And it's kind of isolated, but I think everyone must be aware of that, too, I think that the parties that are behind this agreement are also going to lead to many more providers and much more aggressive marketing. And I think that this problem is rather absent when you look at the proposal here. There is also the liberalisation of horse-race betting, among other things. with the aim of increasing interest in horse racing. A special contribution of 8 per cent is made to horse racing. the turnover on Danish horse-race betting, and that is also, what should you say, an incentive structure that will provide a strong incentive for aggressive marketing. Then there is also the liberalisation of dog betting and betting on hijacking with carrier pigeons, among others. for the purpose, as described, of increasing interest in sport. Overall, this legislation follows the liberalisation in 2012, which allowed all providers who meet a number of requirements to be able to offer bets and online casinos in Denmark. Games on horses and dog races were however during Danish Games, but these must now also be liberalised along with letter pigeon flying and online bingo. The idea, which is in fact good and right, is, as has been described, to put an end to the grey gambling market and to ensure that providers take into account the overriding public interest as it is called. And they are formulated as being to keep the spending of games on money at a moderate level, to protect young people or other vulnerable persons from being exploited through gambling or to develop gambling addiction, to protect players by ensuring that games are offered in a fair, responsible and transparent manner, and to ensure public order and prevent gambling from serving as a support for crime. And that's good and noble purpose. But if, for example, we do. Looking at how many advertisements there are on television for all kinds of and impossible gambling opportunities, it has to be said that it is very clear that the 2012 liberalisation does not immediately seem to be able to ensure a moderate level. So our position in the Enhedslisten is that the liberalisation in this area all other things equal entails an increase in activity and more advertising of gambling that can lure delicate souls with gambling trends, and the liberalisation of online casino has led to a marked increase in their marketing, for example. on TV ads. And you can see that just by opening up your television. Overall, we believe that, despite some of the good intentions that lie in it, the proposal is moving in the wrong direction and therefore the Enhedslisten cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504160155	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments here either, so we shall continue and give the floor to Mr Beazley. Leif Mikkelsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504160205	Thank you. We can support this proposal. After all, it has had a long run, a vote agreement among a number of parties and a long process of negotiation, and lately, I would say, fine cooperation between the tax minister and the Minister for Culture has led us to reach the finish line. The negotiations have already set out what is involved in liberalisation in the proposal, and the question which, like jokes in the scenes, has been the situation of horse sports and the betting involved and the difficulties involved. If it were to survive in Denmark, it was necessary to find a solution. Let's hope it's found here. In any case, a hand-out has been given and a model has been found, and then we must hope that the interest and commitment about it can bear, for Mr. Orla Hav is right when he points to the culture it represents and the role it plays in the local area. But it is an activity that has been weakened in recent years, and so one can ask whether it can survive in the long term at all. Let's hope so. Now we are giving it a hand, and it has been investigated that it is also a legal model in relation to the EU rules that have been chosen here. As I said, there are also some liberalisations in this proposal, and it is therefore to be hoped that the tax minister, who is in charge of this, will also go to the pay chamber and think further about living up to being a bourgeois tax minister, so that one day we will have a proposal for real liberalisation, that is to say the privatisation of Danish gambling in Denmark, so that competition and freedom will be possible and everything I assume that we will also talk about in the tax minister's party. So it is just mentioned here as a pious wish that one day we will come there with a bourgeois tax minister. But we support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504160408	Thank you to the rapporteur and there are still no brief comments. So the next speaker is the rapporteur for the alternative, sir. René Gade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504160418	It will be relatively brief because we in the Alternative Group have decided that we will just wait in the debate here in Parliament today because we think there are some opposing interests here. We would really like to support the proposal, but have not really taken a decision yet, because we actually think that there is a risk that there is a profession and some sports institutions around the country that may suffer a huge blow to this, so if we do nothing. There is also a risk that we will be disabling sports, which may not actually have a sustainable future without massive support. There we have to find out what is up and down and we have not been involved in these debates in the past, so I will simply sit with big ears and listen to the rest of the treatment, and then I will come back with a message to either the second reading or after committee work. We'll see about that. So I'll keep listening.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504160519	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is Mr. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left. Is there another speaker from the Radical Left? No. So we keep going, and then we have to see if the Radical Left is coming back. We are waiting for half a minute, because I can see that the rapporteur is here now. You don't have to run. It's always nice when the speakers are here, but welcome to.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504160556	I'm sorry. It may sound a bit crazy when it appears from the debate that it is liberalisation, and Mr. Leif Mikkelsen also mentioned the desire of the Liberal Alliance to have it all privatised and to achieve real liberalisation. The reason why we are in favour of this so-called liberalisation is not because we want there to be more games and that it has to be in private hands. It's because you can see from this online bingo that there's a double market outside of Danske Game, i.e. an unregulated market where we can't protect consumers and make sure that the game takes place in a proper way. Therefore, we think it is sensible to say that more than Danske Games can offer online bingo, because then we can also regulate that market so that it is done in a proper way to those who play, so that hopefully we can avoid gambling and cheating, and what else can be. We are in favour of this liberalisation, because we believe that it puts the Danes and the users of these games in a better position. The second big lump in the bill is this discussion about horse racing. As several rapporteurs have said, this is something that takes up a great deal in those cities and the regions where you have horse racing and where it has been a major part of history in that area. I myself visited Skive track a few years ago and got an insight into how frustrated you were over Danske Spils' way of running horse racing. I can safely say without thinking that I offended those I visited that it was very unhappy and thought that Danske Games had not been a good horse racing provider. So you wanted to get away from that. That's what you do with this bill. I think that Mr. Leif Mikkelsen of the Liberal Alliance was very honest in saying that it is no guarantee that it is now turning towards horse racing with income and spectators etc. It all depends on whether you can now find a product, develop the sport in such a way that more people will play and go to horse races. It is now up to the sport itself to prove that they can do it, and that is also what I understood at least that day in Skive that you would actually like, because you believed that you could develop horse racing if you were set free. Well, we'll see about that. I hope they can get something out of that. This is the implementation of a settlement that we are involved in, and that is why we support it, of course. We are also pleased with the two elements I have mentioned here, which is why we support the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504160844	Thank you to the rapporteur and the next rapporteur is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504160852	Thank you. As my predecessor just said, this is the implementation of an agreement. The subtitle of this bill, the liberating of online bingo, horse and dog betting and racing bets with carrier pigeons, and the introduction of a special contribution to horse racing have led some to smile, but what is really important here is that for others it is just one of the most important things. And what we've also wanted to make sure of with this agreement is that especially such things as horse racing, which means a lot to those who care about it, should not be a Danish tradition that suddenly died out because we had a system that couldn't really sustain it. But as Mr. Leif Mikkelsen said, it is now up to the parties themselves to make it viable, because there are also limits to what we can and what we have to do in here. But at least now we have removed an obstacle and also tried to give them a good start in relation to the transition period that is coming now. One of the things that I have been very concerned about on behalf of the SF in the negotiations has been that when we have now liberalised online bingo and it may sound a little strange, as the rapporteur of the Radicals also mentioned, it was precisely to get some sort of assurance that we actually know who these people are and that we can more closely follow it and engage in gambling and so on. I would have liked to have seen us go further in looking at marketing and advertising too. I don't know what it's like with some of you or with some of those that come with you, but it certainly pops up, and it probably pops up more often with those who sit by computers and are on these pages, because the algorithms can find out. In this way we have a problem and it is more pronounced with online bingo than that, for example. is at horse and dog races. We know it's pretty well documented... what kind of gambling creates big gambling problems. That is why I am also pleased that the Minister has promised to follow this closely, especially this area, which I would actually like to call a problem area, because there are certain parts of the games where there are too, too high a number of gambling people among those involved in it. So I'm really glad we found 2 million together. kr. more to the gambling effort and that the area is being followed. I also think it was quite clear in the text of the agreement that this is something that everyone is interested in following. Then, of course, there are all the voluntary organisations, all those who benefit from the means of distribution. It was also very important to secure them in the new structure, and there have been concerns in the process about precisely our sport or our association, or whatever you're doing out there: Well are we risking something here? There we have tried to link up a model so that we secure a large part of the volunteers and sports organisations, etc. But some things may happen, and that is why we also have the compensatory model. It is not between the municipalities, but it is the state's model to ensure that if the gambling activity falls more than you expect, then you cover part of the loss that would otherwise have been, because the distribution funds will be distributed in proportion to the activity that is within Danske Game. That percentage, and that sounds a little technical, we have got up to 60, and that also means that there is a slightly higher level of safety net under the voluntary organisations, under the sports organisations and under those who could risk getting distributed a little less if the game patterns change a lot. It's hard to predict the future, but I expect that when we meet again in a few years' time I think we've agreed on that, we'll also know a little more about how the game patterns have evolved. We can already see that there are some types of games that are rapidly progressing and that other types then disappear. And, of course, it is important that we focus on it too and set up our system and the means of distribution according to the development that is there. But just to underline my point again: when we as a state receive a lot of money in taxes on the basis of people's games and on the other hand say that people play no matter what, we are also trying to make an effort to help those who get into trouble. Fortunately, most people can handle it. But when we, as a state and as a society, get money through this game consumption, we also have a special task, even a moral task, to ensure that we keep our hands on those who are in trouble, and also to ensure that there will continue to be means of distribution to the voluntary organisations. It's like the agreement that has been made with the people, that there's a little something being given and taken into this arrangement. But, of course, we support the agreement. We think this is a good agreement and would also like to congratulate both the tax minister and the various cultural ministers who have been involved in the agreement on a regular basis. It's been a great process.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504161443	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we will continue with the last rapporteur on this occasion, and that is Mr Beazley. Anders Johansson, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504161451	Thank you. The aim of the bill is to implement some elements of the agreement we reached in January on the liberalisation of a number of small monopoly games, such as online bingo, horse and dog racing and dove racing. In addition, the bill also introduces a special contribution to horse racing. The Conservative People's Party is part of the agreement and, of course, supports the bill. We generally support liberalisation, where it makes sense, and we certainly do, for example, when we do so. has an online bingo market where the unregulated market is considered to be twice as large as the regulated market. So in this context, it makes such sense to us. In addition, the agreement and the bill provide for the introduction of a special contribution to horse racing, which will improve horse sport, thereby increasing the interest in horse racing. It is a model that is also known from abroad, where it has been successfully introduced and which is then introduced here, and that part of the legislative proposal, of course, we can also support. So we can all support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504161605	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is the tax minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504161611	Thank you for the floor and thank you for receiving the bill. After all, as a number of rapporteurs have said, it implements a number of elements of the political agreement reached in January of this year on the liberalisation of online bingo, the liberalisation of horse and dog racing and, last but not least, the liberalisation of racing with pigeons. As a tax minister, I am pleased that we have managed to reach a broad political agreement that ensures that the Danish gambling market operates in a good and, in my view, appropriate way, and I am also pleased with the second part of the political agreement of January 2017, i.e. this year, on a new distribution of distribution funds for charitable purposes. The voluntary association life plays a huge role for our society and the many Danes, who are either a member of a voluntary association every day, are active in a voluntary association or help as a volunteer in a voluntary association, and we have a model that ensures the volunteers and the association life stable financial framework. There is the model we have chosen in Denmark, where we take part of the profits from the game market and give to the voluntary association life, completely unique, and a model that we should safeguard. I am very concerned about this as a tax minister, but also as a Liberal and as a politician in general, and it is therefore crucial that we have a model that ensures a stable economic framework. We have obtained this model with the new distribution model, on which a broad majority in the Folketing agrees. We can be very satisfied with that, and I am proud as the tax minister to have been involved in it. The new distribution of the distribution funds is not part of this bill, but it will be put forward by the Minister for Culture. But we negotiated the two things together in the autumn and in the spring. Now, as several rapporteurs have also mentioned, we are continuing the liberalisation of the Danish gambling market, which started in 2012, and with the proposed liberalisation of online bingo and horse and dog racing, we are opening up the Danish gambling market even more to hopefully create better and more competition. At the same time, liberalisation means that these games are offered in a reasonably responsible and transparent manner. Today, the unregulated market for online bingo is estimated to be almost twice as large as the regulated market, and on this point, the situation is very similar to that for racing and online casino games prior to the liberalisation of the games in 2012. The liberalisation at the time ensured that the games were channeled into a Danish regulated market. The liberalisation of online bingo has the same purpose, namely to ensure that there is an attractive offer of the game and thus to channel players from the unregulated market into the Danish regulated market with the protection of players and also money for profit recipients and the Danish Treasury, and this liberalisation also ensures that we have a responsible framework for the supply of games in the future. I would also like to highlight the new aid scheme for horse racing. It is a system that, we must say, has had a rather harsh birth, but I think it has ended very well and the aid scheme is secured through a special contribution to supporting sport. After all, it is a model that has been proposed by horse racing and a model that has been used successfully both in France and in Britain. The advantage of this support scheme is that there will be an interaction between horse racing and gambling providers, as better horse racing creates opportunities for better racing etc., and the more the Danish courses are played, the greater the contribution the horse racing sport receives from the game providers. That is why, in my view, it is a system in which everyone wins and which benefits all players. This must, of course, be compared with the liberalisation of the supply of horse racing, and future game providers will have a wide opportunity to put together exciting bets on Danish horse racing. If I may make a few comments on some of the rapporteur's speeches that have been made, I would like to say to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, who mentions this with gambling addiction, that we will come back to that. In connection with the 2012 liberalisation agreement in the field of the tax minister, we will discuss gambling later this year. As I have said, we have set aside some money to ensure that when we liberalise online bingo, there are also some good treatment offers, and there is help for those who might be caught in the gambling trap, and I look forward to those negotiations. Well, then, I'll tell Mr. Knox. Leif Mikkelsen of the Liberal Alliance, who urged me to go to my payroll and make proposals to liberalise Danish Games, that I would very much like to go to my payroll, and the result of that might well be that of the Liberal Alliance and Mr Leif Mikkelsen. Leif Mikkelsen is asking for it, but I have to admit honestly that it is not my resort but that of the Minister of Finance. So that's him, sir. Leif Mikkelsen would have to persuade him to come to the right result, and I am sure that work will be done on the internal lines. In those words, however, I would like to thank you for your speaking time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504162214	There is one brief comment, Mr President. Orla Sea, the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504162223	First of all, there should be no doubt that I would like to thank the Minister very warmly for having played an active role in achieving this. Now I can read the Minister's glimpse in my eye, but I still think that the Minister should know that those pigeons actually make up 1,500 active people across the country, and they have great pleasure and pleasure in helping to raise pigeons for that sport. So it's not a little bit, it's actually a big interest. What I would like the Minister to do for us is to make sure that the racing sport itself helps to row and set the direction on how to get the best possible result out of this, to fulfil the intentions that most of us have expressed, namely that it would be very good for us to get a boost on horse racing in particular, and how to ensure that it is horse racing itself that has our finger on the pulse and foot on both speeder and brake in this course that we are going into now?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504162322	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504162325	It is very much up to the sport itself to help secure it. We have sent out a clear political signal, and with the agreement that has been reached, including in the field of the Minister for Culture, the funding fund for horse racing, which has been criticized, among others, is being abolished. horse racing to control the sport. As I understand it, the money that should be allocated to sport is given to horse racing as a good opportunity to get started with this liberalised market. So the framework is free and a clear political signal has been sent out, and that is why I am confident that it must be possible for sport to make this liberalisation a success. Otherwise, of course, we have put in a review clause where we have indicated that we have to look there and I will do that as the tax minister, if I have something to say at that time, with constructive eyes on the problems that then arise. But I hope there will be no problems, I hope it will be a success.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504162424	The questioner with the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504162428	What I would like to hold the Minister to is who it is that ensures that it is still the sport that plays the leading role. We have seen in the previous regime that the game was handed over to a company, and then it became the case that sport itself could not row or direction it, and that is the incentive we need, namely that sport itself should be given it. If there is a need to change things, who has the appropriation to change it? Is it the tax minister who can grant that grant so that sport itself organises the way in which it wants to have the game carried out? I have a little need to get the Minister to confirm that it is sport itself that has the finger on the pulse and the opportunity to act, because otherwise we will easily end up in this situation again, that sport should end up in pocket money, and that is not wise.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504162524	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504162527	I believe it should be sport, and I think it is with the legislative changes that we are making. But it will then be a free market, so you can say that if you do not actively go in and act in that market, you run the risk of some other players coming in. As I understand it at Danske Games, this liberalisation that they welcome means that Danske Games will intensify their stake on horse racing, because they can gain a competitive advantage when other players enter the market, and the competition and additional activity can lead to more sport and more money being taken back. So there should be freedom for sport to act within the regulatory framework that we are setting up here, and if there is a need to look at adjusting it by year, I will certainly take a positive view of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504162617	Thank you, Minister. There are no more questions. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504162636	I was prepared to say that the first rapporteur is stuck in traffic, but now I see that Mr. Rasmus Prehn has appeared in the hall. Should we take the next rapporteur first, so that the rapporteur is allowed to land? Or does the rapporteur want to get up? Thank you. We're starting in the right order, but thank you, sir. Kim Christiansen to be ready. The first rapporteur is then Mr. Rasmus Prehn, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504162726	Thank you very much to the President-in-Office for his flexibility. It is true that I was just a little challenged by the fact that I thought the previous debate took a little longer than it did. That's why I was a little tense. The proposal here today is something we have been looking forward to for a long time. Nor is there any doubt that the Association Elders Sagen, Trade Union Seniers and other associations that organise and mobilise older people in Denmark have for a long time been doing a fine and strenuous job to point out that there is something unfair and inappropriate in that one partout, because one turns 75 years old, has to go to a medical check to have your driving licence extended. It's an unnecessary expense. It is a form of discrimination against people who have a certain age because we can see that there is no direct link between the ageing of the population and the danger to someone in traffic. There have been several studies in this area. Back in 2002, I think it was, DTU did a major investigation in this area. So this is not the case, so you can see a direct link between the ageing of people and the fact that there are more accidents in traffic. If we look at our neighbouring country, Sweden, which we know is among those who are best placed to do so safely in traffic, they do not actually have any rules to go through what is called, with a little artificial expression, compulsory screening of the elderly. That is not the case in Sweden, but they have no more accidents than we have in Denmark. In fact, what we can see in Denmark is that the vast majority of road accidents are therefore among young drivers. So there is no basis for saying that it is the elderly who are at risk in traffic. Therefore, it makes good sense to continue the change in this area that Social Democracy actually helped to start back in 2015, when we raised the age limit from 70 to 75 years. Now that we can see that this has happened quite unproblematicly, we take the full step and go there, we change it so you should not have any particular check because you have a certain age. On the other hand, it is up to the general practitioner to keep an eye on patients at all times. So it may be that at a younger age you also go where, because of illness, you are not fit to drive a car anymore. So it's the doctor's job to intervene in this area. It is a more appropriate, more reasonable system which does not mean that, because you are 75 years old, you must be discriminated against by having to go to the doctor and pay money to have your driving licence renewed. It has been a somewhat unreasonable suspicion of fresh, healthy, bodily, older people. And it has also been something that there was no research evidence to hold on to. So much praise to the former Minister for Transport, Mr. Hans Christian Schmidt to put turbo on this work and make sure it was included in the legislative programme. I would also like to thank the new Minister for continuing this work. I sense that there is relatively broad support in the Folketing to move this further. It should be pointed out that this is therefore legislation for driving licences for ordinary cars. When it comes to buses and trucks, where there is a lot more at stake, we have not opened up for this. That is where the current rules are maintained. I understand that it is proposed that this new law should enter into force per year. July 1st this year. So there are probably some people sitting at home behind the television screen watching this and saying: we look forward to it. It is therefore gratifying when such a great and active effort is being made by, among others. older citizens bear fruit and we get it changed and we can listen here at Christiansborg. So we welcome that from the Socialist side.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504163158	There is one more brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504163204	Is there no concern whatsoever in the Social Democratic Party about this bill, which completely abolishes the age limit? I am also thinking of the fact that this has been on the agenda on several occasions, and if we go back to December 2013, when a resolution was tabled, I can at least remember that the Socialist side was sceptical. It was a government led by the Social Democratic Party that set up a working group which came up with some conclusions which clearly said that it was not a good idea or rather, they formulated it positively, namely that it was appropriate to maintain an age limit for many of the reasons set out in the working group's report. Social democracy has been on a journey here, as I see it. After all, there is a damn difference between raising an age limit, as we did a few years ago, from 70 years to 75 years, or abolishing the age limit altogether, as we are doing now.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504163317	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504163321	There is no doubt that we Social Democrats are very concerned about strengthening road safety, and if anything can be seen as a weakening of road safety, we must be wary of whether it is the right thing to do now. We helped to support the change that occurred back in 2015, when the age limit was raised. I guess we were a little hesitant and a little cautious. Now it has been working for some years and it seems to be working without having any negative impact on road safety. We've also had the opportunity to get to know this material, which makes an impression, because you could also start arguing that there are other diseases that are more likely to occur when you are 55 years old. Should you be screened for diabetes when you are 55 years old and then risk losing your driver's license because of it? It must be up to the doctor to keep an eye on his patients and to tell him or her, as a doctor, if he or she feels that there is a health aspect that makes him or her not to continue driving. It is in this way that we should have done something about it. We should be aware that the latest inventory shows that out of those that have been examined through this age screening, only 1.4%, I think, have been denied their driving licences, so not many have been sorted out in this area. That is why we are reasonably confident about this, but we want to follow the area, and I am also sure that Mr Enhedslisten's. Henning Hyllested will know to be on the marks if unfortunate tendencies should appear.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504163511	I would just like to draw your attention to the rules on speaking time. Then it is the questioner of the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504163514	As to whether there could be other diseases, the Enhedslisten has proposed in each of these debates that there should be a medical check on each renewal of the driving licence, that is, every 15 years, and that is precisely to have an independent view of it, if I may say so, and to seize if there are other diseases, an overuse of medicine, and what do I know? However, when the rapporteur says that this seems to be working, it is actually one of the things we do not quite know. And if you read, for example... The consultation answer from the Council for Safe Transport is, of course, one of the points they make. You think there is some haste here because we have not actually collected and evaluated the experience of increasing the age limit from 70 years to 75 years. Now, if I may put it that way, you are going to go all the way and abolish the age limit, and that is without really knowing where we are in this game.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504163608	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504163613	I think it makes an impression that we can see that many of the countries that do not have mandatory age screening do not have a higher accident statistics than we do in Denmark. The consultation responses given, among other things: from the Council on Safe Transport, we must take it seriously, and I also think that we can discuss in the Committee on Transport, Building and Housing whether we should include some elements in a possible report, pointing out the points of interest that we are going to examine on a regular basis. I would like to take part in this because, like Mr. Enhedslisten's, Henning Hyllested, we Social Democrats are very concerned about security. It is the case that a great deal of experience shows that the people who, for example, are. Dementia itself chooses to leave the car. The doctor does not need to intervene against this. But we must, of course, pay attention to it. Moreover, we also see a very creepy tendency towards younger people being affected by dementia, and there it could be that the doctor has to be different up to the top. That is also one of the things we could put forward in connection with a report's contribution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504163727	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments right now. We will continue to speak, and I would like to sign for Mr. Kim Christiansen's flexibility if it had been the case that the other rapporteur should have been there first. So thank you for that. But now, sir... Kim Christiansen rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504163748	Thank you for that and it was definitely not a waste of time. Then I was given the opportunity to hear the Socialist rapporteur, and that is always inspiring. In the Danish People's Party we think it is rather a joyous day that we can now decide, together with a fairly large majority, that we remove this age discrimination, after which older people over 75 years of age have had to go to regular medical examinations. This has been a major cost to the elderly and the figures of 1.4 per cent. Well, at least Mr. Rasmus Prehn mentioned that it is a very large and expensive device that is being set in motion, and one, we think at least, unnecessary measure against older people in relation to the number actually screened in this system. A large part will probably be caught in connection with prescription printing, regular medical checks etc., where the doctor then has a duty to say: You know what, now I think you've been driving the car you're going to, in this life. We hope, of course, that doctors will live up to that responsibility, but also that the elderly themselves will take responsibility now. This also applies to relatives, if they can see that there may be some changes in a person's life that make it time to stop driving. I hope so. As the previous rapporteur also mentioned, the age limit here is not being removed in relation to the driving of lorries, buses and commercial vehicles. There I would just like to make a small comment: hopefully there will soon be a new taxi law. There we have removed the driving licence, but another professional test is being carried out, and I would like to call at least for taxi drivers who are driving with other people to be allowed to drive under the old rules with an age limit of 70 years. Then you can say with a glimpse in your eye that when the government keeps saying that we have to work longer, it is nice that you may also have a car in which you can carry yourself to work. That's said with a smile on your lips. We think that this is a very good proposal and we are quite confident in implementing it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504164004	Mr President, there is one brief comment. Henning Hylllested. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504164009	I also think it makes sense that older people too can carry their way around by car. It should only be done safely and securely, and I do not believe that the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party and I disagree on that either. But is there no doubt at all about this in the Danish People's Party? As I said to the Socialist rapporteur before, there is a very big difference between raising an age limit, for example. because the lifespan of the population is increasing and then completely abolishing the age limit. This basically means that there will be a lot of driving licences, if I may say so, around the old homes, which can then be activated, because there may not be the consideration of the elderly themselves, which is being forced to do, if you are going to a medical check, because here you are simply forced to consider whether you can now drive a car and whether it is really safe to keep doing so.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504164113	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504164117	I don't know if I'm supposed to understand that in that way, sir. Henning Hyllested believes that if someone maybe 10 years ago has given up driving and then in the meantime has been 82 years old, then they will find the driver's license out of the drawer again. I don't really think it's gonna work that way. At any rate, I believe that there are some administrative issues which make it impossible to do so. Like I said, we're pretty safe about this. There is no doubt that when you age, many things change too. The reaction may slow down a little, but I would venture to say that a 25-year-old driver who thinks he is immortal is much more dangerous to road safety than an elderly person who drives according to conditions and abilities.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504164158	The second brief remark is the questioner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504164201	Yes, but it is also a fact that the elderly are more frequent in accident statistics than, what is to be said, the middle group. It is true that, if we compare it with the young people who drive, there is a considerable difference. But it may also have something to do with the fact that, because of the age-related health check, there is actually a separation, both because some choose it themselves, but also at the medical check itself. There you get a separation, and those who remain are, in fact, the best drivers and the freshest, i.e. fresh, physically fresh, etc. etc. They are the ones who are left, while they are not driving in the dark, do not drive in the slippery lane, do not drive far and do not drive when there is rush hour, where traffic is complicated, etc. etc. This was also some of what the DTU study showed at the time, and it may have something to do with the fact that they do not appear so frequently in accident statistics.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504164256	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504164300	Yeah, that's right, but I think older people are adjusting it. As Mr. Henning Hyllested is talking about, you may not be driving into Copenhagen right in rush hour, because it may well be that you think it goes just a little fast around you, but I would also like to say that I can mention many young drivers who also have such a village licence or a summer driving licence, as I usually call it, who are a little sad to drive in slippery driving or to drive in the city with all the traffic there is. So I think that actually extends to a very wide range of aspects such as age. This has a lot to do with how experienced and safe you feel, and fortunately we can be glad that some people choose to drive outside rush hour.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504164339	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief remarks, so we will continue in the series of speeches. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Hans Christian Schmidt, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504164350	Thank you for that, and I should like to begin by thanking the Social Democrats' rapporteur for his commendation. Rasmus Prehn. In fact, I think we can all welcome the fact that we are here today and now we have to deal with the proposal which has been going on for a long time. We have held many meetings, prepared a great deal, and I also remember when we were supposed to have it on the legislative programme almost 8, 9, 10 months ago. So it is really something that has taken a long time, but it is also something that has filled a lot in the Folketing over the years, and that is why I think we are on a landmark day today, when we finally have these rules repealed, which, in my opinion, are discriminatory. Bill L 201, which we are debating today, must help to change the traffic law so that people over 75 years of age no longer have to have their driving licences renewed more often than the other age groups, because that is where the whole discrimination lies or which the bill may refer to as the group over 75 older people. The draft law seeks to abolish the rules on the validity of driving licences for the elderly. We want to make it easier for the elderly to have a driving licence, and we are complying with that with the bill today. Now that we want to make it easier for older citizens to have a driving licence, it must of course be without compromising on road safety, and I would also like to make that clear on behalf of the Left. The draft law puts an end to the so-called age screenings which the current rules require every time a driving licence is to be renewed, and we put an end to the view that just because you are up in the years, you cannot drive because, with age, you should become mentally and physically weakened and therefore pose a danger to road safety. Not only do we believe that we should put an end to this view of the elderly, but research also supports that view and there is no scientific evidence that older drivers should pose a greater threat to road safety than other age groups. We believe that doctors can assess in the future whether a given elderly person is a danger to road safety. At least I have full confidence in that, and then there is a personal responsibility which also means that we are still ensuring road safety without compulsory medical checks. Not only, I think, may it seem somewhat discriminatory, but there is also the choice to question the ability and capacity of this age group simply because they have reached a certain age, and that is also a great additional cost that we are imposing on that group of citizens. I remember myself being very surprised when I asked how much expenditure we basically talked about, which is estimated to cost between 100 and 150 million. kr. for the elderly in medical checks, and I believe that this is absolutely unnecessary. We on the Left have been proposing for several years that we should remove the age limit for the compulsory medical check on the renewal of driving licences by older people, and that is why, as I said at the outset, I am particularly pleased, when we are here at first reading today, that all in all the legislation is helping to put an end to the bureaucracy and the trouble that it has been for the elderly when they have had to renew their driving licences. I would just like to say, as I have said, that I think we can all welcome it, and I also hope that it will end up with everyone supporting it. I really think that this is the kind of proposal that sends out the right objective signal, namely that it is a question of how to drive a car, more than it is a question of what age you are. With that said, the Left naturally supports the proposal. I also welcome the Conservatives, who unfortunately could not be here, and say that they also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504164731	Thank you. There is one more brief comment. Sir. Henning Hylllested, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504164736	Recognizes Mr. Hans Christian Schmidt, that there is a significant difference between raising an age limit for which we did at the time from 70 years to 75 years justified, and that can be many good reasons, but above all, in the population's ageing age, and then completely abolishing the age limit, because that is one of the reasons why. I would also like to point out that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances and preparations is a step in the right direction. With the knowledge we have, that age decline occurs yes, with age but also at an increasing rate, and the older we get, the more we get there, but still there is a driving licence that can be used in need and pressure if it is so.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504164828	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504164829	Yes, I recognise that there is a significant difference, precisely that, with the change we made last time, we were still bothering a lot of older people with something that I think is superfluous. So, yes, it's a big difference, but it's a happy difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504164845	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504164849	The rapporteur has no doubt for a moment that, in spite of everything, with what I mentioned in my first question, this will mean that older people will increasingly be on the road as drivers who should not be there.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504164909	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504164910	No.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504164916	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments right now and we have noted that the rapporteur also spoke on behalf of the Conservative People's Party. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504164935	Then came the bill to completely abolish the age limit for medical screening in connection with a renewal of driving licences. I think it has actually gone very fast. Sir. Hans Christian Schmidt said that it had been dragging on for a long time, but I really think it has gone very fast. I am thinking of the fact that in December 2013 motion for a resolution No. B 31 is proposed to raise the age limit, and in November 2014 Bill No. L 69, which should then state that the age limit was raised from 70 years to 75 years. It was adopted in February 2015. And now in 2017 we are standing in 2017 after all it is within 3-4 years with a bill that completely abolishes the age limit. As we all know, the Enhedslisten has been against this development all the way through, and of course we are against it for road safety reasons. One might also, I think, ask oneself what news there is since Bill No. L 69 was tabled and adopted, that is to say, that at that time we raised the age limit to 75 years. I don't think there's anything new. And perhaps I think in particular that the report presented by the working group set up by the former Socialist Government speaks for itself. When you go through it, you see that it is very much on the one hand and on the other, because of course there are arguments for one and the other. But it also concludes that there should be a fixed age limit. I have not, in fact, disputed anywhere from the point of view that this should be sensible. So the bill completely ignores that recommendation, despite the fact that it is only a few years old. The recommendation is based on the fact that there actually is someone, yes, you call it in a strange word for self-selection.That's what you do among the elderly, that is, that many older people, when they get to the medical check that at 75 years of age, choose to say that okay, I don't know, and I'm no longer in a position to drive a car safely. And then the medical check itself actually picks up a number of older people who do not meet the requirements. These are the mechanisms I mentioned a little in my questions, which means that it is only the best physically and mentally that remain among the older drivers on the roads. Of course, it also provides better accident statistics. They are very careful, they don't run in the dark, they don't run in the smooth lead, they don't run long trips, they don't run during rush hour. And it can actually be taken into account that it is not completely safe drivers, but it does of course mean that they do not appear so often in accident statistics. I would like to point out that the medical check has not been introduced to take the driving licence from people. You can almost get the impression of this, especially when you get inquiries from the Elders Case and from Danish Seniors and Professional Seniors, and what they are all called. But it has been introduced for road safety reasons. We therefore believe that, precisely by abolishing the age limit completely, control and self-selection are being abolished in relation to the ageing which is essential. That means, as I said, that many driving licences, which would otherwise not be renewed, will now be able to be activated, let us just call it that. I think there are some very important consultation responses. The Medical Association warns and argues with the general weakening of age of mental nature and physical fitness, and they also refer to a German study. Germany and Sweden have filled a lot in the debate. However, reference is made to a German study which says that by the 75th year there is an increase in self-caused accidents among older drivers. The Council for Safe Transport is concerned and is very much concerned about the Swedish system and believes that it can explain that it is debating whether to return, in other words to do as we do in Denmark today. And they also call for an examination of the current rules before taking action to abolish the age limit. What has it meant that we raised the age limit from 70 years to 75 years? The National Police are asking for a medical opinion, and it can be said that they have received it if they read the Medical Association's hearing response. Even if the National Police are on the side of the Medical Association in that game, I don't know. In the past, the National Police have been very sceptical about these measures in these treatments of age limits. And the Danish Driver's Teacher Union says directly, based on experience from the members, that it will reduce road safety on the Danish roads, briefly and well. I think it is many years of lobbying that the Socialist rapporteur referred to what appears to have now pushed the parties under inter alia. warrior war cry that this is age discrimination. But you weaken with age, I should just say hello. I'm 63 years old myself, and I'm not as good a driver as I was 15 years ago. I don't have the same hearing. I don't have the same vision. And I don't have the same reaction. I think you might want to think about that. At least we in the Enhedslist are very seriously concerned about road safety in relation to this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504165501	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we will continue in the rapporteur's line. I see the next one is Mrs. Christina Egelund, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504165518	Thank you. It's true that I'm here instead of sir. Villum Christensen, who could not be present. General age screening is currently carried out in such a way that all drivers over the age of 73 are issued driving licences with a shorter period of validity than the normal 15 years. This means, among other things, that.a. these elderly must undergo a health check at each renewal. The reason for the general age screening is to intercept the elderly, who are so bad that they should no longer drive. Research in this area shows, however, that it does not have a positive impact on road safety and that screening only in very few cases leads to the fact that the elderly do not actually have their driving licences renewed. When you hold up the fact that the age screening is intrusive for the individual, both financially and personally, it makes great sense to remove the upper age limit of 75 years. And I really think that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party said this very well when he said that this bill removes unfair discrimination against the elderly. The Liberal Alliance can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504165623	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we will take the next rapporteur, Mr President. Roger Matthisen as rapporteur for the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504165634	Thank you for that, President. The draft law here, L 201, proposes to abolish the upper age limit of 75 years for the general period of validity of driving licences for the so-called Group 1 vehicles. I think that the draft law has been very well examined by the previous rapporteurs, so I will not go into that much in depth. I would just like to point out that in our neighbouring countries Sweden and Germany are doing quite well without having a potentially discriminatory practice against older citizens. So the alternative can clearly support around recognising that we are now getting older and older and living in other ways than 50 years ago. In fact, I will also draw a parallel to our treatment of L 62 in autumn, or in winter, when the hearing requirement for drivers was lifted. There we took up legislation from 1918, I think it was, and it was about those who have no impaired hearing, whatever the reason, of course should not be discriminated against in traffic, as we do not require ordinary drivers of vehicles to put down their headphones or otherwise ensure that their hearing is not affected. So, just as the discriminatory practice should be seen, the alternative is that we should do the same with this bill. We are therefore in agreement. Those were the words. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504165817	Thank you, and there is one for a brief remark. Sir. Henning Hylllested, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504165821	It is because the rapporteur mentioned that our neighbouring countries are doing just fine. I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur is aware that, in his very, very comprehensive consultation answer, the Medical Association refers to a German study, which I also mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, and it shows that from the 75th year, then, there are several older drivers in accident statistics in what are called self-caused accidents. And the same applies to the consultation response from the Council for Safe Transport, which in fact poses problems and refers to the fact that in Sweden today there is a discussion of the way in which it is done in Sweden. With regard to the long-term issue, I should like to ask whether the rapporteur is aware that in the report drawn up by the former Social Democratic Government at the time, it is clear, and we all know this, that there is a huge difference between what groups in society have greatly increased their lifespan and who do not. There are very, very large differences there, and therefore the report warns against seeing the population under one in this game, in other words, in relation to having a fixed age limit or completely abolishing it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504165939	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504165940	Thank you. When it comes to seeing the people under one, we could almost enter into a discussion about whether it would be geographical discrimination, so to speak, to recognise that a man on Lolland lives 12 years shorter than a man in Gentofte or North Zealand. That is something I would like to address in the discussion of the report on rural areas. However, I recognise that we must, of course, ensure that our doctors have this enhanced supervision in relation to our older citizens, and I also recognise that we are becoming weaker in relation to our senses and motor skills. But I still do not think it is right to have this practice to discriminate over a comb from an age.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504170029	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504170034	But precisely because of these differences between the population and this is really the case, whether geographical, labour or social, it is surely not a complete lifting of the age limit. I guess it makes sense to have somewhere where people, if I may say so, knock into a medical check. And that is no matter where you live in the country or which social group you belong to, etc. etc. Then there would be some kind of objective view of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504170108	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504170109	I think that we should have more confidence in our citizens and in the doctors doing their job. And we must also have confidence that the families of these elderly citizens can also say if they think that their parents or someone in their family are unable to drive. DTU has shown that there is no direct link between old age and this over-representation of accidents. And we know that it is only 1.4 per cent that have been denied their driving licences, so I think that when we look at the facts, we have to let them weigh more heavily than having some emotional attitude towards getting older, and then you are weaker. That is not true in all cases. I must also remind the rapporteur that the Enhedslisten himself voted in favour of the fact that in this area of legislation, that is to say, in relation to L 62, we should not discriminate against hearing impaired people.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504170203	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments right now. The next speaker is rapporteur for the Radical Left, sir. Andreas Steenberg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504170211	Thank you. Unfortunately, older drivers are involved in more accidents than other drivers. The Council of Safe Transport states in their consultation answer that drivers in the late 1970s and early 1980s are in two and a half times as many accidents as people in the 1950s. Two and a half times as many. The Maritime Commission, which looks at accidents in Denmark, indicates in their consultation answer that it is evident that older drivers are particularly involved in accidents. With their professional skills, the Medical Association also reviews why older people can be worse in traffic. So there is a problem, as you see when you look at the consultation answers, which are reasonably well documented. Then there is a report from DTU, the Technical University of Denmark, which says that there is no evidence that this test has any effect. I think we should go back in and look at the Council for Safe Transport's hearing response. They say something interesting. They say that you don't really know how many people have had their driving licences taken from these tests. There are some figures from South Jutland from 2002, i.e. 15 years old figures from one part of the country, a few figures. But otherwise you don't actually know how many people got their driver's licenses by coming to this test. You also don't know who voluntarily stopped driving after talking to the doctor or talking to relatives when they were going to this test. You don't know that. That is why I would just like to quote the Council for Safe Transport, which says that it might well be that you should examine the facts and have a factual basis for what exactly the effect was before you take a position on this. I think you could have spent your time figuring that out. One could, for example: ask the doctors what's come out of these tests. So we could be involved in discussing whether to have another test, whether it needs to be every year for the 80-year-olds. You could discuss a lot of things. We also agreed to raise the limit to 75 years instead of 70 years, but we think we should really listen to the Council for Safe Transport and try to find out what the effect has really been of the tests that have been carried out in Denmark. I think that could have been bothered before this bill was tabled. That is why we are voting against it as it stands here. We think that, regardless of what might be done, what has come out of these tests that have been carried out since the 1950s. After all, a lot of money and time have been spent on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504170456	Thank you to the rapporteur, to whom I see no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Karsten Hønge, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504170507	If we are to do something about road safety when issuing driving licences, we should perhaps decide to send the young men between today 17 and 25 years of age through some extra checks. SF doesn't suggest that. But an age limit for keeping your driver's licence will hear, if I may say so, old times. Our seniors are actually really okay drivers, and they are also able to look critically at themselves. Of course, some people may become so weakened by old age that they can no longer drive a car. But all the evidence suggests that, in turn, they have a very strong conscience and therefore, by themselves, possibly after conversation with the family, the car will drop. Our conclusion is that older citizens are both okay drivers and responsible citizens of society. Physical impairments and mental decay are not something that only affects older people. I see examples of this on a daily basis. I look into the hall without, however, having consequences for the right to drive a car. Against this background, the SF can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504170638	Thank you. There is one more brief comment. Sir. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504170643	In order not to ask the same question and in the same way, I would like to ask Mr. Karsten Hønge: Don't impress Mr. Karsten Hønge?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504170659	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504170700	Yeah, it does, and both sir. Henning Hyllested's rapporteur's speech and a great many questions. Of course. What we end up with is a balance between the risks involved and the consequences. Well, is there a reasonable proportion of that? That's where we're going to say we don't think it's here. Perhaps one could imagine that we did not have an age limit, but that there was a motion for a resolution to introduce it. Will the basis and the consultation answers we have be strong enough for me to introduce an age limit? I don't think so. But, of course, it makes an impression, because it is not unproblematic, as well as I do not think it is particularly unproblematic, that young men may also sometimes have a somewhat distorted relationship with the assessment of their own abilities and the car's performance in terms of how they drive. Nor does it mean that we are taking action against them in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504170758	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504170800	But it is true that the arguments that can be for and against must be weighed down. That is what I said in my rapporteur's speech. And that is exactly what the report which was made at the time is only 2 years old does, it balances the arguments with each other and ends up stating that, in the opinion of the working group, there is a need to have a fixed age limit, but now you are abolishing it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504170830	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504170832	I simply do not think that there is any reasonable assessment of whether there is a need for a fixed age limit, precisely in relation to how different we live our lives, where we live, how much experience we have in driving. No, should there be a fixed age limit, I actually think it would be appropriate to call in all 17-25-year-old men for annual conversations where they face the fragility of their own life and the limitations of the car.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504170857	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, so the next speaker is the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504170907	First of all, I would like to thank seven out of nine rapporteurs for a positive reception of the draft law, and I would also like to thank the last two for having taken on the role of the devil's lawyer in this matter. As a journalist, I know that it is also important to ask questions on quite obvious matters, so that there is an opportunity to argue on the matter, and there is Mr. Henning Hylllested and Mr. Andreas Steenberg played the devil's lawyer here, and that's really good. Even a criminal is also entitled to a defence lawyer, you might say, and a bad law may also have the right to defence lawyers here in the Folketing. The aim of the bill is to make it easier for older people in Denmark to have a driving licence without compromising road safety. As the rules are today, all driving licences are issued to older people over 73 years of age with a shorter period of validity than the normal 15 years. This shorter period of validity requires the elderly to renew driving licences more frequently than other age groups, and they must undergo medical screening for each renewal. This general age screening is carried out to intercept the elderly who should no longer drive, for example due to dementia. However, a review of the large amount of research in this area shows that there is no evidence that this age screening has a positive impact on road safety, and screening only for very few older people means that driving licences are not renewed. On the other hand, screening is very burdensome for the elderly, which are estimated to cost between 100 million. kr. and 150 million kr. each year for renewal. In addition, for many of the elderly, the screening is seen as being offensive to those who are fresh enough to continue driving and those who know when it is time to stop driving. The screening system has also shown in several cases a negative impact on the road safety of older people, as more elderly people stop driving before they need it because they do not want to try to renew their driving licence. Instead, older people become vulnerable road users, such as pedestrians or cyclists, where older people are a particularly vulnerable group. Against this background, I do not believe that it is still sensible to maintain a system in which older people have to renew driving licences more often than others. On the other hand, as they do today, doctors need to sharpen their attention to the elderly, who should not continue driving. I therefore propose that we remove the rules of the Road Traffic Code that driving licences for the elderly over 75 years are issued for a shorter period of validity. I also propose that the authority to allow the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing to lay down rules whereby driving licences for the elderly over 73 years may be issued for a shorter period of validity should be abolished. I look forward to further consideration here in the Folketing, and I am of course available to answer any questions that may arise in this regard. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504171230	Thank you, Minister. A brief comment has just been made here, and it is from Mr. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504171237	The minister mentions this amount, it costs the elderly to go through this medical check, and it's clear that when you mention the total amount of 150 million. kr., it sounds like a lot. That's a lot of money, and I admit it, and I have also sensed that in many of the hearings we have received from the Elders Case, Danske Senierer, and what they say is that it is an essential element of the argument, that is to say that you have to pay for this medical check, and that is between DKK 350. and 800 kroner, depending on what a doctor you have. There you could imagine setting out some sort of standard amount so that it would not be so expensive. And then you could turn it around and say, "Oh, yes, if you can afford to have a car, you can afford to go through a medical check and pay for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504171331	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504171333	But the important thing here is not whether the amount is 200 kroner. or 500 kroner.; I just mention, for the sake of good order, that it is relatively expensive. For me, it is important that we burden a very large group of elderly people with the lack of authority; it is that we tell them that they should be tested, even if there is no need to test these very elderly people, and that we impose a cost on them to get the licence and medical certificate renewed when only a small group of elderly people is in fact a problem. I have the very general principle of all legislation that it should hit as narrowly as possible. This legislation shoots with dispersal, and that is why I think it is much better for us to impress on doctors that they should focus on the elderly who actually have problems driving, instead of burdening all elderly people when we know that it is a very small part of the elderly who are caught in these screenings and who are therefore no longer allowed to drive a car.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504171436	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. Henning Hylllested Jo, I got in. I mean, the lamp lit green too. ) Okay, it's so slipped up here, but here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504171450	One could easily discuss, and I think that is quite all right, that the screening that is taking place was organised in a different way. Perhaps it could also be carried out by, if I may say so, independent persons. However, one has heard of the problem before and that in many cases his own doctor may not really be an objective person. But this is also due to the fact that the group of elderly people is a very, very broad group which covers all aspects of the composition of the population, and that is why I think we can argue that we have to shoot with what the Minister calls dispersal hail.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504171535	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504171537	The problem is that this screening method just doesn't work. Speaking of dementia, dementia can go really, really fast. If you are 77 years old and so have to be tested every two years, can a dementia disease develop very dramatically within a month or two, and what good is it then that we have screening a year and a half later? It does not catch the dementia that develops within a few months. And that may also be why when we compare Denmark with other countries and these other countries do not have screening of the elderly, we find that the elderly in those countries are not involved in more accidents than the elderly are in Denmark where we have screening. So apparently the screening has no effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504171626	Thank you, Minister. Now there are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Transport, Building and Housing Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504171647	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Troels Ravn, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504171704	First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for taking the initiative in this debate on the statement. This is a good and much needed opportunity to highlight some of the challenges facing our rural areas. Fortunately, we are experiencing positive developments in several parts of the country, as the Minister also mentioned in his written statement, but we are far from achieving it. There are still too many places where they are experiencing a decline in the population, have high unemployment rates and where a large proportion of citizens are on cash benefits and early retirement. Many feel that they are coupled by developments. It may be the local doctor, primary school or supermarket that is closed or moved. However, I would like to start by recognising some of the initiatives taken by the government. This applies, for example, to the relocation of state jobs, the agreement between the parties of the Danish Parliament to ensure better medical coverage throughout the country and cheaper ferry tariffs, although we are not in line with the promises made before the elections, about the introduction of the full road model. However, these are good proposals that the Social Democrats support because they help to move in the right direction in order to ensure a better balance for a country. But that is only one side of history, because history also includes the fact that when the government conducts economic distribution policies, it is unfortunately all too often in the wrong direction. It is not only social but also geographical. This is true when it comes to distributing money. We know that the Government's desire for top tax concessions will benefit the municipalities of Northern Zealand in particular, while rural areas are being neglected. For example, a citizen of Hørsholm with the government's previous 2025 plan would receive a top tax relief of DKK 2,500. a year, while the top tax relief on Langeland would be only 40 DKK. We would also have seen the same picture with housing taxation if the Social Democrats had not succeeded in introducing the so-called millionaire knuckle. But it is not only when it comes to distributing money that there are challenges, because the government's savings knife often hits rural areas. This applies, among other things, to: the annual savings in education, which hit the education institutions in the province and rural areas particularly hard, because they have smaller teams and educational institutions that are particularly vulnerable to cuts. And LAG funds, which otherwise contribute to growth and development and employment in rural areas, are cut by one third. Then there is the cash aid ceiling that hits municipalities in rural areas with many on transfer income, such as Lolland Municipality, really hard. The municipality even finds that several cash benefits recipients move to the municipality as a result of the ceiling on cash benefits in order to obtain a cheaper accommodation. There are many of us who believe that the new ceiling on cash benefits is giving impetus to a development in which cash benefits recipients are looking for outlying areas where it is already difficult to find jobs. It is a source of inequality in economic and geographical terms. The population's settlement patterns are changing and inequality is increasing. Instead of getting jobs, there will be cash benefits recipients. For example, there is Lolland, who peaked the list of municipalities with the most citizens on cash benefits in 2014. It shows figures from Danmarks Statistik. In 1990 Lolland looked like an average municipality in terms of population composition, but high housing prices in the metropolitan area have led many citizens on the edge or outside the labour market to pack the moving boxes to settle on the island. It is a development which simply reinforces the ceiling on cash benefits. In addition, the government continues to oppose the Togfonden DK, which otherwise aims to bind the whole country together, just as the government has tried to tighten the ground for new offshore wind turbines, even if it would have cost private jobs in rural areas. It is therefore surprising that none of the so-called outermost municipalities received funding from the broadband pool in 2016, while projects in Greater Copenhagen have been supported in return. We assumed otherwise that the purpose of the pool was to support rural areas with poor broadband coverage. Last month it emerged that no meetings of the Government's Advisory Committee on Rural Development have been held since the change of government. Both the Rural Councils, Agriculture & Food, the Free Air Council and the Cooperative Merchants are among the represented. The examples I have mentioned here, which help to pull the country off the ground, show that the government could well use a few good advices. My advice to the government must therefore be that a meeting should be convened as soon as possible and that organizations should be consulted on the policy pursued. We need to create a better-balanced country. We need to restore security, development and cohesion throughout the country. On the social democratic side, we have therefore proposed the following initiatives to create balance and growth throughout Denmark: the relocation of state jobs must be completed and new relocation opportunities must be assessed on an ongoing basis. Specifically, we will strengthen the SKAT with 1,000 additional employees in four tax centres outside the major cities. We suggest that two are located in Jutland, one is located on Funen and one is located on Zealand and Lolland-Falster. Together with SF, we have pointed to an experiment with local service centres with functions such as job center, library, community service, medical delivery and health clinics, which must be open for a few days a week because it can help restore local welfare services. We maintain our ambition for the Train Fund DK, which binds the country together and upgrades 11 regional sections. With our latest growth initiative, we propose that the Growth Fund be strengthened by 5 billion. kr., so as to improve access to risk capital for small and medium-sized enterprises. This will benefit rural businesses in particular. Finally, we must ensure education throughout Denmark by giving unskilled people a training boost and canceling the government's planned savings on vocational training. Many people find that the distance between country and city has increased, but Denmark is too small a country for big differences. We therefore hope that, in future, we in the Danish Parliament can agree to remedy the imbalances that have arisen between the country and the city in recent years. Indeed, there is a great potential for growth and employment in our rural areas. That potential must be provided with the right political initiatives and in cooperation with all the people and fire-souls living in rural areas, the people who are passionate about their territories and have the resources to lift them. We must act, and we must not slow down. Let me give you a current example where the government should be careful not to sit on its hands, but should be more active. Maabjerg Energy Concept will be the first in Denmark to establish full-scale production in Holstebro of second generation bioaetanol based on straw, and more than 2 billion will be invested. kr. in the project, which has already been promised 293 million. kr. Union support. It is estimated that the project here can create 1,000 jobs in Holstebro and throughout northwest Jutland. In order to get started, the political framework is lacking, and here is where the government is slowing down. We in the Social Democratic Party have pressed for progress on the project and, above all, the creation of the many jobs, and now it is up to the government to clarify what specific conditions should be laid down. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504172558	Enjoy your meal and thank you. There are no brief comments, so we will continue in the rapporteur's line, and the next speaker is Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504172615	Thank you. After all, I look forward every year to the government's rural policy statement coming, because it is nice to see the temperature taken in rural areas, both how it looks with employment, with age, with relocation, relocation, with tourism and, of course, not least the small islands. It is so good that we have now been liberalised the planning law so that we no longer have to make criminals just because we plant a mound in our garden or because we choose to expand our terrace. And how good it was that there was a move in relation to relocating government jobs. It was a start, yes, yes, but how good it was that it was set in motion. So it will also be nice to see how the summer house sales are going to get even more excited now that you can borrow the property at 75%. as mortgage loans, where it used to be 60%, for the benefit of rural areas. This morning I just enjoyed being here in the Chamber with my good colleagues, who fortunately are also here now and who all supported the idea that it should not cost more to sail to an island than it costs to drive the same route on the road, that is, what we politicians call the road principle and which is now being extended to apply throughout the year, except in the high season. It was therefore a pleasure to see the curve over the small islands in the rural statement in relation to the decline in the population of the small islands. The basket just went down and down, but from 2016 to 2017 it's nice to see that there was a crack upwards, I'd almost say, because I look at it very optimistically. It may seem as though things are going straight ahead, so at least no more have been removed from the small islands, but I think it looks like the curve is going a little upwards, so perhaps a few more people are living in the small islands now than last year at this time. So it might well indicate that what we have done with the road principle is working. But there must also be a huge call to the government, because we are not finished yet. The islands must be treated in the same way as the rest of society, because we were supposed to have a traffic equality, and that means that it must cost the same to sail to an island as it costs to drive the same route by road. If we have to translate it directly, it does not cost anything to go on the road, nor does it cost anything to ride on the road, and when you drive a car on the road, you pay for the fuel consumption you have, you don't pay for it. Passengers in the car, and in the calculation model that is now in place, it costs passengers on the ferry, i.e. pedestrians and passengers by bicycle, and, in addition to what corresponds to fuel consumption, you also take a ground price of one twenty per cent. passenger in the car. So we are still not quite away where we can say that there is full equality, but we are fighting for that in the Danish People's Party, and we will not keep our mouths shut until we have the full transport equality of the islands. And then we have not finished moving state jobs into the country at all. We just have to bear in mind that we have 180,000 government jobs, of which 80 000 are in the Capital Region, so even if we move almost 4,000, it still looks like we have over 40 per cent. of the state jobs in the Capital Region, and many of the state jobs are jobs where one's job is that one is on the phone and sitting in front of a computer, and one can do that anywhere in the country. So we have to move many more jobs into the country. We must remember that the Danes actually live throughout Denmark, but the state lives mostly in Copenhagen, and we simply have to do so. When we are then in the process of moving state jobs into the country, the next move we have to take is that we have to move some more higher education institutions into the country. As we also see in the report, there is a shortage of young people in rural areas, and there is nothing to say about that, because young people are moving from rural areas when they need further education, because there is no possibility of further education in rural areas, and so we must give them opportunities for higher education in rural areas too, so that we can keep the skilled young people out in rural areas, even when they have to study. So the next move we have to take is in the field of education. Then we can also see that fortunately there are very many foreigners who would like to come and visit Denmark. I should like to stress that I mean the tourists. This means that the holiday rental agencies cannot match the great demand for renting a holiday home. Try to think about what it costs us, every time we in Denmark have to say no to a German, Dutch or Norwegian family who would like to rent a holiday home a week in Denmark, try to think about what it costs of money for rural areas, jobs for rural areas, every time we have to say no, because we cannot match it. Therefore, Dansk Folkeparti suggested that we should increase the base allowance for vacation rental, so that where today it is a little over 21,000 kr. was to be raised to DKK 30,000, so that the first DKK 30,000. is tax-free, because that way you could get more of those who don't use their summer house so often to think, if it shouldn't be a summer house instead. We should not forget that it is the case with summer houses that every rental summer house in Denmark generates an average of DKK 300,000. to the local area in which it is located. That's $300,000. to the merchant, to the restaurant, to the museums; it is DKK 300,000, which provides jobs in rural areas and which gives growth in rural businesses. So by increasing the base allowance for vacation rentals, so that we get even more holiday houses on the market, we can create so many jobs in rural areas. And here I would like to sign our very good business minister that he was the only one who supported the Danish People's Party at the time. Yeah, you remember your friends. I hope that it will now be the case that the Minister of Industry has influenced his government in a direction so that we can raise the base allowance for vacation rental. I can certainly see that this is about raising it, but then I just hope that we will not only raise it to DKK 26 000, which I could hear the government talking about at some point, because in this way we will not get any more summer houses on the market. It may be more favourable for those who already have a summer holiday home, but it is not 5,000 DKK that makes you say: Yes, now I'm starting to rent out my summer house. It takes more than that. So we hope that the government will be involved in making proposals to raise it to DKK 30.000, otherwise we will do it again, and if the government then proposes to raise it to DKK 40.000, we will certainly not vote against it either, because in this way we know that it provides a lot of jobs in rural areas, and that is what we need. It is nice to see that in the last few years we have come a very good way in terms of improving the conditions of those who live out there, where it is most beautiful to live, but we still have a long way to go, and in the Danish People's Party we will continue to press for rural areas to have even better conditions for growth and settlement and tourism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504173501	Thank you to the rapporteur. This gave rise to a single question. And I don't know if it's from the friends, but at least it's from Mr. Knox. Henning Hyllested, speaking now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504173508	Well, on some of the stretch, we're friends... no doubt about it. Mrs Hjermind Dencker, of course, refers to the relocation of state jobs and therefore believes that there is still enormous potential, and I would like to ask: how many jobs does Mrs Hjermind Dencker really think that it is possible to move not only from the metropolitan area but also from those, what are we to call them, regional towns, larger towns around the regions, which have also sucked a lot of jobs into themselves from the real rural areas? And does Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker imagine that the state jobs can and must be moved, if I may say so, right into rural areas? It can be said that much of the relocation that has taken place at this time has just happened to some of the major regional cities of this kind. That is not quite what I understand about outermost regions and rural areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504173603	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504173604	We can agree on that. The next time we have to get a move on the relocation of state jobs, it would be a very good idea if we also took account of those areas where fewer people live. I mean, cities with less than 10,000 inhabitants, for example. hasn't particularly benefited from the first move. But as such I do not think we can put a figure on it. I believe that there must be a balance between the country and the city, and there is nothing at all as it now seems, where the state lives most in Copenhagen. When we talk about the relocation of state jobs, I would not say, as so many of the Djøfs I have talked to in here in Copenhagen, who were very sorry to have to move, say: It is of course necessary to be in here where we are having meetings. Well, with a little good planning, you can easily plan that you go to Copenhagen 1-2 days a week and have meetings with those with whom we are going to meet. So I do not think there has to be any limitation in that way. So I am not going to quantify it, but I think we can start to take much more account of the islands at the next move. It was only Bornholm who was taken care of by this move. That is where I think we could see ourselves getting some state jobs on the other islands as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504173726	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504173727	Yes, I believe that Bornholm was accommodated with five jobs Exactly! ) When the Council of Social Affairs Vulnerables moved, it is not true that the value of this can be discussed. But it is clear that I am asking, of course, because this is a great discussion, of course, in those jobs where it, if I may say so, hits. And I think it is important, and that is one of the things I have criticised about the relocation that is that I think it was one of the things that could be criticised with the existing plan, namely that it became such a hello-something.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504173816	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504173817	Well, there you can see as an example that when NatureErhvervsstyrelsen was moving to Augustenborg at Sønderborg, they were really good at making a trip to Sønderborg for the employees so they could come down and see the area. And they also saw small village communities around Sønderborg and saw that here their children could grow up, and here they could go to school. So I think that it is also very much with the institutions that you have to relocate that they also have to take responsibility for making it attractive for employees to move out.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504173900	We can then thank the rapporteur and then move on to Mr Beazley's report. Thomas Danielsen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504173906	Thank you for that, President. It's a great time to be a rural rapporteur in the European Parliament all of a sudden, thanks to the Danish people, we have obtained a majority in the Danish Parliament that wants to promote positive rural development, and this has resulted in us spraying one bill after another for the benefit of rural areas down the ramp, which is a great thing to see too when you read the rural policy statement about how well things are now starting to go out in the province. It is nice for us who live in the province, and it is also nice for us who have a great love for the province. It is everything from better loan opportunities to more jobs that we can read about this that has been added to several good initiatives. The abolition of the PRS tax is clearly one of the initiatives that really create production jobs, while at the same time it goes hand in hand with a green transition, and the planned law, which was liberalised, has ensured that we do not force the good people who succeed in rural areas into the larger cities. The broadband pool has helped ensure positive development, and this also applies, of course, to Denmark's biggest relocation of state jobs. We could continue to list good initiatives. I would just like to welcome the fact that the statement that is now really starting to move Denmark, the whole of Denmark, in a more positive and good direction, and I think that we should all, in that sense, welcome the fact that we should all be pleased and perhaps just send a friendly thought to the Danish people, who are basically the reason why we have obtained a majority that makes it possible to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504174057	Thank you. There are questions from Mr. Troels Ravn, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504174100	Thank you. As I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, there is certainly reason to recognise some of the initiatives taken and taken by the government in cooperation with the rest of Parliament. However, there is no doubt that we are not in a position to achieve anything at all and that the government's economic policy in the field of education, for example, makes it very difficult for rural educational institutions. Nor is there any doubt that the savings on LAG funds really hurt, and let me give one example. For LAG Fanoe-Varde this means a reduction of DKK 700,000, and in 2017 there will therefore be only 1.6 million. kr. in a region where LAG funds have often been leveraged 3-4 times in terms of creating new jobs, creating new activities, new growth. And this is an area where tourism really means a great deal. My question to the rapporteur is: do not impress the rapporteur and how will the rapporteur objectively explain that LAG funds should be reduced by 30%? in an area where the money is proven to be very well spent? It is very, very difficult to find something that reaches the same level.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504174231	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504174233	Thank you for that, President. And thank you for the question. Well, these are priorities in politics and we are taking a large number of initiatives. The LAG funds that we have downgraded have been given priority elsewhere in rural areas. So it is true that we have changed priorities in relation to what has otherwise been the case, but I am delighted to see the questioner that since the former Socialist-led government sat, the number of rural legislation has increased by 120 per cent. We have gone from having a rural minister who made zero proposals to having dropped the rural minister, but that in turn we have asked all ministers to be rural ministers. All in all, more than 120 specific rural policy proposals have come forward, and that is why we are seeing the positive developments in the province now. The houses are being converted, there are better lending opportunities • all the positive initiatives that we see with private jobs, job creation, etc. These are all good initiatives that have come because of the political will to do so. So I am very pleased about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504174336	Thank you. If you want to speak again, you just have to press in, and Troels Ravn does. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504174346	I'm sorry, I actually figured I had two questions as a matter of course. But the procedure has changed, and I regret that I have not been aware of that. I understand that the rapporteur of the Left must be enthusiastic. I have also recognised in my rapporteur's speech that there are good things and that there are signs that there is also a new growth and development in rural areas, but said that we are not at all in goal and that the government really needs to be cautious in its economic policy, because it is not just social but it is also biased in relation to rural areas, and, for example, in the field of education, it really hurts. Perhaps it could also be, as the rapporteur enthusiastically tells us about all the initiatives that have given rise to growth, that it is perhaps on the basis of the economic policy of the previous government and the initiatives taken in relation to employment and it is precisely employment that is so important in rural areas and that is what we see the result of. But let me ask the rapporteur a question about cheaper ferry tariffs and this about the road model, because when the previous government, the S-led government, made these proposals, it was called unambitious, and now the bourgeois government has made proposals at exactly the same level, and we can find several quotes where the Left rapporteurs tell us that we must now aim at a full road principle. When can we look forward to it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504174517	I am always sorry to interrupt, but in addition to procedures, we also have speaking time, and perhaps the questioner could even look at his watch. So I ask the questioner to keep it a little better. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504174530	Thank you. It is the case that in the Left we are still in favour of full implementation of the road principle. The difference between the previous government and the current government is, after all, that we have provided more money for the road principle than we went to the polls. As recently as today, we have put more money into benefitting the principle of road transport than we went to the polls. The previous government spoke of the principle of road transport, but financed zero kroner for the principle of road transport. That's the difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504174559	Thank you. Then it's mr. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504174602	At any rate, I'm following up on Mr. Simpson a little bit. Troels Ravn's questioning round. For Mr. After all, Thomas Danielsen listed and this is also what we have seen from the written statement we have received the many initiatives taken to create growth, etc. in the outlying districts. But it is surely a fact that at the same time an economic policy is being pursued that moves in the other direction, an economic policy in which, of course, the municipalities are being kept in an economic grip. That's one of the things I'm talking about. This means that it is the small primary school in the village that closes only when savings are to be found, or the small nursing home, or whatever it may be. 2-pct.The savings in education mean, of course, that it is first and foremost the institutions in the outermost regions that are in danger of being closed down when it comes to saving and finding economies of scale, and I must give you, I and what they call it. So it is surely a fact that the government is pursuing an economic policy which is so moving in the other direction and making development in the outermost regions and rural areas more difficult.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504174715	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504174716	I can't confirm that. That is also why we can see that there is a very positive development. That is precisely because the rapporteur is not right in his assertion. However, the fact that you have a heart that is passionate about the province does not, of course, contradict the desire for municipalities to be run effectively.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504174729	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504174731	It may well be that the fact that we are on our way out of the crisis tells all of us that we are also very much involved in, what to say, boosting rural development. But it is surely a fact that the number of schools has been reduced, for example. public schools around, and that this has been done with reference to the harsh economic policy being pursued against the municipalities, which are forcing the municipalities to save and save. And where is it easier to save? It is, of course, in the small, small schools, the small institutions, which are, after all, equally expensive in operation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504174810	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504174811	Well, I can't confirm we had to close schools. On the contrary, we are involved in bets. We have just come up with a new school proposal which will help to promote positive development in the Danish primary schools across Denmark. After all, all the politics we make in the Left and in the government are imbued with a love for the whole of Denmark. That is what is new with the current government compared to the past, where we have seen that the capital area has been constantly given priority with state jobs, etc. New balls have been put on the soup, and I hope all parties can accept that, because that is what the people's choice is. They've chosen us to implement that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504174850	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we've just reached Mr. Henning Hylllested, who is heading up against the platform with speedy steps. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504174905	It has been a condition for many years that there has been a migration from our rural areas and outlying areas to the cities. This is, and we all know it, a global trend that we see there, but it is and remains the main problem for our rural areas, our islands and, in general, for our outermost regions. I would say that in Denmark, in particular, it was pushed up through the 00s through the very large reforms of centralisation that were adopted at the time. It was, of course, first and foremost the structural reform, which greatly reduced the number of municipalities and counties, which then became regions, reduced the number of state assemblies from 15 to 5 state administrations and centralised tax centres. In addition, the judicial reform and police reform also contributed to centralising state jobs in the larger cities. With these reforms carried out by the Left and the Conservatives and supported by the Danish People's Party, with the support of changing party constellations to the concrete proposals, the distance from citizens, especially in rural and peripheral areas, to politicians suddenly became very large. The number of elected local politicians in the city and county councils decreased dramatically and, as I said, many public jobs disappeared from the outermost regions. I therefore find it hypocritical that the very same parties, particularly in recent years, have been vying to appear as the saviors of the outskirtsdanmark, and it is not least with regard to the relocation of state jobs that we have already mentioned. But there, as in the case of the chest, it is hypocritical, in my opinion, when the truth is that we are clapping on a development which we ourselves have pushed quite violently. In addition to that, the economic iron grip, as I call it, and as I just had a discussion with Mr. Thomas Danielsen on, which the government and also granted former governments is keeping the municipalities in. However, when the savings are to be found, it is often in the small schools and other institutions in the villages and in the outskirts, and this often results in the closure of the schools. And when there is no local primary school, you cannot draw children's families, the merchant closes down, and the fire souls, which are crucial to the development and life of a village, also disappear. It is a negative downward spiral that is thereby created. It is, of course, gratifying to see that our outermost regions also benefit from the fact that we are on our way out of the crisis. In fact, the population has increased in some of the places that previously showed a fall, and employment has actually gone the same way. The Minister's statement speaks of budding optimism, but it may be bold enough to talk about it, at least it sounds very lyrical to say that rural areas and areas outside the big cities are heading for new times. Well, we'll see about that. At the same time, it must be pointed out that there are very large local differences and, in particular, in the small islands, they are continuing to struggle with declining population. In November 2015, the previous government presented its project on growth and development in the whole of Denmark containing 120 initiatives. It will, of course, be too comprehensive to deal with everything here, but in the statement that we have been given in advance, one can see what the government itself emphasizes in its priority of the project: modernisation of the law on plans, the food and agriculture package and the relocation of the almost 4 000 state jobs. In the statement, the government points out that the new opportunities must be seized, as it says, and that there is a need for the active involvement of both citizens and companies. We in the Enhedslist are very, very much in agreement with this, which is why we actually think it is a pity that the LAG effort has been cut by one third. If there is something that is citizens-driven and calls for local commitment and effort from fire souls, it is certainly LAG funds. Frankly, we find it a little petty to move about. 27 million kr. from the LAG effort to traditional agricultural production, where it is hardly possible to record in the billions of economies involved that 27 million have been added. kr. from the LAG effort. Knowing that LAG funds generate 3-4 times as much money from funds and local authorities and result in the creation of hundreds of local jobs, frankly, we think it is a little crazy to cut the economically very modest effort. In the report, the government mentions that the so-called modernisation of the planning law, as it is called, must promote tourism and, up to 2025, must provide one third more tourists and a turnover in tourism of 140 billion. kr. In the Enhedslisten we are of the opinion that, to a certain extent, we are shooting ourselves in the foot when we want to give the municipalities greater access to establishing projects and cottage building in the coastal zone and even give rise to projects within the beach protection line. In fact, it is on nature experiences that we in Denmark score high on, let's call it the tourism barometer, and here it is not least our freely accessible, open and pristine shores and beaches that make the impact for both foreign and Danish tourists. Moreover, it is worth noting that tourism has taken a huge leap up again after some sluggish years after the crisis, and perhaps we should actually put cold water into this industry's outlook. They're probably not as gloomy as it looked right after the crisis. As far as the relocation of state jobs is concerned, this is an initiative that we supported on the part of the Enhedslisten, but at the same time we have criticised the concrete plan for relocation as being too premature and poorly worked out and analysed. For the same reason, the plan is underfunded, which means that the relevant agencies and councils etc. I have to pay for a large part of the relocation myself. At the same time, relocation has led to significantly increasing processing times in some agencies, but the government is consoling itself with the fact that it will probably be better when the relocation has fallen into place, and it is to be hoped that it will. But if the situation had now been thoroughly analysed prior to the relocation, and had been tried to provide some good incentives for the former employees in terms of job guarantees, probation periods, pay supplements, or whatever it might be thought of to move with, it could have been that some more people had moved with and thus retained their competence and knowledge and thus avoided the loss of knowledge that has come out of it in some places, at least. We are absolutely opposed to the experimental scheme referred to in the statement on which the government is on its way with regard to an announced dialogue with the European Commission that foreigners can acquire summer homes in specially selected areas. We simply believe that it will be a slippery slope and that the European Union will use such a scheme to lift the summer house rule completely in the long term, and that is something we are strongly opposed to in the Enhedslisten. This will simply mean that holiday homes, especially along the west coast of Jutland, but certainly elsewhere, will rise greatly in value and will not be able to get close to ordinary Danes. At the same time, it would mean that the summer houses would seem to be more or less empty for most of the year, since you wouldn't take a vacation in a summer house if you live in southern Germany, for example. I must also ask: is there even a majority in favour of this proposal? It was a rather rhetorical question which was also addressed to the Danish People's Party. For the same reason, we are concerned about the possibility that pensioners will have to live in cottage all year now, after only one year of ownership. We are not sure that it also challenges the cottage rule, since it has just been concluded for holiday and leisure homes and assumes that the house is precisely used in the holiday and in leisure time. The government has so far sounded pretty sure that it is not a problem, and we hope that is true, but it has to come to a test, to put it plainly. In the Enhedslisten, we want to help develop our outermost regions, rural areas and islands. It must be attractive to settle in the countryside or on an island, and we are in the process of developing; it will probably be a ten-point plan for the development of small rural communities. I am not going to mention all ten points, just a few of them, which we believe are of the greatest importance: we attach great importance to building local councils around with not only the right of consultation, but also the right of initiative, decision-making powers and the economy, and I would very much like to highlight here what is happening in the established rural committee in Sønderborg Municipality, where village guilders have really managed to get in and where they actually have real competence and, so to speak, their own economy to work with. Widebands are an important thing, and that is also mentioned in the statement. We think there should be and we must demand 100% coverage. I can't understand why, in these frequency auctions, we don't simply demand the telecommunications companies to take the acid with the sweet, one hundred percent coverage if you want to be here and that they can't just take the areas where there are relatively densely built and the intermediate ones. We also think that one could work with the idea of village pedals, a kind of local handyman, from postman to driver on the local village bus, etc. It's only the imagination that sets limits. Several have mentioned the ferry tariffs, where there is broad agreement here in the Folketing, that the principle of road transport must be fully implemented. We fully agree with that. And we will continue to fight in the Enhedslisten to ensure that there will be government credit in relation to both residential and small businesses in the countryside. Whether it should be through a state bank or in other ways, we have not just made such a determination, but we believe that there is still a problem, even though the crisis has done its work.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504175936	Then we thank the Enhedslisten rapporteur. The next in line is Mrs Christina Egelund, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504175949	Thank you, President. The climate of crisis is getting out of hand, and there is growth and prosperity. But that growth must benefit all of Denmark. It should not only be around the capital or around Århus, we as a citizen are experiencing economic prosperity and more jobs, that growth must be felt in all parts of the country. Therefore, the Liberal Alliance within and outside the government has also helped to implement initiatives that support growth, not only around the major cities, but throughout Denmark. And there are some initiatives that I would like to highlight in particular. The planning law has been modernised so that the municipalities and the individual citizen will have much more freedom to adapt as they please. Of course, in the Liberal Alliance, we would have liked to have gone even further in liberalisation, but that is a good step forward. It supports growth in coastal areas through increased tourism and more jobs. Then we have recently increased the loan limit for the summer houses so that you can now borrow your summer house up to 75%. It is an initiative that will get summer house sales going for the benefit of rural areas and Denmark as a whole. Another initiative that has benefited rural development is the relocation of state jobs. That relocation is well under way, and there are more jobs on the way. The Minister's statement shows that the cost of relocation is slightly lower than expected. This is really positive, and it also turns out that there have been no problems in getting the posts reinstated, as many otherwise had feared. So all in all, it is something that can give a boost to the smaller cities, not only economically, but it also helps to increase the quality of life. We see an increase in activity in many villages because of the relocation of enterprising and resourceful families. Finally, we have also abolished the PRS tax. It was a tax that hit very heavily, especially in rural areas, where most production companies are located, and whose growth and development were severely hampered by the PSO tax. It is therefore very good that it is now gone, but it would of course have been better if it had never been introduced. As the Minister's statement shows, things are going much better in rural areas than they did just a few years ago. Employment is increasing in many municipalities, where it has fallen in the past, there is population growth in more and more municipalities. The housing market also shows positive trends in rural municipalities, where all municipalities have seen an increase in the number of dwellings sold since 2013. But it's not everywhere that you experience these positive trends. For many years, the small islands have been challenged and have not benefited at all from the developments which the rest of the country has experienced. The population is falling as it rises in the rest of the country. The proportion of older people has become relatively higher and the number of young people is also much lower than in the rest of the country. Something needs to be done about this, and the government is already well underway. In particular, the initiative to reduce the prices for ferry tickets to and from the islands has proved to be a good success. After just 6 months of cheaper ferry tickets, virtually all island municipalities report increasing passenger numbers. So there are a lot of positive things happening around rural municipalities, and we must continue to support that development. We have to, among other things. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work and for the excellent work he has done on this subject. If we are to flag a single classic Liberal Alliance brand case, which will be very good for developments outside the big cities, it is to relax or remove registration fees, because if you live outside the reach of the subway, it is a basic condition that you have to have a car to move around in. There is no good thing about a very high registration fee. It actually hits particularly hard outside the cities. So we must push for continued positive developments in those parts of the country that are more difficult than other parts. Then I promised to greet our good friends in the Conservative People's Party and say that, of course, they also sign for the Minister's statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504180409	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is one person who has asked for a brief comment, and that is Mr Seligman. Troels Ravn, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504180413	Thank you. What makes me ask a question here is that the rapporteur himself mentioned small islands and cheaper ferry charges. I would like to point out that when we proposed these 140 million. kr., the government called it unambitious, and now the government itself has assigned the area these 140 million. kr. Then what I want to ask the Liberal Alliance is when, on the basis of the view of the Liberal Alliance, it is expected to take the next steps.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504180447	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504180448	I can then understand from the Social Democrat rapporteur that the government has then fulfilled the Social Democrat ambition, and of course I hope that the Social Democratic Party is happy about that. It is my opinion that we have now done this as a first step, and then we have to look at the evaluation of what it creates of growth and how it works before we organise the next step. However, I hope that the Social Democrats are pleased that this government has then implemented what was the ambition of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504180514	Thank you to the rapporteur. No, sir. Troels Ravn just got in touch and thus gets the floor again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504180522	That's what he did. Thank you. Now it is, of course, that the bourgeois parties called it unambitious, and then it is relevant to ask when they expect to take the next step. And I can also read as we are about this with promises that the current Foreign Minister in a debate speech in the Bornholms Tidende on 24 March 2015 said that it was the entire economic policy of the Liberal Alliance that funds were to be provided to ensure traffic equality to Bornholm and that the Liberal Alliance did not make empty promises and that everyone would be able to witness it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504180601	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504180602	Thank you for reminding us all of a very good quote and a good ambition. It just shows, when the government has implemented part of a traffic equality, that it is not just an idea that has fallen from the sky and come out of the blue, it is actually something we have thought about, even before we came into government. It is true that there are areas where you are challenged in relation to transport when you do not live just inside the cities. You are when you live on the islands, but you are also when you live outside what is covered by public transport, which we spend a great deal of money on supporting in this society. And it is a king's idea for the Liberal Alliance that we must also help those who are in a situation where you are dependent on a car, and the day when the Social Democratic Party may support that ambition, it may also be that we can help those who live outside the lanes of the metro or buses or trains. That would be very, very good for those who benefit from it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504180659	There is a question from Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504180704	In short, can the rapporteur confirm that the Social Democratic Party was opposed to road equality until the good Mr. Henning Hyllested of Enhedslisten proclaimed that he was in favour of the bourgeois proposals on transport equality? I remember the process in such a way that it was first there that the Social Democratic Party felt compelled to support road equality. Does the rapporteur recognize this progress?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504180731	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504180732	It sounds as if the questioner is fully in control of that process, so I would venture to confirm that, yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504180741	Thank you. So let's leave that confirmation and move on. Then it's mr. Roger Matthisen. He's from the Alternative, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504180752	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for Industry and Growth for the statement. As rapporteur for a coherent Denmark with the Alternative, I have looked forward to today's statement and we also had a good debate last year. The Danish rural areas are still suffering from an unambitious policy which is not holistic. They also suffer from being branded both by the media and by us politicians as lost areas that pull the rest of Denmark down. Fortunately, we see many good initiatives, and we see citizens who seek away from this vision by changing history, and they do so in mind, and they do so in action. This also applies to the alternative. That is why I have been given the title of rapporteur for a coherent Denmark. Danish rural areas offer plenty of opportunities for nature experiences, organic food production, culture and strong binding communities, opportunities for Danish family life, opportunities for green conversion and opportunities for entrepreneurship. At the same time, we are going to learn how to think in completely new forms of living, living and working. In this context, we are delighted in the alternative that the government has taken a couple of important steps towards nuanced perceptions of Danish rural areas. Last year, the government described cities as growth locomotives that drive development in the rest of the country. I am glad that in the last statement we are trying to go beyond that. Now I'm saying "we" as if I'm part of the government, so I'd rather say that the government goes beyond this contradiction between country and city. We must get away from the idea that growth belongs only to urban areas. Instead, we must regard rural areas as a good investment rather than merely talking about sources of high costs and that it is expensive to offer education and run schools and everything else. In Denmark, we have in recent years defined rural policy as a citizen-driven policy. There we fully agree with the alternative that it makes sense. This is also how we have developed our policy in this area over the last two years. We'll get out soon enough. I'm here with the entire catalogue. But at the same time, it must not be a disclaimer from in here. Danish rural policy has lacked a clear vision and political priority at national level. We are still experiencing it. I would like to congratulate the government on the fact that we are now seeing a number of initiatives aimed at formulating a political direction. Then we can discuss whether it is holistic and long-term enough. But the government has carried out much-needed and sensible measures. It is good that they recognise the growth potential of the digital infrastructure and will do something about it. That the pot isn't big enough, we need to talk about. We are also pleased that we have seen this hand in at least a partial implementation of the principle of road transport and the relocation of state jobs to a large scale plan. However, we would like to see a focus on how to maintain the state-funded jobs already located in rural areas. The Centre for Rural Research points out that the relocation of education is more important than jobs, if we want to keep young people in the areas and if we want to maintain development and settlement. In the government's statement, I find that there is a focus on one-sided economic growth, in which the green transition is cut in particular. It is at the expense of social contexts; it is at the expense of nature and the environment. For example, the government mentions restrictions on agricultural growth opportunities as the first challenge. In the alternative, we believe that we should have an eye on the economic opportunities of green businesses, and we believe that Danish rural areas have an important role to play in the green economy. The European Union says that we have 20 million jobs in the green economy in the next few years. It is not because we want to under-priority agriculture, but instead we see that the growth of the future and the creation of jobs in agriculture are taking place in the context of ecological change. Similarly, it is vital for us to ensure geographical coverage of training provision. There must therefore be room for other perspectives than the narrow focus that we are currently experiencing on business interests. In the alternative, therefore, we want growth which takes account of the link between the economy, social relations, nature and the environment. And we do not believe that this is done by focusing narrowly on a relaxation of the law on plans or by pushing nature into the implementation of the agricultural package. Instead, we need forward-looking strategies. For example, tourism has great potential by encouraging people to enjoy the wild nature and the true nature experiences. We therefore need more wild nature and untouched forest, biodiversity in local plans. Finally, let us focus on the violations that are taking place in our nature and environment, with some nature officers. I hope that the citizens-driven policy that we come out with can inspire and encourage dialogue on future solutions. It therefore seems somewhat contradictory that the government is maintaining its savings on LAG funds. It is funds that are directly targeted at business projects and jobs. The Enhedslisten's rapporteur covered this very well in terms of the quality and results of the funds. The funds guarantee, among other things. these anchorages in local fiery souls that are vital to our rural areas. For us, a balanced Denmark is a more rich and diverse Denmark. I am convinced that we must make far greater investments than we do today. In the alternative, we also attach great importance to the fact that these investments are in local solutions and in local communities, by engaging citizens when they are part of a binding community. Today we see an incredible number of initiatives in which civil society, local councils, cultural life, fire souls, organisations and municipalities organise themselves in new forms of cooperation and address the completely local challenges and develop new solutions that we may also be inspired by in cities. If Danish rural policy is to succeed, then it requires that our municipalities also act as facilitators in this strengthened interaction between authorities, civil society, associations and citizens. And here we need much greater and experimental freedom for the municipalities to free citizens in the new forms of cooperation. To conclude, I would like to stress the importance of geography as a political dividing line and of the fact that the challenges facing rural areas are the challenges of Denmark as a whole. This applies, for example, to the geographical inequality we see in access to health and the length of our citizens' lives. It is deeply worrying that a man on Lolland lives 12 years shorter than a man in North Zealand. So this illustrates the importance of improving the thinking of the geographical issue in the Folketing when we develop policy in all areas: education, social affairs, taxation, etc. This requires that we weigh the social and environmental consequences as much as the economic ones when we take these major public decisions. We must continue to dare dreams and work for a coherent Denmark where it is natural that the good life can arise and develop everywhere. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504181543	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Thomas Danielsen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504181549	Thank you for the good speech by the rapporteurs. I look forward to seeing the rural development initiative of the Alternative once it has been completed, and I particularly welcome the fact that there is then a party in the opposition that has a rural policy. This is really positive. The rapporteur mentions a large number of concerns about the rural policy being pursued today, including the fact that LAG funds have been cut, etc. To the rapporteur's information, I have to say that the LAG funds that have been cut have been transferred to another rural growth measure for the benefit of rural areas. So it is not the case that we have removed them from the province. But the rapporteur says, among other things: In his speech that the broadband pool is far too small and that we need to talk about it. And I'd like to talk about that. However, the rapporteur must also understand that we come from a point of departure where, unfortunately, there were no legislative proposals from the previous government in this area. We come from the point of view of the previous government saying that broadband is something that market forces must stand for. So this is a big step, we think that we have now created a broadband pool and that we are now rolling out broadband. However, I would like to talk about the broadband pool with the rapporteur, in relation to what the rapporteur thinks the broadband pool should be on when the current pool is not large enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504181713	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504181715	Thank you for that and thank you for your comment. I have been at it for some time with investigative questions and excavations, I was almost going to say, in all these policy measures that have been in relation to broadband. And what happened to this commitment when Tele Danmark was publicly owned, and then they were privatised to TDC etc.? It is as if I am constantly hitting loose ends, and it is as if we have not entirely taken care of having a greater assessment of what it will actually cost to roll out broadband. So I cannot stand by and give a figure of what it is going to cost, but I can see that the funds available to us today are not enough. That is why I am pleased that the rapporteur would like to discuss how much it should be. But that requires a thorough investigation of the area. We can start by using the figures that have been presented in the report for, who and where it is then in Denmark, we lack this coverage.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504181824	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions. Next in line, sir. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504181838	Two days ago a new business club was created in Skiveegnen, which I represent here in the Danish Parliament. What the business club had to do was to try to ensure that companies in the county could have access to qualified labour, because this is a very big problem for them. I have heard the same from incredibly many places, both from private companies and public institutions... all types of jobs say: we lack qualified labour. This is particularly true in some of the municipalities where the level of education is low, because there are no educational establishments to a great extent, in other words some of the municipalities where, unfortunately, there are many outside the labour market, and these are typically municipalities located in rural areas. That is why it is right, as the report says, to welcome the fact that employment is increasing, because when more people in a rural community are in work, there is more money between people and in the municipality fund to make the welfare society work and to make a private business function. However, I really think that the government lacks to praise itself and say that it is, after all, because an economic policy has been pursued over a number of years, which shifts people from passive support to employment, and thus has a very positive effect, including on our rural areas, which have been particularly affected by low employment. So a responsible economic policy pursued by the previous government, which, in our view at least, the Left Government also tried to implement the 2025 plan, is also very good and sensible rural policy. That is also why it is unreasonable for a majority outside the Radical Left and the government to choose to make it more difficult to obtain qualified foreign labour for the country, it is also a bad thing for rural areas which already find it difficult to obtain skilled labour. Everything from industrial technicians, to engineers, to high school teachers, to primary school teachers, it is harder to find in rural areas than it is in the large university towns, and then it is a really bad idea to make it harder for an industrial technician from, for example, Poland or somewhere else to go to a rural area in Denmark and work. Then, of course, the government must also have some criticism, yes, you, Minister of Business and Industry, and this is about the savings on education and the complete lack of focus on training initiatives in this statement. Because we can look at the statistics in the report about where there is a shortage of people with higher education and where there is a shortage of people with vocational training. These are the same municipalities that also do badly in a lot of other areas. That's why it's a really bad idea to make these green harvesting savings on both upper secondary and higher education at 2%. Every year, because what is happening is what we have also seen in the hospital area, namely that you try to put educational institutions together to save the money you have now chosen to save for the next four years. This will affect the small institutions, it will mean merging, dismantling and centralising large-scale education and thus hitting the opportunity to get qualified labour in some rural municipalities even more. That should be changed, and when I understand that last night you made a proposal on how to reform how to grant grants to higher education, you should also have a greater focus on rural areas and how to distribute education. Finally, I would like to say one thing about agriculture. In the Radical Left, we do not agree with the agricultural vision of the government. I visited a farm called Ausumgaard, over in northwest Jutland, which has chosen to say that they will both try to make money on some tourism, on some energy production, and now they will consider whether they could sell some of the pigs directly in advance to the consumer, in other words try to create a brand new business case. We also see it from Ecological Landsforening, which has tried to get the consumer to buy land directly, buy part of the production, so simply try to create a new form of production, a new way of moving upwards in the value chain, instead of the focus of the government's agricultural package, to make more of the same and in the short term allow farmers to pollute more, then in a year or two, to come up with a major environmental intervention called targeted regulation. I think we should have taken this opportunity to try to move the agricultural industry towards something new and other than what we have known. I think it would have been wiser to start experimenting with that than to take more of what exists. Thank you to the government for presenting its statement so that we can have a good debate and then we will have to see if there are any questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504182340	Thank you. There is. There is one question from Mr. Troels Ravn, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504182345	Thank you. I hear the rapporteur talking about education and skilled labour, in other words an area that I very much agree with is of great importance to our rural areas. Does Mr Radicale's rapporteur agree that we must ensure education throughout Denmark by giving unskilled people a training boost and canceling the government's planned savings on vocational training? Does the rapporteur agree that when it comes to rural policy, there is a tendency for the government to support with one hand and save with the other hand?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504182418	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504182419	I fully agree with that, and I also think it would have been a very good idea if the Social Democrats had not voted in favour of the savings in vocational training.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504182431	Then that's the questioner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504182432	The rapporteur speaks of the upgrading of labour and the importance of the possibility of more foreigners entering the labour market. However, the rapporteur is not aware that the increase in employment in rural areas and the more people entering work in many rural areas are in fact Polish and German workers and that it would, in fact, be a really good investment if we were to have qualified the people on the outskirts of the labour market to be able to challenge the jobs that exist, so to speak, to upgrade them and to spend our resources on it instead of spending the money on making, for example, top tax concessions, etc.?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504182516	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504182517	We really want to be involved in investing in education, and then there has to be some money. I think the Social Democrats have yet to answer that question. Now savings have been made on both youth education, production schools and higher education, and if you do not want the savings, where will the money come from? There we have put forward a proposal, and that is that if people in the 60s who can stay longer on the labour market • faster than we have agreed in advance • there will be money to make investment in education. I think that the Social Democratic Party should take a look at where that money for education should come from.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504182555	Thank you. Then it's mr. Thomas Danielsen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504182559	Thank you. And thank the rapporteur for that very fine and good speech. And yes, we are not entirely in agreement in all areas, but if we were, there was no reason why many years ago we split up into two different parties. I have also just spoken to praise the rapporteur for his eye on skilled labour in the province as one of the major challenges and one of the things that we should probably have more focus on, particularly foreign labour, which is a great gain for Denmark, but also for the province. In fact, in the more sparsely populated areas, there are indeed many Eastern Europeans who settle down with their families and help to ensure that the school is maintained. They at least send their children there, etc. So there's a lot of positive things about that. I would just like to mention in relation to the Ausumgaard project and the government's agricultural policy, which the rapporteur criticised, that the government certainly does not stand by. This is a fantastic project, Ausumgaard's welfare pig, and it is only something that we welcome. I am just saying this so that there is no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504182703	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504182704	Well, it's also in Mr. Knox's office. Thomas Danielsen's constituency, so I totally agree. I hope I didn't say you were against it either. I think that some of the money used in the agricultural package could then have been used to promote such things instead. That's my point.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504182722	Then it's Mrs. Mette Hjermind Dencker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504182726	I just think it is so nice when we politicians also have a life outside Christiansborg and we do something in our spare time. So it was nice to hear about Mr. Andreas Steenberg's involvement in the Skive business club. But I wondered why he said, and I quote: 'Screw business club', which I represent here in the Folketing. I can't believe I walked around and I was so naive to think that mr. Andreas Steenberg represented the Radical Left in the Folketing. But that's how you can get smarter. When Mr. Andreas Steenberg talks about raising the retirement age, Mr. Andreas Steenberg did not realize that it is precisely in the outermost regions, which have in fact also been mentioned in this debate, that people live shorter, among other things. because of unskilled work? So raising the retirement age would directly harm rural and peripheral areas and the people who live there.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504182826	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504182827	I think I said: a business club in Skiveegnen, which I represent in the Danish Parliament, and the company referred to Skiveegnen and not the business club. But it is a good thing that Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker knows that I represent Radical Left is a good thing. The Danish People's Party has participated in a settlement which raises the retirement age, and so has the Social Democracy, so the government and the Radical Left and the two major parties agree that it should be up to 67 years. We propose to do so five years before, and in this we will then make a very favourable arrangement which is exactly the same as the trade unions have wanted, so that within the last five years of one's working life one can withdraw from early retirement on a medical certificate. So I think that, because we dare to do it five years before, we have made a social scheme which the Danish People's Party does not have. You just raise the retirement age five years later than I do, without there being any social scheme for those who are worn out.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504182927	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments, which means that we will move on to Mr Beazley's report. Karsten Hønge of the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504182941	Oh, my God, we often talk about Denmark hanging together. But we have actually done something about it earlier today when we decided to make it cheaper to sail to our islands. And I would also like to say that I am eagerly waiting for the legislative proposal to look forward to dealing with the proposal for a rural filter, which, on the basis of a motion for a resolution from the SF, we discussed a short time ago. The government took the idea very well, and now we have to see what it ends up with. After all, the goal is that prosperity and growth should be for the whole of Denmark and for all Danes. It is not the case that we can or must try to prevent the movement against the larger cities, but we can make it more attractive to continue living on the islands and in rural areas. There is certainly an underlying tendency to turn towards cities, but surely we do not have to push that trend. In order to live there and live a modern life, a number of conditions must be met: a good, secure and developed welfare society with good institutions, schools, elderly homes and cultural opportunities. Who would like to live without such opportunities and perhaps even with an unstable network connection and mobile coverage in specially selected places? These basic conditions, along with good, cheap and efficient public transport, must make people want to live outside the cities. And a particular pleasure in this respect is that there are two conciliation circles in this Parliament which will give priority to public transport. There is the Togfonden DK, which will ensure not only fast operation between the largest cities, but a much better regional operation with upgrading of 11 regional railway lines, and the conciliation circle behind the Better and Cheaper Public Transport, which has recently committed 762 million. kr., also for the benefit of users of the public transport and cyclists. Unfortunately, the government is not involved in these settlements, but it might consider coming. SF also proposes a number of initiatives that will help islands and rural areas in a targeted way. We propose the creation of 25 local welfare centres, and we do so on the basis that town halls, post offices, police stations, courthouses and libraries are closed in many cities. Service functions that we depend on in everyday life have moved to the big cities and have drained several smaller cities for life. It contributes to depopulation. Our idea of welfare centres is that it should provide a shorter journey time for public services, such as: passport issue and service in connection with job centres, social counselling, mail, medical delivery and police. The welfare centres can also allow citizens in the local area to establish themselves with other functions such as: communal rooms, cafes, large screens for film and sports events and various cultural events. The welfare centres therefore not only bring the near and local welfare back to the small communities, they also withdraw everyday life and proximity and give people who are now commuting to the larger cities better opportunities to work and stay at home. Faster Internet across the country. According to figures from the Danish Energy Agency, there are over 9 million subscribers to Internet broadband, including mobile broadband. A tax of just 2 kr. per subscription per year; month would give an income of approx. 200 million kr. annual. SF suggests that the money is spent to ensure proper high-speed connections to the whole country. SF proposes the establishment of a mortgage credit institution with the area of the provision of loans to owner-occupied housing and commercial property in the outermost regions. SF has five concrete proposals for measures to improve medical coverage and health provision in rural areas. We are also saying that to some extent it is a good idea to relocate some of the state jobs, but in the SF's view this should happen in cases where it makes sense on several parameters at the same time. But in any case, we think that the government's policy is a bit like the dance •Down to the dresser and embrace again. Because, at the same time as exodus of state jobs, cuts are being made to educational institutions, which means that, in order to survive, more of them are closing down offers, educational orientations, yes, and entire schools. They centralize, and mostly they do so in the larger cities. The SF believes that we should increase the education grant for youth education in the outskirts and introduce it also for higher education. SF also proposes that 150 youth housing be built as an experiment in three rural towns with educational institutions. And SF also proposes that more risk capital be provided through the Growth Fund and that adult and continuing training be given much higher priority. We can only note that it is AMU and VUC, which are very much training offers which exist outside the large cities SF believes that much more needs to be invested in wind turbines, both at sea and on land, and in installations such as the biofuel plant at Maabjerg. These are initiatives that can help create thousands of jobs in rural areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504183519	We thank the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and we have actually now reached the Minister for Business and Industry, who is being given the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504183532	I have been looking forward very much to standing here today and telling you about the government's work in creating growth and development throughout this is an area that the government is giving very high priority to. Growth and development across the country is an overall vision and framework for government rural policy. The fact is that the Danish economy is in progress today. Employment is rising, unemployment is falling and we have sound economic growth. But if we look at the figures, we can also see that growth has been unevenly distributed for a number of years. The large growth centres are seen around the large cities, especially in the capital and in East Jutland, while rural areas have been characterised by more or less growth for a number of years. So the economic recovery has not automatically benefited rural areas. This means that an active political effort is needed to achieve positive rural development. A positive development starts with something to live on. There must be good conditions for creating business and creating jobs in all parts of the country. On this point, the radical rapporteur is quite right. Indeed, it is about reforms and it is about ensuring that there is development throughout the country. And that is why I agree with the radical rapporteur that reforms contribute to growth and development throughout Denmark. Therefore, the government also has a strong focus on removing the barriers that today hinder prosperity and development outside the largest cities, and on promoting conditions for agriculture, industry, tourism and shipping, which are especially at home in rural areas. There must be good conditions for living and working in all parts of the country. This means a lot to the country's overall growth and development. The project Growth and development throughout Denmark from 2015 is a cornerstone of the government's work in that area. The project has over 120 different initiatives and is expected to have a GDP effect of up to 2.5 billion. kr. The government has implemented more than half of the initiatives, and before we go on summer holidays, I am waiting for us to implement three-quarters of the 120 initiatives. At the moment, we are working to achieve the goal of a comprehensive modernisation of the Planning Act to promote local growth and development. I expect the municipalities to use the new planning law as an effective tool to make it easier to operate, work and live in all parts of the country. However, efforts to create growth and development throughout the country do not stop with the 120 initiatives. This spring a broad majority in the Danish Parliament has decided to increase the loan limit for summer houses from 60%. 75%. This makes it cheaper both to buy, build and renovate cottages and will help to create more rural life. Other new initiatives are linked to innovation and digitalisation. One example is the testing of self-propelled cars. What is particularly welcome about this year's statement is that the emerging positive trends, as last year's statement pointed out, have become firm. Both employment, population and housing markets are developing positively. A few years ago, employment fell. It is now replaced by increases in most municipalities. For example: many Sjællandske municipalities have come along very well. There are still areas of declining employment. This applies to North- and North-West Jutland, Southern Denmark and the islands. But there will be fewer of those areas. The population has also begun to grow in most municipalities. This is particularly clear on Zealand and Funen. However, parts of northern and western Jutland, Southern Denmark and the islands continue to be marked by a declining population, but the decline is less than before. In recent years the housing market has seen a growing number of empty buildings, farm buildings, schools and commercial buildings etc. outside the major cities. The background is, among other things, that agriculture is combined into larger and more efficient farms and a weak housing market and negative population development. The uninhabited homes are a challenge with major social consequences. The empty homes are damaging settlements and tourism and can help create a negative spiral. The largest share of uninhabitable dwellings is found in North and North West Jutland, South Denmark and the islands. However, it is gratifying that there is now an increase in the number of homes sold. All municipalities have seen an increase since 2013, most of them by more than 10%. At the same time, mortgage lending is now increasing in most municipalities, i.e. a further positive trend which suggests a development in the right direction. The Danish small islands often have more in common with each other than they have with the municipalities they are part of, and therefore they have their own section in the statement. Our small islands are particularly challenged in relation to the development that has been going on over a long period of time. The total population on the Danish small islands was pr. January 1, 2017 at 4,210, and that's a fall of 12%. Since 2008. At the same time, the population at national level has increased by almost 5%. There is therefore a major challenge and a need for conversion in the small islands. In addition, the small islands have considerably more older than the rest of the country, which are relatively few children and young people and many over 65 years of age. The small islands also differ from the rest of the country on a number of socio-economic key figures, as shown in the report, and therefore initiatives have been launched with the Government's initiative on growth and development throughout Denmark, which directly accommodates the islands. Among other things: It has become cheaper to get to and from the islands outside the summer holidays of schools, and in the years to come, millions more are being allocated for price reductions on ferry tickets. This is to improve conditions for the non-bridged islands, and it has already been a huge success on the islands. After six months of reduced prices, 17 out of 21 municipalities have reported progress in passenger numbers on local ferries. For example: the number of passengers in Læsø has increased by 30%, while the island's turnover as a result of the increase has increased by 9.2 million. kr. However, we have also launched a national tourism strategy. The strategy was published in September 2016 and most of its 66 initiatives have been initiated and continuously followed by the National Tourism Forum. We have also abolished the PRS tax. The total savings benefit both households and businesses. For companies, the final saving is estimated to be 3.8 billion. kr., which is primarily expected to benefit a number of Jutland municipalities and Kalundborg. Then we have decided to introduce a requirement for an explanation of significant rural consequences. This means that significant consequences for rural areas must be clearly reflected in legislative proposals put forward in the Folketing. One of the most significant of the overall initiatives is undoubtedly the modernisation of the Planning Act. The Plan Act provides a framework for development opportunities across the country and today presents a number of challenges for the municipalities, companies and citizens to create growth and development throughout Denmark. The government wants the law of plans to be a major tool for the development of the whole of Denmark, while preserving the environment and rich nature. The revised draft law amending the Schedule Act was at first reading in the Folketing on 2 February 2017. The bill is expected to be adopted before the summer break. The modernisation of the law on plans includes, inter alia: a relaxation of rules for redundant buildings and for the expansion of housing and small businesses in rural areas. •Cities of redevelopment are introduced as a new concept in municipal planning and allow municipalities to put in place more long-term and holistic plans and opportunities for coastal municipalities to designate development areas in the coastal area, where more access is given to planning for the development of towns, villages or businesses, and then there is also a more flexible framework for the use of holiday homes. All these measures must make it easier and more attractive to live and operate in rural areas, but they must also maintain life and jobs in rural areas. There must be good conditions for living both in the countryside and in the towns and cities, to have a good working life and family life and the security of the availability of public institutions. That is why a special committee for viable villages has been set up. The committee must focus on the future of villages and how they can be viable and make concrete recommendations for conversion and renewal towards viable villages, thereby contributing to the government's ambition for growth and development throughout Denmark. We will also repeal rules on the validity of driving licences for the elderly. The aim is to increase the mobility of older people and to help older people, including the elderly in rural areas, remain self-reliant for a long time. And then there will be an experimental scheme for self-propelled cars. If the Government's draft legislation on controlled tests on self-propelled vehicles is adopted in the Folketing, it will be possible, among other things, from 1 July 2017 to include the following: municipalities to obtain permission to experiment with self-propelled cars on experimental routes throughout the country. Self-propelled cars can help improve the mobility of rural areas, where low population density makes it difficult to ensure good public transport. We will also set up an experimental scheme which will open up the sale of holiday homes to foreigners in specially selected areas. The experimental scheme is expected to create activity and development in areas where demand for holiday homes is limited and how many summer houses are empty. Last year nearly 80 million were given. kr. in grants to 31 projects which will provide coverage with fast broadband for over 3,700 homes, businesses and summer houses in 21 municipalities. At the 2016 auction, over the 1,800-MHz frequency band, the government provided an ambitious coverage requirement for mobile operators to improve mobile and broadband coverage. The requirement ensures that almost 2200 households, businesses and holiday homes spread over 245 areas have access to a mobile broadband connection with a download speed of at least 30 Mb/s, an upload speed of at least 3 Mb/s and voice coverage. With the plan • Better balance • Closer to citizens and companies • presented on October 1, 2015, 3,900 government jobs are relocated, distributed across Denmark. The state institutions are set in the world to solve tasks for citizens and companies throughout Denmark. The government therefore wants state jobs to be distributed throughout the country. Overall, the relocation of state jobs follows the timetable. Pr. On 1 October 2016, 1,126 jobs had been relocated. The most recent statement of expenditure on the relocation of government jobs shows that expenditure per head of population in the Member State concerned is the same as in the other Member States. the job transferred is slightly lower than originally estimated. In the short term there will be temporary costs of relocation itself, but in the longer term there are also expected to be economic gains for the state, for example. in the form of lower rental prices outside the metropolitan area and an optimisation of the building stock in the capital. Generally speaking, there has been a large search and many qualified applicants for the posts established in the different parts of the country. Thus, an inventory shows that across the state there have been 21,000 applicants for almost 1,015 posts outside the metropolitan area. This corresponds to an average of about 20 applicants per year. Replaced workplace. In general, therefore, it is not difficult to reinstate posts in cases where the employees have chosen not to move with them. In future, if institutions are to be extended or set up, the government will place them outside the metropolitan area. The government will also • and there I fully agree with DF's very skilful rapporteur • submit proposals in 2018 for further relocation of state jobs based on the experience of the already decided relocations. The government has now implemented more than half of the more than 120 initiatives from the project of growth and development throughout Denmark, a figure which, when the Danes go on summer holidays, will have grown to three quarters. I think that is actually quite an achievement, and I am pleased to see that things are now moving forward in many rural areas. The government's efforts for growth and development throughout the country do not stop with the 120 initiatives. We will constantly launch new initiatives to create growth and development throughout the country. In conclusion, I would just like to reiterate the message of positive trends: we can welcome the fact that the arrow is pointing in the right direction in a number of areas. The statement shows that the overall population growth in Denmark is benefiting more and more municipalities. Employment is increasing not only around the big cities but also in several areas elsewhere in the country. House sales and mortgage lending in the areas outside the large cities also show emerging signs that several parts of the country are in a good development. I have been very pleased with the dialogue that I have also had on a regular basis with the Committee on Rural Development and the Islands and other stakeholders on the area in my time as Minister so far, and I would also like to invite you to continue this. We can also have a dialogue until next year I have a new statement. Until then, we will hopefully come together with a number of initiatives so that we can see a positive development that has become even better established in more places in the coming year. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504184957	Thank you, Minister. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Troels Ravn, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504185002	Thank you, and thank you to the Minister. Fortunately, we are experiencing positive developments in several parts of the country, and the Minister also made a fine point in his speech. But we are far from achieving that, and I expect we will agree on that too. There are still far too many places where there are falling population, high unemployment and a large proportion of citizens on cash benefits and early retirement. Last month it came to light that since the change of government there have been no meetings of the government's advisory committee on rural areas, where the Rural Council, Agriculture and Food, the Free Air Council and the Cooperative Merchants are represented, i.e. people with their fingers on the pulse. As I also mentioned during the debate in relation to the things that are helping to pull the country off, I would like to give the Government the advice that a meeting with the parties mentioned here should be convened as soon as possible. Can the Minister tell me what is the reason why no meeting has been held? And when is it planned to convene a meeting?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504185105	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504185107	I will, of course, arrange for a meeting to be convened, and I have already taken the initiative to do so. I have been sitting relatively short, so I find it difficult to explain why there have been no meetings in committee in the past, in other words beyond the fact that a multitude of different initiatives have been taken in this area. But, of course, I will arrange to convene a meeting so that the members of the committee will have the opportunity to discuss these important issues, including with each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504185139	Thank you to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504185155	The debate is open and we start with the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504185218	Denmark's annual Union contribution shall be determined in accordance with the Regulation on the Union's own resources. This Regulation was adopted by all 28 Heads of State or Government of the European Union in 2013 in parallel with the adoption of the Agreement on the multiannual financial framework of the European Union for the period 2014-2020. The regulation on the EU's own resources has since been ratified by the parliaments of all 28 countries, and in the case of Denmark, the agreement was ratified by the Folketing on 19 December 2014. It must be understood that the motion for a resolution requires the Government to renegotiate an agreement reached unanimously among all the Heads of State or Government of the European Union and subsequently approved by the Danish Parliament. The aim of the proposal is to prevent additional payments to the EU and renegotiate Denmark's contribution to Britain's rebate. The government generally agrees that we must avoid additional costs to the European Union. This is also the approach to the debate on the EU's annual budgets, and the government acts in order to ensure an appropriate priority for EU budget resources and ensure as low expenditure as possible. In addition, it is the government's approach that Britain's withdrawal from the EU should not lead to increases in the EU budget and therefore not in Denmark's EU contribution. This view is also shared by our budget-responsible colleagues in other countries. However, the government does not agree that Denmark should make a wish to renegotiate the Danish EU contribution, and that is on two basic grounds. Firstly, most of the recitals and remarks in the motion for a resolution are misleading and erroneous. Secondly, Denmark is, after all, a responsible and credible country which accepts the agreements that have been concluded. In order to justify the proposal, it is stated, inter alia, that the Danish State has had an average net contribution of approximately 10.8 billion. kr. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 13). However, it is not only true to look at the net contribution of the State, as this leaves out a significant contribution and repatriation of EU funds to municipalities, regions, private and self-owned institutions and organisations etc. I already have in an answer to parliamentary question No. 55 as from January this year, Denmark's net contribution to the EU, which, on the basis of the Commission's accounting figures, is estimated at an average of 6.4 billion. kr. Annually in the period 2006-2015. It is the Commission's accounting figures that are the current accounting method. It also states that the Commission's mid-term review proposal is likely to be adopted unchanged, which could increase Denmark's EU contribution by 4.1 billion. kr. Until 2020. Nor is that correct, as the expenditure in the Commission's proposal has been substantially reduced. This is due to a great deal of effort from Denmark and other countries responsible for the budget. The European Parliament's Committee on Foreign Affairs was informed back in December 2016 in connection with the presentation of the General Affairs Council. In addition, it should be mentioned in particular: Britain's withdrawal will certainly entail additional costs to be paid by the remaining 27 countries and that the financing key for this will be based on the current financing of Britain's EU rebate. It is not certain at all that Britain's withdrawal will entail additional expenditure to be covered by the EU-27. As mentioned, the clear approach taken by Denmark and other countries responsible for the budget is that Britain's withdrawal should not lead to increases in the EU contribution. Moreover, there has been no question whatsoever that the current approach to financing the UK's EU rebate should be used to finance a possible financing gap created by Britain's withdrawal. The EU's future level of expenditure and its financing will be discussed in the negotiation of the EU's next multiannual financial framework, which will apply from 2021. That agreement must also be adopted unanimously by all EU countries. In accordance with current practice, the government will of course obtain a negotiating mandate for this in the Parliamentary Committee on Europe. Even if the reasons for this proposal were correct, I do not think that anything good would come from Denmark's current desire to renegotiate the Danish EU contribution. As I said, both the current agreement on the EU's multiannual financial framework and the regulation on the EU's own resources have been established for a seven-year period, and all Member States have committed themselves to doing so. The agreements do not contain any provision allowing a Member State to re-open the agreements. This can only be done on a proposal from the Commission in specific cases. It is therefore not considered realistic that Denmark should renegotiate its EU contribution or the financing of Britain's rebate, as required by the motion for a resolution. Moreover, it will only weaken Denmark's credibility to suddenly start questioning the validity of agreements entered into, well to mark on a false basis. The government expects all partners to live up to agreements reached, and how could we expect this if we do not also acknowledge the agreements we are making ourselves? Against this background, the government cannot support the Danish People's Party's motion for a parliamentary resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504185740	Thank you, Minister. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504185745	I have to say that the Minister for Finance is extremely optimistic, if it is indeed the view of the Minister for Finance that, without increasing the budgets of the European Union, without increasing the contributions of the Member States of the European Union, we can collect a bill in the order of EUR 352-528 billion. kr., which is the bill you expect Britain to leave with the resignation. I must say, it's pretty well done. Having said that, I am surprised that the Minister of Finance is using so much effort to turn this into a school bit over whether we have included income for counties and municipalities etc., or whether we have looked at the state alone. Summa summarum, whether you use the finance minister's figures or our figures, there is a negative net contribution for Denmark of 6.4-10 billion. kr. So Denmark is losing money at this store. That is why I would just like to ask the Minister: is the Minister really of the opinion that we should just sit back and accept that when this period ends, when we have a discount, we should just say that we have no discount in Denmark in future? And does the Minister have any clear picture at all of what it will cost the Danish taxpayers in extra costs to the EU?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504185907	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504185908	I'm sorry if it bothers me that I care that the facts are okay. This is just how I work best, so that the things you write must also be right and correct, but of course you can have different approaches to that. Another point I disagree with, Mr President. Kenneth Kristensen Berth i, is whether Denmark serves or loses on our EU membership. It is true that we have a net contribution in relation to how much we get directly back, but in relation to what our companies have of outlets in the EU, in relation to our trade with the other EU countries, Denmark as a nation earns quite strongly that we have close economic cooperation with the 27 other countries, which unfortunately will soon become only 26 other countries. As to whether I am optimistic about how much the EU budget will be adjusted, I would say that, firstly, if Britain leaves the EU, the EU budget will have to be adjusted down. Secondly, even countries outside the European Union will also contribute to the EU's budgets if their agreement on cooperation with the European Union so requires. It is therefore far too early to draw any conclusion as to what the net position will be when Britain leaves the EU. What is important to me is what Denmark pays. Period. It is not whether we have a high basic contribution and then a discount, or whether we have a low basic contribution instead. I think most Danes really don't care if the discount is high if the start price is higher. What most people are interested in is what the bottom line is. It is therefore too early to discuss whether there should be a discount before you know what the starting point is. That is why I cannot say anything about which rebate or discount should it be if necessary. What is interesting is what the basic contribution is for Denmark, and there I fight for the Danish EU contribution to be as low as possible as necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504190057	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504190102	Nevertheless, I think the Minister is quite optimistic. Between 2000 and 2014, EU budgets doubled. The thing is, there's still a slack from the level we're at now, and then up to the 1.23 percent. of gross national product, which the EU allows to take from the nation states and spend on the EU's affairs. At the same time, we are faced with the fact that it is Holland and Denmark that are fighting from year to year to be the largest net contributor per year. residents of this enterprise. Can the Minister really not understand that there is a dissatisfaction in the Danish population about continuing to pay very, very high amounts, while other countries do not contribute to nearly the same extent?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504190145	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504190148	It is wrong to say that the European Union is taking anything. Denmark, together with the other countries, has unanimously decided which budget there is. So, based on a majority of the Danish Parliament's European Committee and the mandate there, we have chosen what we want to contribute to the European Union. Nothing's taken. We have decided what our membership quota should be in the EU association, and on this basis all 27 countries, together with Denmark, have adopted a common budget. Nobody takes us to decide what to give. Yes, the budget has increased, but I believe that what most others have noticed is that from 2000 to 2014 the European Union has been enlarged primarily by a number of poor countries that have been lifted up economically from their membership of the European Union, making our economic trade with a country like Poland significantly better. More Danish jobs have been created with trade to Poland, our exports are greater, and our economic and political relations with Poland have improved lately, it has been strongly challenged by the Polish Government, but it has improved, as has a large number of the other countries that entered the 2004 qua the fantastic enlargement agreement that the then Prime Minister had implemented.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504190304	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504190311	It is quite right, of course, as the Minister of Finance says, that part of the money we pay to the European Union can then be sought again through different arrangements. I would just like to ask the Minister for Finance whether it is the government's view that if we had the money we should be looking for back from the European Union ourselves, we would use it exactly the same way as we are doing today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504190331	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504190334	I don't think we would. I think we'd use them in a different way. But because we are using them together here, we will have the opportunity to influence what is happening in other countries as well. That is why it is a situation such as that of any political debate, namely that we should give a little of what we ourselves stand for in order to influence what the others think. That is why we are debating, for example. I would like to ask you how much is going to be devoted to structural funds or to agricultural policy. The government would like to see us cut back on the part of the EU budget that goes to agricultural policy. However, having a common agricultural policy avoids countries competing, as it were, on their own treasury accounts as to how much one can support one's own agriculture at national level. A uniform competitive situation for European agriculture is ensured. This is an example of how being together in a community makes it possible to spend the money differently, yet overall for the benefit of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504190430	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504190434	I understood that the answer was no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504190436	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504190440	I had a hard time hearing a question. So I'm just thanking you for being so ready in my communication. It is rare for me to have such clear praise for being ready in my messages.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504190449	Thank you. There are no more brief comments in this round. We now come to the rapporteurs. The first rapporteur is from the Left, and if some people wonder, it is because there is no Socialist rapporteur in this round. So we go straight to the Left • Denmark's Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504190503	Thank you. On the other hand, I can tell you that I welcome the Social Democrats and say that they agree that we should reject this motion for a resolution. I also welcome the Conservative People's Party. You also agree that we should reject the resolution. So it's just before I have a majority of the Folketing in my back. I need only a few seats. It is not every day that you experience it, although of course I fully agree that, regardless of how the Folketing is composed, it is Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, who has the right to tell us what the people think, because that is Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth and only Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, who knows what people are saying. When I read this motion for a resolution from the Danish People's Party, I couldn't help thinking: What is it with you in DF and special agreements? Why is it that you go and think that Denmark has the right to have it all for half the price? Why do you think that we can enter into agreements without complying with the requirements we expect others to comply with? I think it's worth thinking about. After all, Denmark's annual EU contribution will be determined in accordance with what is called the EU own resources regulation, and the same applies to the other countries' EU contributions. It is a regulation that was adopted unanimously by all 28 Heads of State or Government back in 2013. And then here in the Folketing we have approved it too. It happened in 2014. There is no provision in those agreements which allows a single Member State to demand that the agreements be reopened in such a way. This applies to Denmark, but this also applies to the others. This can only be done in exceptional cases on a proposal from the Commission. Despite the fact that these are the terms of the agreement we have made, the Danish People's Party now wants the government to make an official statement in the Council that the Danish Government wants to renegotiate the Danish contribution to the EU. It should then serve the purpose of preventing additional payments to the EU and renegotiating Denmark's contribution to Britain's rebate. We agree with that, I would like to make it clear that we must avoid additional costs to the EU, which is why the government is working continuously to ensure that Denmark's EU contribution is low and also as low as possible. It is a work which is carried out in accordance with the negotiating mandates which are, after all, obtained in the European Parliament's Committee on Budgets prior to the budget negotiations. In my view, that is the only right way to go about it. To conduct politics and negotiations in the way that DF is now proposing is both unconstructive and would be directly detrimental to Denmark's credibility and the reputation of Denmark. The proposals of the Danish People's Party are also based on a number of misleading and erroneous premises which make this debate even more unspeakable. That is, for example, the case. not just to look at the net contribution of the state, as this leaves out a significant take-back of EU funds to our municipalities, our regions and our own institutions. So the real net contribution is lower than DF states. And then DF forgets something when you talk about how it was said? No, we don't. Very recently it was calculated that our gross domestic product, as I remember, would be 100 billion. kr. lower annually if Danish trade with other countries was to take place on general free trade principles rather than through the EU. So it's a joke. Nor is it true that Britain's withdrawal per year. This means that the other 27 Member States will have to bear additional costs. I think it's very early, Dansk Folkeparti throws the towel in the ring. For the approach of Denmark and other countries responsible for the budget, it is that Britain's withdrawal must not lead to increases in the EU contribution. In other words, the EU must be slimmed down when Britain leaves the community. So to sum up, this proposal is an example of the fact that the Danish People's Party believes that Denmark just has such a very special status in the world • we do not have to comply with the agreements we have entered into but we do not have that. On the other hand, we are loyal, we are a good partner, who lives up to the agreements we make. We are regarded as both credible and responsible, and there is absolutely no reason for me to change that. We cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504190938	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504190942	I would like to start by saying that the fact that Denmark's largest party, the Royal High Social Democratic Party, cannot put forward with a rapporteur, and it is of course not the fault of the rapporteur of the Left, in a debate about whether Denmark should pay more or less to the European Union, is quite simply a scandal. We are used to the fact that the Conservatives do not do so, but that the Social Democrats cannot put forward with a rapporteur, I think is simply disgraceful. Now I know that there is a little extra attention to this debate, and perhaps it will also come to the disadvantage of the Social Democrats that there is when you cannot ask with a rapporteur. I think it is simply embarrassing. I would also like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur agrees that the EU's maximum income must be 1.23%. of gross national income in the EU countries. Does the rapporteur agree that the 1.23 per cent? Is a good pointer mark?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504191046	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504191049	I just didn't catch the last part of Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth's speech, because I stand and am a little shaken by the very uncollege way in which Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth mentions another party and another colleague on it. We all know that things may arise that make it possible not to come here at short notice. And now, with Mr. Knox... Kenneth Kristensen Berth turns out to be talking about how important this debate is, I would say: well, it is a motion for a resolution from the Danish People's Party, and they are in a rush, and this may not have quite the interest that Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth thinks it does.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504191133	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504191136	I'm gonna call it, as sir. Jan E. Jørgensen here expresses contempt for the rule of the people. I think it's an embarrassing behavior from Mr. Simpson. Jan E. Jørgensen's side, but he has to. I'm gonna ask Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen again, if he is of the opinion that a level of 1.23%. of GNP is the right level to finance the EU. Because if it is, sir. After all, Jan E. Jørgensen is ready to put even more money in the EU, for there is a slack from the current level and then up to the 1.23% set as the maximum level of the countries' gross national income that can be used in the EU. Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen that the 1.23 percent. Is a good number, or is it going down?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504191225	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504191228	I believe, just as I also said in my speech, that Britain's goodbye to the European Union and the fact that they no longer contribute financially to the European Union must mean that the European Union should be slimmed down to the amount that Britain put in the European Union before. In other words, we come down to having a European Union that is smaller than it is today, purely economically. The Danish People's Party should be happy about that. The tumorous remarks made by Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth starts with, I think we should just leave it alone.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504191307	Thank you, sir. Jan. E. Jørgensen from the Left. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Søren Søndergaard from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504191322	Thank you. Let me start with the positive: in the Enhedslisten, we fully agree with the proposers that employees in Denmark pay too much, too much money for the European Union. In very round figures, we can say that we pay 20 billion. kr. in a quota for the European Union, and we will get a little more than half again in the form of various subsidies. This means that we pay just less than half of the 20 billion in our net contribution. But I think it is important to add that this is only half the truth, because the billions we pay and which we get again are not really the ones we can decide for ourselves. It is money that the European Union grants us for specific purposes. Let me take one example: of the large amount of money we are sending to the European Union, we will get a lot back for the payment of agricultural subsidies, but if we could decide on these billions ourselves, it is not certain that we would use them for agricultural subsidies, at least not for conventional poison farming. Or another example: we send money to Brussels, which then decides to support a ski slope on Bornholm. Not an evil word about the ski slope on Bornholm, it is undoubtedly a fantastic project, which I believe has the recommendation of none other than the multiple world champion and slalom specialist, Alberto Tomba, who said that he particularly wanted to ski on Bornholm. But if the money had been in our own pockets, we could have let Bornholm decide for themselves whether their most burning desire in the world now was to have a ski slope. And then I do not think it helps very much that we are told from the Finance Minister that he also has an influence on how many ski slopes should be built in Malta. We are totally opposed to this pocket money society, where we must ask for some of our own money back and where we cannot even use it as we like. That is why we would very much like to discuss how to change that system. We also fully agree that the European Union could reduce its consumption enormously without any ordinary people suffering from it. In other words, with reference to a recent article in the international press, it can be said that the conversion of brothels on the German-Czech border should probably be significantly outside EU-supported areas. Apparently, you have to hear a lot before your ears fall off. But the problem is that the EU's money consumption and the Danish EU contribution are not only about these things, and the proposal is not just about these things. It is also about a Danish discount, more than it is about having the system fundamentally changed. The motion for a resolution shows that the proposers find Denmark particularly hard-treated and gives examples that we are paying much more than a number of poor countries in the European Union. Honestly, this is not the main problem for Enhedslisten. Most of the EU's revenue comes from the membership quota of the 28, soon 27, perhaps soon 26 or 25 countries. It is calculated on the basis of each country's gross national product, the so-called GNP. And that is why it is quite logical, and it is probably also very reasonable, that the richest countries pay more than the poorest countries, if you want to be a member of the club. And if you look at the net contribution from 2015, it is not the case that Denmark is making the most of our GNP. There we are being surpassed by countries such as Belgium, the Netherlands, Germany, the United Kingdom and Sweden. On the other hand, we are fully involved in discussing whether it is reasonable for countries to make very large contributions from the European Union but, at the same time, to reject any kind of solidarity effort, for example. when it was about solving the task of providing shelter for the many refugees who had come to Europe, among other things. fleeing the civil war in Syria. From the Enhedslisten, we can surely find something more sensible to spend than to stop 50 billion. kr. a year in the authoritarian regime in Hungary and over 100 billion. kr. in Poland. But that is, of course, another discussion. In conclusion, I would like to sum up that we fully share the proposers' wish for less money for the EU, but in our view the solution is not a special Danish rebate, but a fundamental change in the EU economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504191816	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504191821	We can always discuss the methods, as long as we agree on the goal. But what I really want to ask Mr. Søren Søndergaard about is in relation to this debate about discounts and the question of whether Denmark is paying what we are going to do or more than what we are going to do. I'm just gonna ask sir. Søren Søndergaard, how he looks at the instrument called discount on the UK rebate, which a number of countries have. In other words, it is Germany, the Netherlands, Sweden and Austria that have a discount on the UK rebate, which is equivalent to three-quarters of the amount they had to pay to cover the UK rebate. Now I know that Britain is on its way out of the European Union, but Mr. Søren Søndergaard indicated that there should be a certain similarity, that is to say a certain degree reasonable in relation to rich versus poor countries and the countries I just mentioned here are not poor countries; I think we can agree on that. So how does Mr. Søren Søndergaard on the fact that these countries have a pretty big discount on the UK discount and that we in Denmark have never had such a discount?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504191933	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504191935	For us, the net contribution is crucial. The Lord's ways are unsearchable, and the same is true of all those ways of calculating things in the EU, with discounts and discounts etc. So our starting point is what the net contribution is, and from the figures I have been able to find on the Danish Parliament's website, because the net contribution for 2015 is below a number of other comparable countries and even countries that are not quite as comparable, namely Belgium, the Netherlands, Germany, the UK and Sweden, i.e. in 2015. It is just like the overall picture, and from that we can only not argue why, especially in relation to e.g. Sweden or, in particular, Belgium, should be made less expensive, in other words, in relation to the total cost that the European Union has or the total amount of money that is circulating in the European Union. The task must be to reduce it, and there are two parts of it. Firstly, we must not send down money to get it back, to influence ski slopes in Malta. Secondly, we simply need a lower cost from the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504192054	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504192056	Well, there's quite a lot of it, sir. Søren Søndergaard says that we can easily agree on. What I just don't understand is that sir... Søren Søndergaard cannot agree with us that it is strange why Germany, the Netherlands, Sweden and Austria should have a special discount on the UK rebate that we do not have in Denmark. I mean, what's that after mr. Søren Søndergaard's view qualifies those four countries to get a discount on Britain's discount? After all, it is all net contributors and countries that make a large net contribution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504192132	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504192134	Surely absolutely nothing is going to go beyond the fact that when we talk about the Netherlands, Germany and Sweden, these are countries that at least in 2015 had a bigger net contribution to the EU than Denmark had; we in the committee can find the figures for 2016. It's just a fact, and I guess that's what they're gonna use. Now, let's imagine that sir... Kenneth Kristensen Berth's wish goes through. What will happen then? Then Sweden will come and say: now we pay much more, so now we want a discount too. And then that circus can go on. The problem with the European Union is not the discounts. The problem with the European Union is the fundamentally wrong way in which the economy is organised, and we want to do something about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504192222	I would like to thank Mr Seligman. Søren Søndergaard. There are no more brief comments. And I would like to welcome Mrs Christina Egelund from the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504192235	Thank you. After all, a great deal is being welcomed in these rapporteur speeches, and it was just before that the Enhedslisten's rapporteur could have just greeted from the Liberal Alliance, but now I am here, and I should therefore say for myself what we think. I think too much money is being spent in the European Union. I think that the budgets should be cut and the bill reduced. The view of the Liberal Alliance is that the Danish Government should always work for when it participates in budget negotiations with the other EU countries. Having said that, we as a country must, of course, be loyal to the agreements that we conclude with other countries, regardless of the context in which they happen. That is why we cannot support the motion for a resolution we are debating here either. In this way there is little parallelism to what is going on in the Folketing. I also think that the Danish state spends too much money. It is then the result of political negotiations and compromises, but that does not mean that, because I disagree, I do not think that the current government should live up to the agreed budgets at all times. I cannot help noticing that there is a certain duality in what DF is proposing here. At any rate, I cannot quite make it run away with the line taken by DF when it comes to the negotiations on Brexit, where DF is challenging the line taken by the EU-27 countries, namely that the settlement and bill must be settled before we can really discuss the future. This is where the Danish People's Party seems most eager that we from Denmark should almost take the British errand and get Britain a good deal. It will therefore inevitably be very expensive for the Danish taxpayers, thereby increasing the total bill which they want to reduce here. In the Liberal Alliance, we are both convinced that the government in the Brexit negotiations must take care of the interests of Danish taxpayers and that, moreover, we must stand by the agreements we are making and, in general, be a credible partner internationally that does not run from our obligations. The Liberal Alliance cannot support the motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504192440	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504192445	Thank you to Mrs Christina Egelund. In fact, I have the feeling that if Mrs Christina Egelund and Mrs Christina Egelund's party were not in government, the Liberal Alliance would have supported this proposal. But let it go. At least we hear the message from the Liberal Alliance that the amount paid by Denmark must be reduced. But if it is not to be in the form of a discount, I would like to ask Mrs Christina Egelund what it should be like. Now I would prefer not to have any answer that goes in the direction of the EU simply reducing its budgets. I would like to know: where does Mrs Christina Egelund think the EU should reduce its budgets?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504192526	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504192529	First of all to the questioner's feeling that the Liberal Alliance takes a different position in this matter than we would have if we were sitting outside the government: that is not right. I can say that, because in those cases where it is true, we are also saying it quite frankly. So that feeling is not right, because I do not think that Denmark should be such a country that makes agreements in different parts of the world and then just run away from them. It is actually quite important for us that Denmark is a credible partner and a country with which we can count on it; the agreements we make are in keeping with us. On the second question: we are not really concerned about whether the bill is reduced by a higher discount or by reducing the overall budget. I think the most logical thing is that the total cost is reduced, and that can be done, for example. I think it would be a good idea to cut back on some of the structural funds, which I think could do for a little less money.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504192622	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504192626	I would like to know how the Liberal Alliance feels about the fact that we in Denmark are more or less agreed that growth should be at 0.5%. per year, but in the EU it is growth of 1.8%. How can we, as a liberal, support a project such as the European Union, where budgets are actually running out of control? That is really what we are talking about when, year after year, we have such a great growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504192707	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504192709	When the questioner refers to the fact that we in Denmark agree that we want a growth rate of 0.5%. per I assume that the questioner believes that public expenditure will increase. That is so not true, because we do not agree on that. If we were to decide alone, we would have a minus growth in public expenditure. But we live by the fact that there is no majority for that in the Folketing, among other things. because the author's party has a different opinion. The questioner's party believes that public expenditure should be somewhat higher than the 0.5%, at least that was the last time we heard about it. And that is how it works where compromises are reached, including in the European Union. We want to reduce the state's budgets in Denmark and we also want to reduce the EU's overall budgets.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504192747	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504192751	Now Mrs Christina Egelund suggested such a degree of agreement with the Enhedslisten on this point, and now I will pursue my luck. Because I want to hear: does it also mean that the Liberal Alliance agrees that it is deeply unhealthy that many institutions in Denmark, for example. select research projects according to what can provide EU support? Because there is a lot of money in the EU that we have sent them down there ourselves. You cannot get so many from Denmark, so when you have to do a research project, one of the first criteria is therefore not whether it is sensible or not, but whether it can get EU funding or not. Is it also the view of the Liberal Alliance that it is deeply unhealthy for Denmark's development?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504192832	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504192835	In fact, I agree until the very last thing that the questioner says is that it is deeply unhealthy for Denmark's development. I think that might be crawling up a little plentiful on the rhetorical blade. However, I fully agree that it is the wrong incentive structure when organising research projects or whatever it may be, it can be all sorts of different types of projects according to what fits well into an application form for some fund in the EU. I fully agree with that. That is not what should drive how to develop different projects. I fully agree that this is the wrong incentive.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504192905	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504192907	I am really glad that the Liberal Alliance agrees with that, because there are plenty of institutions suffering from that. So, there is no money in Danish boxes, then you have to go to the EU, and then you don't take the best project, but you take the project that can get EU funding. That is why I want to hear whether it is also the view of the Liberal Alliance that we should work towards keeping part of the money we pay to the EU and now I am not talking about those who go to poor countries and everything, it is a different discussion, but those we have to seek for ourselves to get back. I believe that instead of sending that money down to the EU, we should keep it at home and then decide for ourselves what we would use it for.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504192942	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504192944	I totally agree. So, as I said clearly in my rapporteur's speech, I think that we should cut the EU's budgets and build artificial incentives for how to spend money, and, of course, there is a lot of money trading from one country to another to the third country, which is totally illogical. So, yes, I think we should cut the EU's budgets, keep the money at home, and then we can probably have some good debates in this Chamber about what to spend it on. A good command from here would be to give them all the way back to the citizens. The questioner may not agree with that, but as far as what the questioner outlined is concerned, we are in any case in agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504193025	Thank you to Mrs Christina Egelund and I would like to know whether Mrs Pernille Schnoor is the rapporteur on this matter. She's not. Then we move on to Mrs Zenia Stampe from the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504193040	I have the honour not only of speaking on behalf of myself and the Radicals today but also of speaking on behalf of the Alternative. It is, of course, a great responsibility, but I hope I can live up to trust. For us, it is important that the European Union is a cooperation in which we can trust each other and count on each other, and that is why, of course, we also stand by the agreements reached by Denmark, the Danish Government and the Danish Parliament. After all, it is also about the agreement on our contribution, that is to say about the EU's own resources, which have also been ratified here in the Folketing, and this also applies, of course, to the EU budget or the multiannual financial framework. These are agreements which we have concluded and which we stand by and which, moreover, we do not have the opportunity to open, because that possibility does not exist in a purely legal way. Then we also think that the timing is incredibly bad. Now, of course, we in the Danish Parliament have talked on several occasions about Brexit, Great Britain and the negotiations on the settlement division, and there is no doubt that this is a huge challenge for the European Union. Therefore, there is no doubt that if we go to the European Union and say that we are going to open up the dogfight of the contribution, then we are making it even harder to negotiate a proper agreement which is both for the benefit of Britain and the European Union, and for that reason alone we would also think that this was an incredibly bad time to raise such a debate. That is why we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504193212	There are a number of brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504193219	I should just like to express my regret at the fact that the alternative had not asked me to present it so that I could have had more than 90 seats in my back, and then say nothing more.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504193231	There were no comments. Then we will take the next brief remark, and it is from Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504193239	I would also like to take this opportunity to congratulate Mrs Zenia Stampe on her success in bringing together two thirds of the old Radical Left on the platform. That's great. I would actually have liked to ask the alternative question, because the alternative has been the only party that has been in favour of giving more money to the EU, among other things. Seen in the Committee on European Affairs so they are missing a little. But peace be with it, it's a small party, so I understand that can fail. I would actually like to ask Mrs Zenia Stampe about this, about how Mrs Zenia Stampe views the possibility that we can maintain or limit the Danish net contribution to the European Union. What is needed from the point of view of Mrs Zenia Stampe, so that we can get there? The Radical Left was also sceptical about the extra bill that was presented to us in the European Committee this autumn.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504193333	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504193336	Yes, in the first place and on the very short track, it acts among other things. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report, which is a very good one, and I would like to thank him for his excellent report. On the one hand, the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party and the Danish People's Party felt that it was necessary to assume that there should be no criminal action against Britain and, on the other hand, that it should be understood that it was a criminal act simply to stick to the fact that, of course, they have to pay the money they have undertaken to pay, and then we had to ask: who should then pay the bill? Because it can't be in Denmark's interest for that bill to be placed on all EU-27 countries. But one had to understand that it was the position of the Danish People's Party that so far we had to go, sacrifice ourselves for Britain and pay part of their bill, because it should not be too hard for Britain to resign from the European Union. So I can tell you, sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, that what I want to hold onto to ensure that Denmark does not have to make a major contribution is then that Britain is allowed to pay its own bill and that it does not fall on the Danes' table.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504193453	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504193457	After all, Mrs Zenia Stampe, this is a short period of time, because no matter how you do it, there is an expiry called 2023, where we are no longer able to ask Britain to spit in the box to the extent that the European Union is. So the question is that after 2023 that bill must be picked up, and that is where I am looking for some answers to what the EU-enthusiastic parties are pointing to when it comes to lowering that bill, because there must be some concrete things about which they say that this will be sorted out.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504193537	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504193540	Then I think it is important for the European Union to be united in these negotiations with Britain, so that we get a good agreement for the European Union so that we can get a good agreement for Denmark. That is why it is not profitable for us to start arguing among ourselves about the possible extra bill, which we are not at all sure we will end up with, but if there is a gap, then it is stupid of us 27 remaining to sit around and be unfamiliar with that gap instead of spending our energies on a negotiation with the UK, from which the EU-27 will, as a whole, escape as well as possible, so that any extra bill will be as small as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504193618	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504193621	I also have a number of questions for the alternative, but that would probably be going too far. But now it is a motion for a resolution, and we can afford to take that with EU funding a little bit around it, which is why I would like to hear if the radical rapporteur, in short terms, would, of course, try to explain whether the Radical Left is satisfied with the way the economy is screwed up in the European Union or whether, in the long term, there is a desire for major structural changes. It may be more money for the Member States, less that is distributed back, that is to say being redistributed to the same countries, it may be less redistribution between countries, it may be other things. So, what are radicals thinking about the EU's economic way of being screwed up?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504193709	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504193712	This is a motion for a resolution about Denmark going to the European Union right now and asking for the Danish contribution and a discount to be renegotiated. This is not a motion for a resolution on the European Union's general economic system. I think we should take that debate on the day it is on the agenda, and we can also take it in the Committee on European Affairs, but that is not what is under discussion today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504193737	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504193741	No, no, I have complete respect for the fact that the rapporteur will not go along with it. I just think that what is the underlying idea of the proposal from the Danish People's Party is that too much is being paid to the European Union, and I therefore think that any party that has prepared for this debate will also have considered whether they agree and whether, if they do not agree with the model of the Danish People's Party, they may have some other models. But okay, we'll take the discussion in other contexts.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504193810	Then we say thank you to Mrs Zenia Stampe, and I will see if there is a SF who has the rapporteur on this matter. There isn't. Then we have exhausted the opportunity to get rapporteurs from the parties, and then we have the opportunity to hear the rapporteur for the proposers, Mr President. Kenneth Kristensen Berth. While he is moving up here, I must say that we in the Presidency do not hope that this process of fewer and fewer parties will develop. It is a very good thing if all parties are present.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504193844	In 2014, the then government negotiated a discount of 1 billion. kr. per Years for Denmark on our membership of the European Union. This was a fixed-term discount applicable in the period 2014-2020. In other words, the discount will lapse again. This is not the case with many of the other discounts that are in the EU system. The rebate, which is called the UK rebate, which Germany, Sweden, the Netherlands and Austria have, for example, is. as a starting point not timed. Now, of course, Britain has resigned, but there is hardly any doubt that those countries will retain the right to a rebate on EU budgets. In relation to the Danes, it has to be said that it was only missing, because we are among those who contribute the most to the EU per year. citizen. 10.8 billion kr. The Danish state lost in isolation on our membership of the EU money, which, of course, among other things. is used to build up other EU countries. The discount of 1 billion. kr., which the then Social Democratic-led government negotiated, has only been implemented in 2016, and because of the increasing contribution rates in the intervening period, the Danish contribution has since increased so much that the discount has actually been eroded. So we have not really saved anything; we have just been allowed to pay a little less into the EU's coffers than we would otherwise have done. And that doesn't go in the long run. In Denmark we are subject to a budgetary ceiling. The European Union is telling us how much money we can afford to spend. In its 2025 plan, the Government proposed that public service expenditure in Denmark should increase by no more than 0.5%. annual. In the EU, total EU commitments from 2016 to 2017 increased by 1.8%. It is not right for us in Denmark to stop financing our welfare society while at the same time the EU is having a consumer party. The EU's budgets have just increased and increased. From 2000 to 2014, the European Union's revenue, that is, what we Member States pay to the European Union, has doubled, and it can be much worse, because there is still room for the European Union to spend even more money because the European Union has not yet reached the point where 1.23% is spent. of countries' gross national income. The European Commission has even set out to blow up this framework so that the European Union will be able to spend even more money. The EU consumer celebration at the expense of European citizens simply has to be stopped. This is where we must also mention Great Britain, because Britain is the second largest contributor to the EU, not as large as Denmark per year. But since Britain is a rather larger country, Britain is also contributing more money. When the British join the EU, the EU will be short of money in the box, and it is not Britain, as I said, that has received the money; it is a number of other countries. The United Kingdom contributed 14 per cent. of the EU budget in 2016, and the bill for Britain leaving the EU, in 2023 will be somewhere between 350 and 530 billion. kr. It is money that must be found, either through other countries having to pay more or through cuts. I am well aware that the majority of parties here in the Danish Parliament intend to adopt a line that is about finding savings in the European Union, but there is no doubt that there are countries that are very reluctant to see savings in the Structural Funds programmes that have been mentioned, or on agricultural subsidies, which are also used to be one of the traversies dragged forward when pointing to places where money can be saved. There are a number of countries in the European Union that are net beneficiaries of amounts from the European Union, and those countries will certainly not receive less money. That is why we can take the bull by the horns first as well as last on the Danish side and announce that it is the end of paying for other EU countries that will not implement the reforms and structural changes needed to survive in the twenty-first century. We must not continue to pay to countries such as Greece, Spain and Portugal without getting anything back. Those countries must start taking responsibility for themselves instead of receiving continuous transfers from the EU. We could have sent that signal clearly from the Danish Parliament today by advocating and voting in favour of the Danish People's Party's proposal, thus requiring the government to inform the Council that we wanted to renegotiate the Danish contribution to the EU in order to have a real undetermined time. Transfers to South and Eastern Europe must be cut. We must demand that those countries set up their pension systems, work systems and social systems in a more appropriate and up-to-date manner. It was actually my expectation that a broad circle of parties would support it, but I understand that is not the case. I understand that most parties are more or less in favour of Denmark not having to pay any more, but we can see how the rebate we negotiated at the end was overtaken by reality, so we are now paying even more money to the European Union. I have to say on behalf of the Danish People's Party that the curve must be broken. After all, I also hope that the Minister for Finance is prepared to do so, even though the Minister for Finance is convinced of the European Union's support and globalist. But I would like to thank the rapporteurs who took part in the Chamber and then I hope that the signal given today will be heard from the government and that the government will let the signal be heard in Brussels: we will pay no more in Denmark!
ParlaMint-DK_20170504194530	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504194535	We will have that discussion another time, but I must honestly admit that I think that the Danish People's Party's analysis of the coherence of the European Union is somewhat simplistic, in other words in relation to those countries which have a strong currency, which are artificially held down by being in cooperation with exporting countries such as Germany, Denmark, which have a low currency qua euro and the bonding to the euro, and which have enormous benefits from the cooperation with the countries that keep the currency down on export markets. But we can take that discussion another time. I just want to ask the Danish People's Party to explain why you're so obsessed with that discount, because I can't understand that. It is quite a coincidence that this debate is being tackled in relation to a country, even a country which is on its way out. The reality is, if we take the 2015 figures, that there were a number of countries that contributed more to the EU compared to their GNI than we did, and what is the point of having a special discount? Everyone can't get a discount because that doesn't make any sense. Why is it not a general change in the economic system in the EU that the Danish People's Party puts on the agenda, as we do in the Enhedslisten?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504194651	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504194654	As far as I can see, Denmark is either the largest or the second largest net contributor in recent years. Then you can always ask why we don't have a basic fight with this. To put it very clearly, it is because I do not believe in it. I simply do not believe that we can fundamentally change the colossal nature of the European Union and the way the European Union is financially financed. I believe that if you stump enough in the ground, there is enough controversy that Margaret Thatcher was at the time when she established the British rebate, you can get through with something. However, although I wish I could say that I believed in it, I simply do not believe that the big tanker that the European Union is in this area can be reversed. I think there will be a great fight when it comes to finding out how to clean up after the British resignation. I really hope that the Minister for Finance will then take the knuckle iron with him and perhaps also a crowbar and a little more, because there will certainly be a need to really sharpen the elbows if it is the case that Denmark should not get out of that fight with a huge extra bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504194802	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504194806	As I recall, the EU budget, the seven-year financial framework, must be adopted unanimously. What is it that does that, sir? Kenneth Kristensen Berth takes the view that a country like Sweden, a country like Germany, a country like Belgium, a country like the Netherlands, which contributes more to the EU than we did in 2015, should accept it? What is it that gives the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party the belief that it is even possible to work for a general change? One can say that neither is possible, and then there is a conclusion, and we have reached that conclusion, but I do not really know what is the position of the Danish People's Party on that issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504194856	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504194859	The fact is that there are a lot of countries that are net beneficiaries, and they are also sitting on relatively many votes gradually. And of course there will be some countries that Denmark will be able to join in the fight about how we distribute the bill after the British resignation, but we just have a bad starting point. Because if we look at the way the discount schemes are arranged today, then the four countries are taken into account for time indefinite and Denmark for time indefinite. That is to say, there are four countries that can go to the negotiations with a legitimate expectation not to have to pay the full amount that they would actually have to pay in relation to the economic ratios that determine that fact. That is why, I think, we are in a very vulnerable position when it comes to how that bill is distributed. Maybe I'm wrong, but it's my observation that we're very exposed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504195003	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. That brings us to the end of the debate. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on European Affairs. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504195023	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 9 May 2017. The rapporteur for the questioners, Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, has the opportunity to explain the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504195102	Thank you. The head of the hospital in the maternity ward sent his resignation in the autumn on the official and public grounds that he could no longer vouch for the quality due to too tight budgets. He has since explained in various contexts that the current economic system, economic governance, has hit the wall, not least in relation to the efficiency requirement of 2%. The same signal has been sent by the staff. So you can't give birth to 2%. In other words, we cannot ask Mrs Hansen to handle the toilet visit more quickly year after year. faster year after year. In the end, therefore, this means that the staff are constantly behind. An agreed general meeting in Danske Regionser sent an unequivocal signal in April that the 2-percent productivity requirement has survived itself and that alternative economic models are needed. It is also in this light that SF has chosen to raise this question debate on the forthcoming budget negotiations with Danske Regions. I hope that in his reply the Minister will in particular comment on the 2-percent productivity requirement in the answer to the question, which reads as follows: What can the Minister say about the forthcoming agreement between Danske Regions and the government about the region's economy for 2018 etc.?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504195230	Thank you. Then the answer has arrived, and it is the Minister for Finance who will be responsible for it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504195237	When Mrs Kirsten Normann, in her explanatory statement for the question, mentions the National Hospital's maternity department, I look forward to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen in her rapporteur's speech making a careful examination of the resources available for the National Hospital's maternity department, in relation to how many births there have been and what historical developments there have been over time. I look forward to hearing that again from Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen up here from Parliament's platform. In the meantime, I have been asked to explain what I can tell you about the negotiations. I am, of course, happy to do so, but I am slightly in the same situation as the last time SF asked me a question, and that was the question about the negotiations on the municipal economy, namely that the negotiations have not started yet. After all, negotiations between the government and an external party are taking place exactly between the government and the external party, and we therefore have a situation in which I shall discuss with Danske Regions and their negotiating staff what the economy should be like. That is why it is limited what I can tell you today about a future agreement, because an agreement means that two parties have agreed. However, in line with what has just been said, I would like to outline the overall framework for the forthcoming economic negotiations. The starting point for the economic negotiations on the overall framework for the public economy and the region's economy for 2018 shall be determined taking into account economic development. If we look at the Danish economy as a whole, we can see that right now we are experiencing a recovery with increasing growth, falling unemployment and strong growth in employment. In each of the years after 2009, we have had growth in our GDP. Private employment is rising sharply and unemployment is at its lowest level for 40 years, except in 2007 and 2008, when the Danish economy was overheated. This is basically a positive development and something that we should welcome, not least as it also means that more and more people are getting into jobs and thus moving from public support to self-sufficiency. It is still important to stress that we continue to have deficits in public finances and that, although the prosperity of the Danish economy in isolation strengthens the public balance, it is a bottom-up task for us to gradually reduce the deficit in the coming years. This is not least necessary in the light of the demographic developments that we can see, with more elderly people and fewer people standing for support in the coming years. It is important to stress here that the government wants to pursue a responsible economic policy. This also means that fiscal policy must be organized accordingly. There is currently a need for restraint in fiscal policy so that economic policy fits the business cycle. Indeed, we must ensure that we have a sustainable recovery in the Danish economy and we must address the risks of overheating and bottlenecks in the labour market. As I have said before, we should not go back to the '00s when the crisis got worse because we saw a period when public spending ran out of control. At the same time, the Government's ambition is that total public expenditure should be a smaller part of the economy. The Government's objective is that basic growth in public consumption should, as a starting point, be 0.3 per cent. In addition, there are the priorities that will be possible through reform, for example. an SU reform. Reforms must help to transform the public sector so that it contributes where it is most needed. Overall, the message is that the financial framework for the public sector in the coming years will be tight, even if we succeed in further increasing the priority space through reforms. Sustainability is a necessary condition, as a healthy public economy is a prerequisite for us to create growth and development throughout Denmark. It is also necessary for us to have the possibility of maintaining a strong welfare society in the future. Of course, in the negotiations on the economy of the regions, it is also important to look at the overall economic situation in the health sector and for the regions. There is no doubt that health is a priority area for the government. In 2016, the V government added 2.4 billion to health. DKr, of which the regions received the vast majority, including for information purposes at increasing cost of medicine. In addition, the 2017 Finance Act included a Cancer Plan IV, which totals nearly EUR 15 billion. kr. for 2017-2020, including: with the aim of increasing the capacity for diagnostics and treatment in the regions. Finally, if we look down in the accounts of the regions for 2016, we can see that it also looks quite reasonable. The region's accounts for 2016 are therefore approx. 300 million kr. in the 2016 budget of approx. 107,7 billion kr. In fact, it is a lower consumption that is greater than the lower consumption that was in 2015. At the same time, there are no longer indications of a marked pressure on medical costs and activity increases in hospitals, as has been the case in previous years. It dampens the pressure for additional funds for the hospitals. This must be compared with the opportunities available for better capacity utilisation and better workflows. Among other things: the new super hospitals will be completed in the years to come, and this means great additional benefits, because the new constructions make it possible to organise patients' treatment much better for the benefit of patients, but also for the benefit of the economy. The overall picture is therefore a calm and subdued development of expenditure. Another important part of the economy of the regions concerns investment. This includes, among other things: the quality fund-supported hospital buildings, the so-called super-sickhouses, where, towards 2022 overall, priority is given to investments for more than 48 billion. kr. Buildings are of high quality, as they are the cornerstone of the future organisation of our health care, and in recent years, therefore, the region's construction framework has also been historically high. However, construction makes demands, demands great responsibility on the part of the regions, so that we have realistic drainage profiles. This is because, as has already been said, there is a need for adjustments which are in line with a sound stabilisation policy and adapted to the economic situation. In addition, there is currently a global challenge to reduce the public investment already planned in buildings and installations to the levels financed in the projection, or to put it another way: when the government took over the government in 2015, construction projects were planned for 5 billion. kr. more than was financed, and this will have to be adjusted down unless new funding can be obtained by extending the scope through reforms. The message is therefore that the regions must help to reduce public investment to a sustainable level and give priority to quality fund-supported construction at a realistic level. The economic priorities of health care go hand in hand with a requirement for regions to modernise and realise opportunities for efficiency. The health sector is characterised by considerable technological development, new methods of treatment, new hospitals and new medicines. It provides a basis for solving the tasks better and cheaper. In the field of health, the tool is a requirement for overall productivity improvements of 2%. It is supported by a number of analyses of the basis for efficiency improvements and reprioritisation. Then an analysis has been made of the administration of the regions which indicates that the proportion of administrative staff is increasing and represents an increasing proportion of total staff. Therefore, better capacity utilisation, better procurement and a re-prioritisation of administration to patients' health are essential themes for economic negotiations. There is currently a lot of debate on health governance, including a number of stakeholders who have been critical of the productivity requirement. Just to make it absolutely clear: the health area is a central focus area for the government, and we take no money from the hospitals on the contrary. On the contrary, the current new money and more money are being added, so it is a big misunderstanding if anyone believes that the requirement of productivity and activity management are about taking money from someone. The requirement for productivity and activity management shall support the gains which, inter alia, include: is from new technologies and new, better forms of treatment are also being implemented. Having said that, we must, of course, develop and improve governance. Can we, for example, do this? In order to take better account of the overall course of a patient rather than of the individual's hospital visits, can we oblige both hospital and general practice to deliver what is, overall, most beneficial to patients? This is something we are investigating, and that is why the government is now launching a comprehensive review of health governance. We are doing this to ensure that the framework for health development is in place. In the work we will shed light on what is working in the current governance and what can be improved. It will be a thorough work and we will not be jumping to conclusions or falling into easy headlines, which may tend in the debate on health governance. So it is not a small task that is being tackled, and therefore it is important for me to stress that the aim of the government is more quality rather than timing. This means that in our cooperation with Danske Regionser, we will be actively in favour of seeking a model that meets both Danske Regioner's position on finding other and better management tools, but which also guarantees that you really have a hand in business and management. And that requires a piece of work that I think is important to follow through, even more important than doing so within a certain date. In conclusion, I would like to emphasise that we are looking forward to the forthcoming negotiations with the Danish Regions. As I said, the health sector is an important priority for the government, as we have shown in several rounds with the initiatives we have taken and the means we have provided. At the same time, it is also important in the field of health that we make the best use of resources and capacity. That's why we're gonna be together with, uh... Danish Regions ensure that we get as much health as possible for the money. This is central to the continued development of our healthcare services for the benefit of patients.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504200313	Thank you. Then we move on to the negotiations. The first is the rapporteur for the questioners, and that is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504200321	Thank you. Every day thousands of people come to the Danish hospitals for one single purpose: to help citizens who need help for a while for birth, for treatment, for care and for relief. They're doing an amazing job. I don't think it's allowed to clap in the Chamber, but they really deserve a big hand. So do a lot of patients. Above all, however, they deserve our trust and our listening to them. When they say they're running too fast and they're hurting patients, they're running too fast, and they're hurting patients. That's what patients say, by the way. The Danish health service is world-class. Specialist plans and national goals have helped ensure that we can all count on the best treatment wherever we are treated in Denmark. When I was very young, I cared for patients who had the gallbladder removed during surgery. It was a very complicated operation that gave large surgical wounds and a subsequent care course of 14 days in the hospital. Today the same operation can be handled in a very short time with very small operating holes, and often the surgery can be handled in day surgery. This is a good example of how new technology can result in a more gentle and much cheaper treatment. In the same way, the thesis plan has meant that we do not always have a hospital in the neighborhood, but we needed more specialists, and many of the small hospitals today have special special specialties. And when the citizens' base is an entire region, you also have the opportunity to solve a particular task so many times that you can actually call yourself a specialist. This makes great sense, but above all we had reduced the huge waiting lists that we boxed with in the 00s, and in the SF we are particularly pleased that specialization has also helped to stop demand in private hospitals. However, it is also a fact that since 2003 hospitals have had budgets regulated with a requirement for an efficiency of 2%. It goes without saying that there will be a time when rationalization opportunities have been used up. There aren't any more specialties that we can add up immediately. And there is no immediate new technology that blinks outside. Government productivity requirements of 2%. means, after 10 years, that the same staff has to raise 22 per cent. More tasks. There we are today. In 10 years' time, we will be up to the same staff to raise 49%. More tasks. We need to find new ways. Unfortunately, there was little hope in the Prime Minister's response to the regions at the regional general meeting, on the contrary. The Prime Minister stuck to the old methods, despite the fact that the signals from both employees, patients and politicians were clear: Away with the 2-percent requirement. It's untenable. 2% is not a misunderstanding. Savings at 2%. is not a misunderstanding. At least it is the opinion of both the regions and the hospital managers and the staff that productivity requirements are 2%. means more and more savings, and you have to run stronger and stronger. It's forced the hospitals to chop a heel and cut a toe. In response to the Minister for Finance's question, it is said that this also applies to the National Hospital's maternity department, which had to settle for something close to the half-DRG tariff because money was needed elsewhere. It simply means that we get something other than what we think we will get. I therefore hope that there will be a majority in the Folketing in order to abolish the 2-percent requirement. I have listened to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party presenting a text for adoption which actually supports the 2% efficiency requirement. must be removed, and the SF will back that up.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504200727	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jacob Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504200731	Thank you to the rapporteur for the introduction. I heard the SF's rapporteur say that there is no new technology or anything blinking ahead. Is it therefore the SF's view that all new developments, new technologies, innovation, new thinking in the field of health have simply reached its peak right now?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504200757	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504200758	It is SF's view that when the hospital managers, the regions, the staff say that we have hit the wall, that we have picked the low-hanging fruits and that there are no new efficiency potentials immediately, we have to agree with them. At least we could start there. So this means that SF believes that since we have hit the wall, there is therefore a need to use some new control mechanisms. This does not mean that we cannot forever be more efficient. This does not mean that we cannot begin to solve the tasks in a different way forever. But if it were to free up some resources, it seems that they are also really badly needed out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504200844	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504200845	I agree with this with the new governance mechanisms. That is also what the Minister of Finance said he was also, so I am also pr. definition agrees with that. Does this mean, however, that SF believes that all productivity gains are in a company, or is it in an organization, or is it in a hospital, as a result of the corresponding faster running of the employees? Now we were talking about this 2-percent increase in productivity. Does this mean that the productivity gains that we will see in the future, if there is one, are only achieved by the fact that staff are running faster, or could we imagine that some of the productivity gains that we have seen over the last many years in the field of health actually come from new technology, new opportunities, new workflows, new learning, and that this is not just because staff are running faster? They run fast; I fully agree with that, but it is not only for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504200937	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504200939	I do not wish to deny at all that in the future there may also be improvements in efficiency resulting from the use of new working methods, for example. I could also take part in the fact that it might give rise to the possibility of considering what the money would be used for, but I think we would do well, in relation to the economic agreements of the future, to make sure that we actually reap the savings before we spend the money. Right now, we're doing the opposite. We spend the money first, and then we ask the staff to pick up the rationale afterwards. This very often means that the staff will run stronger. And when the staff say they're running stronger, I kind of believe it. In fact, I think there have been many good examples of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504201021	Thanks to the questioner. Then it's mr. Erik Christensen from the Social Democratic Party, who has the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504201033	We have much to be proud of when it comes to the Danish health care system, among other things. Our hospitals, which last year treated a very, very large proportion of the Danish population. We can also see that, over the last 10 years, there have been significant improvements in our hospital system. The waiting times for treatment are historically low, and the survival of cancer and other life-threatening diseases has significantly improved over the past 10 years. This has happened while productivity has on average increased by 2.4 per cent. per year since 2003. Today, the hospitals provide 33 per cent. more for the same budget than in 2003, when the demand for 2% increase in productivity and the so-called activity management of hospitals were introduced. However, concerns have been expressed on several sides that one of the consequences of the increased efficiency requirement is that hospitals do what is most beneficial to hospitals and not what is most beneficial to patients. This is of course worrying, especially when we have the prospect of increasing pressure on our health system as a result of a higher proportion of the elderly and people with chronic diseases. This requires that we have a stronger focus on preventing disease and disease deterioration, and that we ensure better coherence in the processes also across healthcare. In other words, there is a need for an increased focus on things that do not generate profits in the productivity account. An example that the experts point to is knee surgery. If a patient can choose a training program rather than a knee surgery, a lot of the training path is chosen, which often works just as well. I can give you an example from my own world. With the advanced age I have, and with many years of sport behind me, my hips are becoming rather worn out, but instead of an operation, the help of physical therapy and training exercises is actually an excellent alternative to surgery. But with these examples there is indeed the problem that then productivity falls in hospitals, and in this way the operation can be the easy choice from the hospital. Thus there is much evidence that the hospitals are doing more treatments and examinations and controls year by year, but the result is not necessarily a higher quality for patients. That is why the question also needs to be asked: whether the requirement for productivity and activity management, with almost 15 years on the back, is also the answer to the challenges facing hospitals in the future, where, among other things, as I mentioned, more elderly people and more chronic sick people demand better coherence across the healthcare system, so that patients will have a better hospital system. That is why the Social Democratic Party has also proposed a rethinking of the management model in the hospital area, but I would like to state that we will not abolish the productivity requirement until we have a concrete and well-worked estimate of what should be replaced. Everything else is simply irresponsible. We need better coherence and more value for the individual without the budget being blown up. That is why we also believe that the government should be in the working clothes and, as soon as possible, initiate a process of making a thorough and well-worked proposal for a new and more balanced governance model. That is why I am also pleased that, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, the Left, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives, I can propose the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the government is about to launch negotiations with Danske Regions on the region's financial framework for 2018. The Folketing supports the system of agreements and the economic agreements which the current government enters into with the regions at all times. The Danish Parliament calls for the government to seek an agreement on the region's economy for 2018, which supports the continued development of health care characterised by a balanced focus on activity, quality and patient safety, so that patients are provided with health and value, while ensuring a good working environment for their employees, as well as within the framework of a responsible economic policy. Following the debate on the adverse effects of the productivity requirement of 2%. Parliament calls on the government to initiate a review of the governance in the field of health, which will highlight what works and does not work in the current governance, and on this basis come up with proposals for better governance in the future. • V 94).
ParlaMint-DK_20170504201438	Thank you. It has given rise to a number of brief comments and the first is from Mrs Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504201445	First of all, I would like to thank the Social Democrat rapporteur for being so clear. Social democracy will not support the abolition of productivity requirements here and now. In other words, it is really a wet cloth on the heads of all the regional councillors who unanimously said that it is necessary to ensure that our hospitals are properly managed. And it really is also a wet cloth in the head of those staff organisations which, overall, say that the requirement of productivity is deeply damaging to patients and deeply harmful to the working environment. So I would just like to make that comment when the Social Democrat rapporteur talks about what is responsible, that it is deeply irresponsible to continue with the policy we now have and to continue to ask staff to run even more closely with the mistakes that may arise, with the time pressure imposed on staff, with the patient safety that results from it. So why does the Social Democratic Party not listen to all the people who work in hospitals in everyday life, the regions, the patients, the staff organisations, who agree that it is necessary to abolish the productivity requirement here and now?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504201559	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504201600	I think that we are listening, and that is why I said in my speech that we think there is a need to see whether there is a need for a new governance model. But I simply do not think it is responsible to say that we are discarding one model of governance until we have another model to replace. That is economically irresponsible, and I believe that we, as Parliament, are also responsible for the fact that there is, what we should say, control of the economy. That is also our responsibility. And I also said in my speech that there is a need to look at whether the governance model that is now is the right one, but we also need to have a thoroughly worked-out model that can stand instead, and I do not think that there is.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504201639	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504201640	It is actually very simple, because what the Social Democrat rapporteur says is that we have a model that does damage to our health care I want to continue that model. That's irresponsible. This means that we are going to see a worse health service. On the other hand, one could choose to follow the proposal that comes from the organisations in the field and from Danske Regions, who say: We pause the productivity requirement; we choose to control this area by saying that we have a fixed framework that we currently have for 99%. of health care, and it will then be 100 per cent. of health care, so that we do not do any further damage to our health care until, in 1, 2, 3 years, we may be able to introduce another form of governance model. Why does the Social Democratic Party not follow the advice of the organizations in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504201724	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504201725	Now I would say that Kirsten Normann Andersen, who was just up here, actually said that we had one of the world's best hospital beings. So what is the problem with the management model we have today is, in relation to some of the examples I gave, i.e. that sometimes it happens that, in order to meet the productivity requirement, some methods are used which may not always be for the best of the patient, but are best in relation to the management model we have. And that's why we've set up a plan that we'd like to see if you can find another model. But until such a different model exists, we do believe that it is irresponsible not to use it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504201802	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504201805	Thank you. Well, I would also like to thank you for your clear speech, because over the past few months some people have been given the impression that perhaps the Socialists were on the right side in the fight here. We are then told and confirmed here that it is not the Social Democrats. But I would like to ask the rapporteur: how does it rhyme with the statements made by the rapporteur's colleague, Mr Seligman? Flemming Møller Mortensen, who said on 29 December: we have reached a place where the staff simply cannot run stronger. We have also reached a point where, on many occasions, the best is not done for the patient, but instead we do the best for the system. Flemming Møller Mortensen, health rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party, stressed that this should never be the case. Does the rapporteur agree with his colleague?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504201907	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504201908	I am just trying to take a few more sentences from the speech I just made: that is why the Social Democratic Party has proposed a rethink of the management model in the hospital area. We do not want to abolish the productivity requirement until we have a concrete and well worked out proposal for what should be replaced. At the same time, I mentioned examples of what Mr. Finn Sørensen says that sometimes it happens that methods are used which are more beneficial to the system than for the benefit of the patient. I also mentioned this in my rapporteur's speech. But I insist: we cannot abolish one model until we have someone else to replace.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504201939	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504201940	So I'm just asking, how responsible is that? For the rapporteur probably agrees with the first part of Flemming Møller Mortensen's statement that it simply does not go any further. That's what the staff say. So while the rapporteur imagines that in some distant future another steering instrument might be available, the demands for staff to run more and more steadily year by year, with the result that there are even more demands for poor working conditions, that patients receive worse and worse treatment, because the staff simply cannot keep up. How responsible is that?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504202022	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504202023	Before mr. Finn Sørensen gets the Danish health service all the way down under the floorboards, I just want to say that all the studies in the individual hospitals show that there is a very, very great satisfaction on the part of the patients in relation to the hospital system. So don't talk our hospital department down below the floorboards. I have said that we would like to take a look at a new model of governance. I think that was also reflected in the text of the adoption... but we need to have a new model before we can abolish the other one. I think that is actually a responsible policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504202051	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504202052	Thank you. Don't make the impression on the Social Democratic Party that all the professional groups are shouting guardly in arms, i.e. that HK, the Medical Association, the Health Cartel, FOA etc. etc. Says: Now we can't run any more, we can't run any stronger? You can't make it more efficient when you're already squeezing off in the halls. One of the areas where expenditure is running out of control is the cost of medicines. Is the Social Democratic Party prepared to take up a fight with the explosive price increases that we see in the pharmaceutical sector, in other words in the pharmaceutical companies which are involved in price formation? Because that's where it really explodes. After all, we cannot keep telling the professional groups that they run 30 km/h, and then they have to streamline 2%. Every year and run even stronger. That's not where we can wring more out of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504202153	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504202154	I think that I have now said on several occasions that we have proposed a new approach to the whole governance model, and we are, in fact, firmly committed to that. That is also why we are in relation to the text of the proposal for adoption that I just read out, namely that we should try to see if we can find another model. But it is still not gone in any other situation either that, if you have a model of governance, you reject it before you have anything else to put in place. That is quite common sense and responsible policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504202225	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504202226	I just think that the text that the rapporteur read did not make much sense. It was a matter of course that we are now awaiting an agreement negotiated by the government and so on. etc., and that is why I am more specifically asking about it. After all, the current management model is an efficiency requirement of 2%. 2% Does not sound so much to anyone's ears, but it will mean over 20 years that 49 per cent will be needed. multiple treatments with the same hands.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504202258	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504202259	Either I've been very bad at reading, or something went wrong on the way down, because I don't think it's obvious. We can take the final section: Parliament invites the government to initiate a review of the governance in the field of health, which will highlight what works and does not work in the current governance, and on that basis come up with proposals for better governance in the future. What are the facts? I can't see that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504202329	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504202331	Thank you. I stand by the fact that we have a world-class health service, but I would also like to stress that it is not because of, but despite, the demand. The chairman of the regions, a good social democrat who is close to the actual conditions in hospitals, says that there is a need for the abolition of the 2-percent productivity requirement now. I understand that both he and the staff get a basket of Social Democracy, but is it responsible to stand by and would it not be more responsible at least to choose a temporary solution over no solution?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504202412	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504202414	I have to say that Finn Sørensen also said: in the distant future. It is not, of course, a question of the distant future. My expectation is that the government will work very quickly and look at an alternative model of governance for what we have. I still have to maintain that I do not think it is financially responsible policy on the part of the Danish Parliament to say that the governance model we have now is rejected before we have anything else to replace it. I simply do not think that would be financially responsible.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504202446	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504202447	I myself have been in the public sector for many years now, so when the Social Democrats are talking about the process right now, I am thinking of an old-fashioned jar of jam. And is it true that this process must be seen in the context of the government's cohesion reform?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504202507	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504202508	The text does not say anything about that. I have also been employed for many years in the public sector, and I have also been a local politician for many years, and I would say that this certainly is not the expression of a jelly jar on our part.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504202521	Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504202523	Thank you. Following that, I would like to hear about something. 84% In a study just published in Today's Medicine, the doctors, in other words 506 doctors, want to get rid of the requirement of productivity and believe that it has an impact on the way the treatment takes place. I just want to know if it's a little bit vague to say that it would be good to look at this and to start a process? I just heard the rapporteur say that the government will work quickly, but would it not have been very good if the text of adoption could commit a little more within a time frame? When does the rapporteur think something new should be introduced?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504202611	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504202612	I am confident that the parties, the Left, the Conservatives and the Liberals, have the same interest as the Social Democrats, namely that a viable different governance model will come as soon as possible. I do not have the opportunity to say whether it can be done in two months, whether it can be done in six or eight months, but I have the confidence that the government is going to do that work and that it will then proceed as quickly as possible. Then I have to say that precisely because it is 84 per cent. Of the doctors, as Pernille Schnoor says, the Social Democrats have also suggested that we look at another governance model, but before we can abolish the old governance model, we have to have another one we can put in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504202702	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504202703	I understand. But my question was more about whether it could not be a good signal to send that it was more clear within what timeframe it is. Often you set a time frame and say that within it and that date, for example. Within a year, or whatever it might be, a new governance model must be presented. Does the rapporteur not agree that it is good to have a time frame?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504202729	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504202730	I am, in fact, of the opinion that I am sure that the government will get to grips with this as soon as possible and will also come up with an alternative model as soon as that work is completed. I have every confidence in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504202743	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Erik Christensen. There are no more questions or comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. René Christensen from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504202754	Thank you for that, President. First of all, I would like to thank the SF for having raised this debate here in Parliament. Although the question of what the government can say in relation to the agreement that has not been concluded can be said that it is probably a little difficult to answer, the fundamental debate, in particular on the need for efficiency at the 2% level, is very relevant, and this is a discussion which the Danish People's Party would very much like to take in this Chamber too. I would like to start by saying that I will not take this opportunity to talk the Danish health service down. We have seen a health service that does a great deal of good in many areas, but in such a large organisation that has so much to do, there are, of course, also areas where you can do better, and that will remain the case. You will be able to do better in relation to the economy, but you will also do better in relation to patients, which is why, of course, we must continue to focus on what quality the health services provide to the citizens who are frequenting the system and at what price. I would also like to say that when you look at the discussion that this is going to be about and it is the productivity requirement of 2% that has been in place for many years you have to be aware that just in 2017 we are talking about 1.3 billion. kr., which is to be found further. So I also agree with the Socialist rapporteur who read out this adoption, also on behalf of the government, that yes, of course there must be something else, because the health services should not simply stop. That is why I am a little sorry that the government is not backing it and that it is not saying that it is not this model anymore, because we are clearly of the opinion that we should take a break with the way we are doing it today, i.e. with an efficiency of 2%. We want a new system and we are making that decision today. I was hoping we could have used such a question debate to say that this has been the case, but now something new needs to be done in relation to what kind of health care we need. That's not exactly what you're putting up with. You are going to look at it now, but without handshaking to move away from the demand for the 2%, and that is what the Danish People's Party would have liked to have done here today. We would like us to continue to measure what quality it is that the patient is experiencing, what professional input it is coming from health care, how we reflect on it here in the Folketing, what mandate the government in office must negotiate with at all times when negotiating with the regions. It has to be said that this debate has not filled so much, at least not in this context, in other words where we have the Minister of Finance, in relation to what the regions are supposed to deliver. Then it is true, as the Minister of Finance also said, that it is not the case that it has been a zero-sum game, where the regions have just been fed their own tail, and then 2% have been tampered with. out, and then you've returned 2%. The Danish People's Party has itself been involved in financial law negotiations, where new money has also been added. It is, of course, true that some of the money that comes back is also from these efficiency improvements that have taken place in health care, but new money has also been added to health care, and it has to be said that there are many resources available, but there are also many customers in the store. In relation to what the Danish People's Party and the Socialist People's Party have agreed on, on behalf of DF and SF, I would like to make the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the government will launch negotiations with Danske Regions on the region's financial framework for 2018. The Folketing supports the system of agreements and the economic agreements which the current government enters into with the regions at all times. Against this background, the Danish Parliament calls for the government to seek an agreement with Danske Regioner on the region's economy for 2018, which supports the continued development of health care, which is characterised by a balanced focus on activity, quality and patient safety, so that health and value are provided for patients for the resources that are given priority to health care. Similarly, the government is encouraged to stop the annual demand for 2%. productivity increases which, at the same time, will ensure a good working environment for employees and which lie within the framework of a responsible economic policy. • V 95). When we are a little more square than the government and social democracy are, it is because we want to move on to another system. We do not want to discuss whether or not the reason why we also refer to the working environment is that when we have to do these rationalisations all the time, it also pushes the employees. And there is no doubt that the employees run fast out there, and yes, everyone runs fast out there, but you don't have to run fast just to run fast, you have to run fast because it has value to run fast. Then there was also a very good experience from the Socialist rapporteur of what this productivity requirement really means. There was the story about this, about whether an operation can really count if you don't get it when you get something else. We also measure how many consultations you have, and therefore there are a great many patients who, although they do not fail very much, suddenly experience having been around three different hospitals in the same region, and why should they so much around when what they were supposed to be is not very complicated. So we also have a model that, as such, has not put the patient at the centre, but has put the system at the centre, i.e., the 2%. is placed in the center. We want to get away from this, and that is why the adoption by the Socialist People's Party and the Danish People's Party is somewhat more sharp in its wording than that of the government and the Social Democratic Party. We are a little sad about this, but of course we are pleased that, for the first time, a government recognises that there is a challenge in the way we measure health care. And we would like to nod to acknowledge that, after all, people have moved, but certainly not moved as much as we would have liked to have seen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504203405	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first is from Mrs Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504203410	Thank you. At the beginning of March, Danish People's Party chairman Kristian Thulesen Dahl went on TV 2 and said that now the Danish People's Party wanted the productivity requirement of 2%. the hospitals were to be abolished. He also said that it was a demand from the Danish People's Party for the financial law negotiations. I want to hear the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party whether it is still the case and whether what the article on TV 2 says is a demand from the Danish People's Party, if the Danish People's Party is to be able to vote in favour of a financial law for 2018, that the productivity requirement should be removed in the economic agreement that we are discussing here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504203447	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504203448	If that is not a requirement, we would probably not have made this proposal for adoption, because there it is very square. It has to go, and something else needs to be done instead. Well, it's had its time. Nor is there any doubt that, when you started with it, it had a good value, because you started thinking about how to get more out of the funds you have. But when you have had something for 10-15 years, it runs out at some point, there is no more energy in the way of managing an area. So, yes, we are absolutely firm both on what the proposal for adoption says and, of course, on what Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl has spoken.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504203517	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504203519	This means that it is a demand from the Danish People's Party to be able to back a financial agreement that we will get rid of this productivity requirement from next year, i.e. in 2018. At any rate, it should be a very tone-down government that would not listen to it and take it with it when it is about to enter into economic agreements, otherwise it will be very difficult to make a financial agreement, as I understand the rapporteur. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504203544	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504203545	We want it quite clearly, and that is also why, after all, I welcome the proposal for adoption made by the governing parties but which we cannot support. I really think that it is pointing in that direction and that the government also acknowledges what we are saying, namely that it is no longer going with this 2-percent saving or change calling it what you want as they have in the health care system. We're going another way. The fact that the government is not now saying that these negotiations with the regions will also suggest that we should move to another system is of course a little sad, but I think the government has listened to what the Danish People's Party has said and as other parties have also said.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504203620	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504203622	Thank you. I am also very happy to hear DF be so firm and say that this is simply a requirement. That is something to be careful about in politics in general, so I actually think it is refreshing. I also heard in René Christensen's reply that yes, it is a requirement in relation to the Finance Act. The economic agreements are a little special because they have to be negotiated between the municipalities and the regions and the finance minister, and then we go in and approve them afterwards. However, when the rapporteur does not want to interfere in the negotiations themselves, but makes it a requirement in the financial law negotiations in the autumn, I would just like to ask again, to be absolutely sure: is that a requirement, and no financial law with DF will be made if the 2-percent requirement is in its current form in 2018?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504203723	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504203724	It is very important to say that you need to know when you have your mandate. We have no mandate when the government in office makes an agreement with the regions at all times. We're not a part of that. There we are very firm that the government in office must have a mandate at all times, and the KL, who sits on the other side, also has a mandate. They have 98 municipalities. And, of course, a government must also have a mandate so that the agreement they are making can also be passed through. Otherwise, it is not an equal relationship. Then it is absolutely right that we say that when we come to the Finance Act, we have a mandate. There we say to the government: Now we have to pay attention because the other times we've also been sitting and adding money to the health service that we've said that we don't want this measurement method with the 2%. a year more. It has had an effect for a period of time, yes, it is true, but now we have to move on to another system. It is not, of course, the case that we are saying that we should not do better in health care, that it should now just be the status quo and that we should now just have the level that we have today, tomorrow. That's not what we're saying. We're just saying to the government, and we're saying very clearly: come on, when you go to the regions, and tell them that this system has to be phased out and we have to have another way of controlling the economy in the regions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504203830	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504203832	Thank you. I'm really glad. After all, the costs are rising, while both employees and patients are experiencing deterioration, and this has, among other things, been the case. Something to do with medicine prices. Now I may have been a little harsh on the Social Democrat rapporteur, but I was also trying to find a way to reach agreement on what the challenge really is in health care, and it is indeed new technologies and pharmaceutical prices. So if we are going to give the Minister of Finance good ideas about what to do, I would just like to ask him. René Christensen: Isn't this an area where we have to take hold of the whole industry because it's out of control?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504203916	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504203917	No, I simply do not agree with that. I do not agree that it is out of control. I believe that there are challenges in the Danish healthcare system, but it is certainly not out of control. I'd like to send that signal to all those employees out there that they're doing really well. In relation to the price of medicines, I would say that it is not out of control either. It was not long ago that we actually received a report in which we had been looking at the prices of medicines. It is not only the cost of medicines that can be blamed for being challenged in health care. I'd like to say that. But I think one of the things you're challenged by is if a patient suddenly has to go around for three or four consultations for a little thing. Then it'll be very, very expensive to get that patient through. But if that's the way you measure, you get what you order. That's what's at the heart of this: we have to get away from looking at the fact that it's just about quantity; we have to look at quality.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504204011	The third brief remark must be made on the sidelines. The next one is sir. Finn Sørensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504204019	Thank you. When I hear the proposal for adoption presented by the Danish People's Party together with the SF, I am in doubt whether Dansk Folkeparti actually believes that this 2-percent requirement should be removed at this year's economic negotiations. The reason I doubt it is that the same proposal for adoption states that the Danish People's Party and then the SF will vote in favour of any economic agreement. If there is an economic agreement, it will be voted for when it is to be implemented up in the Committee on Finance in an act. That is probably the same as saying that the abolition of the two-percent rule is not something that we stand by because if we did, we would not promise the government to vote in favour of an economic agreement where the two-percent requirement is still missing. So it doesn't seem as if it's very stubborn, I have to say.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504204109	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504204110	Now it is the case that we do not want to override the system of agreements. I know that, among other things. The Enhedslisten is now about to override the contract system of agreements. There are motions for resolutions to change the agreements. We're just not in the Danish People's Party at all. We recognise that when two parties, equal partners, have reached an agreement with which they have had their mandate, we will, of course, vote in favour of it. We have also voted in favour of agreements that we did not think were extremely good. I explained it before. When we sit in financial law negotiations, we have the mandate. There we are, after all, when we are allowed to sit there and be parliamentary foundations with which we have the mandate, and there we are fighting our battles. But we recognise that the KL has a strength when they come to the negotiations, and the government in office at all times, even if it is red, must of course also have that strength when they are facing the KL.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504204155	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504204157	There are no examples of Enhedslisten tabling motions for resolutions which interfere with the agreements. But let's just stay on track here. In the proposal for adoption put forward by DF, it is clear that any economic agreement with which the government comes home will be respected, including one where the 2-percent requirement has not been abolished. That's right, isn't it? Good. If that is true, how will the Danish People's Party proceed to remove the 2-percent requirement in the financial law negotiations, when at the same time it has voted in favour of an economic agreement where the 2-percent requirement continues? How will the Danish People's Party do this? I would like to support the Danish People's Party in doing so. I'm just pointing out that it doesn't add up.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504204243	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504204245	But that's right. There is, of course, a paradox in that, in other words, the agreement that was concluded is for 2018, and so a Finance Act will also be. That is why we can say that, if we are to compensate for this, it is about 1.3 billion. kr., like these 2%. gives, and that's what you have to go in to compensate for a year, and then you have to see what it looks like in 2019. That is absolutely right, technically speaking, but from there to say that we should go over the whole system of agreements because of this, we are not doing so, but we mean what we are saying, and that is also why the text of the agreement is as sharp as it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504204319	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504204322	Allow me to follow up on my colleague's question about the pharmaceutical industry and the prices of medicines. Does the rapporteur not agree that it is precisely the uncontrollable prices of medicines that were the reason why we in the Folketing had to set up a priority council? We are challenged by expensive patents, although we have often provided grants of up to two perhaps even three times for basic research at least and often for further research and sometimes also for marketing. We are also challenged by the fact that some pharmaceutical companies get extended and sometimes doubled their patents by making small changes in the medicine, which then allows them to present it as a new product, and then we can pay the high price for it again. Does the rapporteur not agree that, among other things, this should be done? is the cause of the pressure in the health care system and, of course, it also helps to support the issue of the 2%. in productivity improvement is difficult to achieve when it is precisely the pressure of rising prices from outside?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504204431	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504204433	I recognise, of course, that rising pharmaceutical prices are part of that. You can't say that's the explanation. That is part of the explanation for the challenges that exist, including the economic part. Then, of course, it will be a lot on the edge of what we are discussing here today, but that is to say, one should be pleased that there are companies investing in 10, 15 and 20 years in research to find medicine so that the rest of us can live longer. And then there's no doubt that once you've spent 15-20 years investing in something, you'd want this business case to go up too. So we have a challenge and we have to solve it, but we must welcome the fact that we are getting new medicines, which often and often will make everyone else have a better life when we can be helped with the challenges that we have in terms of our health.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504204518	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504204520	I am delighted, together with the rapporteur, and would just like to remind you that one of the reasons why we actually succeed is that we invest in research, that we ourselves do very much basic research and that we provide subsidies for further research. So we can also pat ourselves on the shoulder. I also think that the rapporteur agrees with us on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504204540	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504204542	I fully agree with that. Of course, it cannot stand alone. You just have to remember that it's not the state that does it alone. It's the state that does it together with some collaborators who, of course, also put their hands on the hot plate in relation to doing these research projects.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504204555	Thank you, sir. René Christensen. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jacob Jensen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504204609	Thank you. I stand here on the night of liberation as the financial rapporteur for the Left and therefore also a member of the Folketing, and at the same time also a prime candidate to take over one of the regions' presidencies, if all goes well. So don't tell me that the Left can't see things from multiple angles, even at exactly the same time. The regions are doing a very large and important job. After all, they solve one of the most important social tasks in a welfare society such as the Danish one, namely the health tasks and also other tasks. There is, of course, a recurring discussion about how many resources have been allocated for several years, but as important as how the resources are spent, what results are coming from it and what framework we are setting from the Folketing, in terms of being able to use the resources and therefore also the professional skills that are among the staff, as much as possible. Of course, there is an ongoing development, and that is also one of the reasons why we have seen this very, very good productivity increase. I think it's a piece over 2.4%. on average over the last 10 years. That is quite impressive, and that is why, of course, I should also like to pay tribute to the regions and, above all, to the staff who are working on these things in everyday life and who are, of course, an essential part of the fact that this can be done. But there is also, of course, the part that has to do with the framework, the possibilities and the new technologies, and with the fact that we have also invested in health care from here. There is an investment in hospitals, that is to say in the building stock, and thus there will also be the possibility that the workflows can be organized even better in the future than has been possible so far. Part of the explanation has also been, I believe, that a reward has just been promised when you have delivered on the progress of activity, what has also been needed. I believe that there is broad recognition of this in relation to planning down on the very, very long waiting lists we have seen in the past. Fortunately, it's gotten far, far better. So in this way there are some factors such as the framework in combination with, not least, the employee's efforts, which have been the reason why we have now achieved these fine results. But of course you also have to listen to what is being said about these things, both from the staff, from the Danish Regions and from other actors, and therefore I think it is very reasonable that the government, supported by the Social Democratic Party, and this we are proposing to rethink or at least look at the model of the governance of the health system. For it must of course be the case that we can reward and encourage the creation of a value and not just an activity for the sake of activity. We can also see that in recent years there has been an increase in administrative staff compared with staff, it can be said, in the more health-oriented areas. That in itself is also a sign that perhaps there is something to be done about some of the rules and the bureaucracy that we, among other things, have. In this context, too, we have been able to adopt. We can also see that there are still very, very large differences between regions, among others. with regard to administrative costs and in other areas. And, of course, in the region too, without the involvement of the Danish Parliament, it may be possible to organise its work processes differently from what is being done today. It's not like you can do it the same in every department. In any case, I believe that one half of the population will sign up to the fact that, for example, you cannot just give birth to 2%. year after year, speaking of the introduction of the SF rapporteur. On the other hand, it may be possible to go even further in other areas, because there is new technology, for example in the field of cancer, and we have sent out several cancer packages from here too. One can look at the example in the intestinal cancer treatment, where one had previously to have a more conventional operation with a relatively large procedure, and where there was a waiting period of about 12 days. Now you can make a simpler binocular intervention, after which the waiting time has halved, and it has also become cheaper. So that way, there are differences between department and department where you can pick up these winnings and where you find it hard to do it. This is also one of the things that the regions can, of course, be involved in, within the framework that exists, to organise, at least until the time when we saw here in the House and I hope that will be the case within a very short period of time, precisely with the work that also the Minister for Finance and the Social Democrat rapporteur have said, it is up to us to look at a different allocation model. But the end result is that we have to ensure that it is the way in which we get the best possible health for the money and we get a good working environment for the employees. The two things are connected, because a good working environment also helps to deliver better results; that you are happy to get to work; that there is less sick absence; and that we provide better service to citizens, in this case patients, and precisely ensures the value creation that we demand when we send funds. I think that is the essence of this debate, which is why I am very pleased with the proposal for adoption that has been put forward, and I should like to welcome the Conservatives and say that they are also pleased with the proposal for adoption and will therefore support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504205121	Thank you. There are a few brief comments and the first is from Mrs Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504205126	At Danske Regioner's general meeting here just over a month ago, all Regional Council members unanimously agreed that the regions should work to abolish the productivity requirement of 2%. in the forthcoming economic agreement. So that includes all the members of the Left Regional Council who were at least present at the General Assembly, including the two members of the Left, who are presidents of the Regional Council. So my question to the rapporteur of the Left is this: are the Regional Council politicians from the Left completely wrong when they support the need for productivity to be removed from the economic agreement that the government is about to negotiate in a very short time?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504205209	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504205211	This is where I could answer something really, really nasty, but I will answer what I mean: No, of course they are not on the wrong track when they work on the basis of what they are experiencing and as others have said, so that there are opportunities to be able to organise a management model in a different and perhaps more appropriate way than what we see today. However, I would like to say that the members of the Regional Council of the Left must also be praised for having a position that we must, of course, work constantly to ensure that we have as much health as possible for the money that is now being sent, which is a lot of money, and also more than there has been in the past. It is for this reason that I am pleased to see that some of the members of the Danish Parliament agree. appreciated and influenced by the things that happened at the annual meeting of the regions, but at the same time the day-to-day cooperation that we have in the text of the draft adoption by the government is just being put in place for us to look at how we can do this more appropriately. However, I would just like to emphasise that it is not the case that health care is just above the ramp. Well, you almost get the impression of that. There will certainly be some departments that you can argue about, even with a certain right, but that is also why I say that from department to department there is a very, very large difference in how to organize things, also in terms of what the potential is for doing things differently and getting more out of the means that are available. That is why I think we should be careful to generalise and say that nothing more can be done than has been done today. You can do that in some places, and elsewhere it can be harder.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504205338	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504205340	But it is the productivity requirement that is generalising. The requirement for productivity has been calculated, so this applies to the whole hospital area, which means that it has not been taken into account that there is a difference, as the rapporteur from the Left says, between what the possibilities are for making productivity improvements. It is also calculated that productivity improvements should be made in the food sector, in the medical sector and in the emergency sector, which is, moreover, a very, very large part of the health service in relation to what is then left, and that means that the reality for the members of the Regional Council of the Left and the other members of the Regional Council of the United Kingdom will be that you have to sit and cut down on health care because it is not linked in any other way. That is why they are calling at the Danske Regioner's General Assembly for the abolition of the productivity requirement here and now in the forthcoming economic negotiations, and for it not to be placed in some pickle jar or a cohesion reform committee somewhere strange, whatever happens.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504205437	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504205439	I do not recognise the premise put forward here by Enhedslisten, that is to say that the productivity requirement has resulted in cuts. On the contrary, it has meant that funds have been released on a large scale, I think, Mr President. René Christensen turned it into 1.3 billion. kr. I think that is right when he says this:'means funds which could then be re-invested in health care'. So these are funds which would not have been released if they had not been able to deliver 2%. or more in progress each year, and there are various reasons for doing so. It is both because staff have done better and have run stronger, and because there have also been other opportunities with new technology, new investment and a better framework from here. So I do not buy the premise that these are cuts. It is a question of releasing funds which have been reinvested in the health care system.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504205526	Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504205528	In his speech, the rapporteur mentioned the word 'impressive' in relation to the fact that productivity growth was about 2.4%. I understand that it is impressive if it is at the expense of poor well-being and a health care professional who is actually really sorry that they cannot carry out the tasks according to their professional skills and are not satisfied with their efforts and that there are also patients who simply do not have the care and care they need. Is that impressive? Do you want me to understand it that way?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504205605	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504205607	No, well, the result in itself is beautiful. When you look at it in history, it also looks at it from sector to sector, municipalities, state, regions, it is good that you have been able to get there. But I fully agree with what the questioner is saying here, that we must also constantly look at the cost of achieving those results. And that is one of the reasons why this evening we are supposed to have a proposal for adoption voted through on Tuesday, which is precisely why we should try to rethink the way this is happening, including with a focus on a better working environment. That is the reason, and I would like to sign for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504205642	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504205644	Then I would like to acknowledge that the rapporteur and the Left and the government recognise the need for a new governance system and that this work is being set in motion. I think that is very, very welcome. Because, with regard to the use of the phrase'more health for money', which is something you say over and over again, I would like to say that, as the rapporteur also says, it is a question of whether we, as politicians, know more about it, in other words how we get more health for money, or whether we should show some more confidence in the people working in the health sector. I could ask that as a question to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504205730	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504205733	I think it is very important to show confidence in the people working in the public sector in general and also to have confidence in health professionals. I myself have a wife who is employed as a nurse, so that goes on to say: we must show great confidence. Having said that, however, I would like to say that we must also look at these issues in a context, and I think that, in the context of the framework that we have helped to put in here both in terms of resource allocation and in terms of the control mechanisms that have been in place at the time when there were long waiting lists and where we have now invested in new hospitals around the country, etc. etc. But, of course, we all have to do that, and we do that too, recognise that there are some employees out in, what can be said, the front, who deliver on this and who do the work that needs to be done. We can set up the framework, and we have done so, but there must be some to deliver at the other end, and so is there.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504205827	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504205830	Thank you. Finally, look at it as a support for the rapporteur's wife, that is to say what I have to say now. I very much acknowledge the enormous work that the regions have done in relation to rationals. Moving specialities and the introduction of new technology, etc. is not free, and it is really, really hard work. But when you run out of good solutions, you only have to run faster, and some do more than others. In fact, I agree with the rapporteur. For example, there is the maternity ward at the Rigshospitalet, which ended up having to settle for 49 per cent. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances and preparations. These are some strong signals that are being sent right now by the staff, that there is a need for some here and now solutions. Can the Left not at all consider that some temporary solutions will be supported in this regard? And then we can see if we can find the model afterwards. But a solution is needed here and now.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504205941	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504205943	I think it is perhaps a little simplistic to say that we have run out of new ideas, that is, that human capacity should have simply reached its peak right now. I think that is simply not the case. I believe that there are also opportunities for the future, and historically there has always been a new development and new things, because we cannot foresee what will happen in the near future in relation to opportunities in IT and everything else with medicines and treatments, etc. etc. In addition, it is also a number of differences, it might be said, between the regions. Well, they have become smaller, and that is one of the objectives, one might say. But there is still a difference between how to do things and what results come out of it. But of course that is also why we are making this text for adoption, because it is precisely a recognition that there may be a need to look at whether there are better and more value-creating ways of allocating funds than has been the case. But I would also like to say that, as Mr. René Christensen also mentioned, has also had its effect, that funds have been given in relation to what activity has been delivered, because one just needed to have a higher activity and shaved down the overly long waiting lists we saw a few years ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504210049	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504210051	I fully agree with the rapporteur that there will also be opportunities in the future for new technology that can relieve us of that, at least I hope, but now that these new solutions just do not correspond to the rate set at the 2%. in relation to productivity improvements, this will still mean that the staff will run stronger and stronger, and that is the signals from the staff, that is the signals from the regions. Does it not impress the rapporteur and could it not get the Left to consider making a solution here and now, possibly a temporary solution, but a solution here and now, and then we will have to find out if a new model can be found later?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504210130	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504210132	You can come and say that we want to change something, but then I think that at some level you owe an answer to what you think can be replaced. That is also what the Socialist rapporteur said. One cannot just say that we are now pretending to be nothing, and then we hope that everything will go if there is to be some sort of governance with a budget of over 100 billion, after all. kr. I think the Danish Regions agree with that. Of course, I hear what they're saying. I do so in different contexts, but I am also doing so in view of the need for us to have a look at this again, and that is exactly what the government, together with the Socialists in the proposal for adoption that is being put forward here, is proposing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504210218	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504210222	Thank you. Now I do not think that the 2-percent requirement is a steering instrument. After all, it is a whip that hangs over the neck of the staff, which means that you have to deliver 2%. more every year. But it is clear that the government will not interpret it differently. I understand that you will not abolish that 2-percent efficiency requirement until you have another steering instrument. Then I just ask: should the new steering instrument contribute the same efficiency increase annually as the productivity requirement of the 2%?? Should it contribute to greater efficiency every year, or can we settle for less?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504210310	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504210313	I believe that we owe it to both staff and patients who need a strong healthcare system to ensure that there is the best possible framework and that we make the most of the opportunities available in terms of resources, and therefore also of the professional hands and heads present in our healthcare system. We owe it to you to do that. And if we could get more out of it by doing it in a different way, well then we should be a bunch of dung if we said: No, we wouldn't, we'd rather do it a little worse than we could otherwise do. Of course not. However, I think it might be anticipating the course of events when we are urging this to be worked through, among other things. with the involvement of the Danish Regions, who, after all, also know what this is all about. That is why I do not recognise what Mr. Finn Sørensen travels around with the fact that this is a question of us pulling money out of the system. This is a question of ensuring that we get as much money as possible and that we also get as much money as possible, so that, among other things, we get the money back. can ensure the best possible room for manoeuvre for the professional skills to provide the service that I know they go to work every day in order to deliver.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504210411	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504210413	Everyone says they want to do the best they can, but Danske Regioner's general meeting, all staff organisations agree that the 2-percent requirement that has now been worked on for 10 years, and before that there was also a tough productivity increase requirement, is deeply damaging. This is deeply damaging to staff, to patients, to planning, and it is also detrimental to good efficiency. So that's the vision you have. And Danske Regioner has a very clear answer, namely that the 2-percent requirement must go away. Then I think it is very natural and useful for the debate if, as a government party, you say that you want to look at a new steering instrument. But what are the requirements and principles to be met so that the rapporteur and the government are satisfied? Should it deliver higher productivity? Should it be the same, that is, something equal to 2%.? Or is it possible to accept, under the impression that the productivity requirement that you have been subject to for many years is deeply harmful, a slightly less productivity-increasing requirement? It is quite natural that we should respond to this before we enter into the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504210526	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504210530	But as I see it, it is not the requirement of productivity in itself, but the way in which one works is rewarded for making an extra consultation, although it does not necessarily create the extra value for the patient. That's what's being attacked. I would just like to mention once again the example in the treatment of intestinal cancer, which I mentioned earlier. In the past, a patient has been operated, with an average cost of DKK 100,000. And you did a major surgery that took 12 days. Now you do a minor surgery with binoculars. It costs DKK 70,000, which is a significant reduction • 30%. in round numbers and it takes half the time in wait. Is it because you've been running faster? No, of course it is because new technology has also been introduced in this area. So there are possibilities, also forward-looking, in certain areas not necessarily in the field of food, one cannot feed more quickly, as I said, for natural reasons, but in other places things are happening that make it possible to deliver in the future too. And I think the regions are also involved in that, I know they are. But, of course, we need to talk to the regions about how a relevant and new value-based, to some extent, governance model can look. I don't want to stand here on Parliament's platform and just deliver the answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504210645	Thank you, sir. Jacob Jensen. We move on to Mrs Stine Brix from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504210658	Thank you for that, President. The main discussion today on the economic agreement between Danske Regions and the government is, of course, predictable enough to deal in particular with the productivity requirement. After all, the requirement of productivity has worked in its present form for about ten years. What is required today is for staff to deliver 2%. more every year, the hospitals have to deliver 2%. more activity every year, without money coming with it. Before it was demanded that it should be 1.5%, and before it again there were other demands to increase productivity. Summa summarum has been required in the hospital area to increase productivity for about 20 years. If we look at the requirement we have had over the last 10 years, that is, since 2007, this means that the same staff as they had in 2007 must raise 22 per cent. more tasks than they were supposed to be in 2007. It's a lame one. That is also the reason why all staff organisations from the Chief Medical Association to the FOA, HK and the nurses' organisations are now united in trying to call us out as politicians and say that they are being worn out by the management system that exists today. If we look only at 2014, the Danish Labour Inspectorate issued 37 orders in the hospital area, and this was especially with reasons for time pressure and too much work. So it was in direct continuation of an increased screwed-up pace. The rapporteur on the left, who was on the floor just now, actually said that money was being paid, but that is not how it works. What we are talking about is providing free work. Today, the amount of additional benefits is about 1.4 billion. kr. that you don't get paid for. So it is not 1.4 billion. kr. that you get and that you can invest. So that is by no means the case. In addition to the fact that productivity demands forcefully pressure the health and safety of health workers, as several rapporteurs have already mentioned, this is also a cost-effective requirement. It punishes departments, and it penalises hospitals that use resources wisely. That is, for example, the case. The same day's investigation in Silkeborg and Holbæk, where you make sure that people can just go to the hospital one day and get all the controls done here, but the hospitals get a worse economy than those who call the patients many times in a row. Or it may be hospitals that are good at cooperating with the municipalities and thus reducing the number of contacts, but they are in fact also being penalised financially in the current system. That is why it is irresponsible in this debate to continue that system. What is irresponsible is to continue with more of the same things that we have had for 10-20 years in different variations. We owe it to the patients in particular, but also to the employees, that we ensure a proper framework for health care, because although it is the regions that run the hospitals in the day-to-day lives, it is ultimately the Folketing that decides which financial framework one has to do well with. Therefore, it is absolutely crucial for Enhedslisten that the 2018 economic agreement will be a battle with the productivity requirement. What can you put in place? We are discussing here in the Folketing. But it's actually not that complicated. What can be put in place is the governance that we already have in a largely supremacy it sounds almost to the rapporteurs as if there is no governance of the regions and hospitals, but it is actually wrong, because it is a block grant that is 99%. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). You could do that at 100%. Then we have a lot of legislation and patient rights; we have eight national objectives; we have an agreement with the regions on health; we can monitor waiting lists; and we can of course also demand that budgets be respected. Then the economy doesn't run out of control. So we have plenty of opportunities to control the economy of the regions, even if we abolish a productivity requirement which is currently harmful both to the working environment and to efficiency. I think it has been very interesting and encouraging to see that the debate on the demand for productivity has developed as strongly as it has over the last six months. When we had the same question debate a year ago, there was virtually no one who thought that abolishing the productivity requirement could even be considered. Now we have an agreed general meeting for Danske Regionser, and all five Regional Council Presidents have had a clear announcement to the government that it is necessary to abolish the productivity requirement. Danish Patients and all the professional organisations I have already mentioned also say quite unequivocally to the Danish Parliament that it is time to abolish the requirement. In fact, when you hear the public debate, I think that many people have been given the impression that there is also a majority in this Parliament in favour of abolishing the productivity requirement. The Danish People's Party has been out to say that this is what you want to do, and that is what you say today. Social democracy has also formulated itself in a way that I believe many people have understood as if they wanted to. I have at least heard several nurses say that they actually thought that it had already been abolished, because they could listen to the debate, that there is a majority. But we can see in today's debate that things are not so easy, and that is why we have to get on with it, and that is why I would like to call on all the people who people health care every day to maintain that pressure, because it will be necessary if we are to get rid of the productivity requirement.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504211244	Thank you very much to Mrs Stine Brix. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Joachim B. Olsen of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504211257	Thank you for that, President. And also thanks to SF for raising this query debate. And I am glad to have the opportunity to stand here on the floor, even though the question has actually been raised to the Minister for Finance. I have heard a few people today say that we have one of the world's best health care systems, and I do not know if that is what you just say. It may actually be true. But in the preparation for today's enquiry debate I tried to investigate it a little, and in all the studies I could find, I thought it was hard to argue that we actually have one of the world's best health care systems. I am not going to make myself an expert on how to measure it in concrete terms. But I can see that there are many who are trying to measure it at least. In all the analyses I could find, we are not actually very well placed. The best I could find was one that measured on European health services, and there we entered a ninth place. And all our neighboring countries were in front of us. And when you've measured the best health services in the world, we're in a place like this between no. 30 and No 36. When I say that, it is certainly not a criticism of the employees of the Danish health service. My own mother was a nurse for over 30 years. My father was a nurse for over 40 years. I myself have also had the pleasure of being treated sometimes in the Danish healthcare system, and I must say that I have always had a very, very fine treatment and have had good experiences. I have also had bad experiences with some of my own family members, where it became a very messy course of treatment, and where the service could also sometimes have been better. But I do not really know whether the premise that we have the best health care in the world is valid if you look into it. This discussion is all about it, at least it's come to this famous 2-percent requirement. We believe that it is a sensible requirement to have and that it has helped to ensure that resources have been used more and more efficiently over time and that it has certainly benefited patients. The public debate gets the impression that it only means that employees have to run faster and faster, that they have to perform more and more for the same money every year. However, I cannot quite agree with this: when you look at the actual costs of health care, you will find that they have increased every year. This means that more and more money is being spent, and this is an expression of not only adding more money, but also of the fact that when you become more and more efficient, first and foremost as a result of new technology that can make you able to produce more, more health services, and also less money, what you save will be returned to health care. And we think it's pretty reasonable that there's this pressure. So for us, it is important that we maintain this pressure, that of course we make some demands to increase efficiency. Nor do I recognise the premise that, because you are becoming more and more productive, it automatically leads to a worse working environment. A few years ago I had the pleasure of sitting on the Health Committee for a period of time, and there we visited a hospital in Skåne, which had a Danish hospital director, where productivity had increased quite, quite significantly, far more than 2%. a year. We also talked to the staff of the hospital concerned, and what they said was that improved workflows, which had led to higher productivity, had increased job satisfaction because more time was now spent on what was actually there to treat patients. Less time was spent waiting, fewer frustrations, improved job satisfaction. So to this premise that it automatically leads to poorer working conditions, that there is a productivity requirement, I would say: I am not sure it is that simple. That is not to say that there can be nothing about the requirement of productivity that is inappropriate in relation to the way it is measured, and I hope that the government will also have a dialogue with the regions about this in future negotiations. I can certainly see that there is still room for better use of health resources. If you look at the administrative costs, especially in the Capital Region, you will see that they have increased very, very strongly. And the most important thing must be to ensure that the many, many billions, over 100 billion. kr., which is used every year in health care, is used appropriately, is used better. It must be more important to ensure first, that is, before we add more resources. For there are also other important challenges to be solved in Danish society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504211944	There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504211948	Thank you. In fact, I agree with the rapporteur that we can, of course, make it more efficient without compromising quality. You can, but that is not what we are talking about here. Well, here we are talking about that productivity requirements have gone beyond just working smarter. And what we are dealing with now is a situation in which all employee groups, professional groups, nurses, doctors, FOA, HK etc. etc. Well, I think we have to listen to that too. So, yeah, you can do things smarter. But when we find ourselves in a situation where the health service gets more money and people run stronger, you might ask why that is so. After all, it is because the cost increases even more, that is to say, to medicines, to new technology, to the expectation that this and that ray cannon will also be given, and if the medicine is found, you just have to pay the price that the pharmaceutical companies are charging for it. This is, of course, the situation we are facing: the demands are getting bigger, while at the same time more money comes with, but not money to ensure that employees have the time to do so, in order also to give patients security.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504212116	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504212118	I am just not sure that it is quite as simple as Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen puts it to be. The history of the head doctor at the Kingdom Hospital, in the maternity ward, drew major headlines and also led to him taking part in the debate on the DR 2 debate in which I myself took part. I have no doubt that the doctor in question has been unhappy with some things, but when you went on a little later, you could only see that more resources had been added, even if there were fewer births in the hallway. So it is not necessarily a question of resource shortages. It may also be other things that are involved and that can lead to justified dissatisfaction, but we always end up in a resource discussion where it is just about adding more money. And I have to say that I'm not convinced is correct.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504212229	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504212231	No, I know that, but I also hope that the rapporteur will say that it cannot always be the opposite: that you can make things more efficient, that is to say take 2%. Every year forever. Well, it's been calculated that in 20 years, these would be 2%. Every year means 49 per cent. several treatments should be done with the same number of hands. I do not think that the rapporteur heard my colleague review the situation in the maternity clinic and why the money had been removed. I am sure Mrs Kirsten Normann will tell her herself about this again. But does the rapporteur not think that there is any problem with the economic situation at all? In other words, should the employees just run even stronger, or is it simply not true what they say when they say they are too busy?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504212327	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504212329	I would never dream of saying that what people say in the public debate is not right; I would not say that. There are certainly problems in some places. I'm just saying that I'm not quite sure it's always a resource issue. In other words, the productivity improvements provided by the health sector are also very much due to the fact that there has been a new technology, that this 2-percent requirement is also being returned to the health sector. And that is why I do not entirely agree with that because that is what I think many hear when Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen says, as she does, that less money is being spent. There isn't. I mean, the cost has increased. We can, for example. notes that in the Capital Region, the costs of administration have almost exploded. And then we look into a future where there are new hospitals, where there is a very great potential to further improve productivity, and that is actually very, very good. Because with the demographic challenge, there is a need for us to continue to increase productivity, efficiency, investment, new technology, and now there are also new hospitals that will enable us to get more out of resources and more people to be treated.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504212504	The President also sometimes wonders if one can say the same in shorter and shorter periods. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504212513	Thank you. Yeah, I just want it to be 2%. shorter. What I wanted to ask the rapporteur was this good story from the Swedish hospital. There you have been looking at it, and a Danish doctor came and said that this can be done with some other workflows. I fully acknowledge that. You always have to look at how to do better. This is also the good example of looking at some workflows. But once you've done it, you can only adjust it the next time, and then you have to get into something else. Does the rapporteur not agree that if something has been done over the 10 to 15 years that you have had such a measuring tool, then at some point, what should be said, it has been used up? Then you have to look other ways. It's very funny about this discussion when you listen to some people talk about just having some more money to do. The rapporteur says: we just need to do something more. Not many people then say: why are we really talking about health? It's because there are some people who are sick, and then they should be healthy. And then we measure how often they frequent health care. We could also measure how fast they got back out at the other end and were healthy. Does the rapporteur not agree that it is actually just as bad to say that we continue with the system we have had for 10-15 years, because it is not that easy?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504212618	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504212622	I think that Mr. René Christensen has some valid points. I was also trying to say in my rapporteur's speech that I think there is a real discussion about how productivity is sometimes measured. It may look funny that you, for example. measures productivity if you just have some more consultations without the patient getting better. I think it's the patient, who is the customer at the store. So I think that debate, sir. René Christensen refers to there, as it is clearly a relevant debate. I just do not think that is an argument in itself to say that we should not now have a productivity requirement. Because I actually hear it as if you still have to look away to see if you can't make things smarter and design the system smarter. I hear that when I hear about people who know a lot about it than I do, you actually can. And then I think we should continue down that path.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504212735	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504212738	What is interesting is that the rapporteur also represents the government in this matter. And it is interesting that when you heard the rapporteur's speech and the arguments, it was like they said that what we have is working very well. But what I hear in the last answer here is that the Liberal Alliance recognizes that it may well have worked well and that it has also produced some effects, and there is the good story up from Sweden, but at some point you also have to look another way and say: is it now that this has lived out its time? Are we going to something else now? In fact, I also hear about this in relation to the proposal for adoption made by the government and the Social Democratic Party here that the rapporteur supports it. Yeah, I guess it's true that the time when you ran clean on these 2% is about over. We need to look at another way of achieving quality in health care.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504212825	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504212828	I don't represent the government. I represent my party, and then my party sits in the government. After all, we have a division of power in Denmark. I don't think sir. René Christensen and I are so far apart even, because I think that Mr. René Christensen and I can agree on some of those absurd examples that can lead to higher productivity. But that's the way you set it up. But that does not mean to me that we should not continue to have a productivity requirement. I think that's good for you. But you can see if it's arranged in the right way. At least I think we should be very open to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504212926	Mrs. Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504212930	Well, that's exactly the way it is, sir. Joachim B. Olsen speaks against it being. After all, productivity is measured by how much activity is being done for the money. And that specifically means that the departments have to earn a certain number of DRG points, and it has to be a larger number of DRG points than the previous year. It encourages the development of courses, for example. have many contacts, and this penalises those departments which organize courses with fewer contacts. Because it is not only in Skåne that you think about how to fit in better. This is also done in Silkeborg, for example, where you have made an entire hospital that is built around courses where you only come one day, or for that matter in Holbæk. These hospitals are financially penalised by the systems we have today. The heart center of the Kingdom Hospital is another example. There are plenty of examples of people thinking about how things can be arranged in a good way, and then they are penalised financially and are actually encouraged to do something else. And that is an important part of the reason why the demand is being criticised. So I do not actually understand the rapporteur's talk about holding on to the system we have today for an indefinite period, knowing that it has the negative consequences.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504213042	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504213045	In fact, I have not heard anyone who does not recognise that one must, of course, always be open to look at how to set productivity requirements as well. It is just important to me, and it is above all for patients that resources are being used properly and also that we are becoming more and more efficient in using resources properly. And this is done through many channels and to a large extent through new technology, including better hospitalisation. That is why billions and billions have been invested in new hospitals, which have facilities and a framework to increase productivity without necessarily having to run faster, as such this is the usual term, but simply because the framework is better. And it's wise to do it that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504213146	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504213150	Yes, of course, you can increase productivity in individual areas. The problem is that it is intended to do so in all areas, including those where there are no examples of this being possible. The Food Department has been mentioned as one example; we could also highlight the palliative department as another example where people lie in the last time of their lives. After all, it is not possible for them to turn up the process they are doing. The medical department is a third example, and the acute area is a fourth example. These are some of the biggest areas we have in health care. These are areas where the increase in productivity is due to the fact that staff are running more rapidly or that patients are being sent home more quickly, what has been done on a very large scale. So we have reached that point, says all the staff who are on the ground and the regions that they have done all they can to increase productivity in those places where it is the intensity of the labour force that can increase productivity.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504213248	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504213253	Well, I recognise that there are examples that the way it is measured is not appropriate. And there I say I'm kind of open... I always think you should be over there to see if it can be done in other ways. I have never said that it must be arranged exactly that way for time and eternity, but I am of the clear conviction that when you look at it overall, it has been good that there has been some pressure to deliver more for the money you get. And when that money is saved and is even returned to health care, I think it would also be appropriate to recognise that we are talking about a scaremongering which is simply not right. For the actual figures do not lie; more and more billions have been added over the years to the Danish health service.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504213357	It is a little late in the evening, but I can see that virtually everyone goes beyond the normal time standard, so I would like to appeal to all of us to help keep to the speaking time otherwise it could be a long evening. The next question is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504213415	Thank you. I listened to the rapporteur say that he himself took part in the consultation on the maternity services, if I understood correctly, but then the rapporteur himself heard how the chief doctor explained that in the maternity department there was less than 50 per cent. of the DRG tariff, the rest of the money was to be spent elsewhere where you needed more money. So we're just getting something different than we actually think. I am listening to the rapporteur using the term "acknowledgment" not very many times, and I have to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur does not think that it is true when the staff say that they cannot reach the task.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504213457	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504213458	I simply did not hear what was said at the end.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504213504	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504213506	I asked whether the rapporteur does not think that it is true when staff repeatedly say that they cannot solve the tasks. Perhaps at the same time I could ask whether, when the rapporteur says that the rapporteur believes that things can be done smarter, I can get one good example of what it might be.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504213533	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504213535	When there are staff who say that you are running faster and faster, that you are more and more busy, that it is unsatisfactory to go to work in some parts of the healthcare sector because it is not everywhere in the healthcare sector • then I think it is right. I do not think that they are lying, and I have never said that there are no challenges, because I think that there are, especially when you have a planned economic system, as the public health sector is. After all, it is thought-provoking in itself that it is us politicians who say that it is 2% of the total budget. Every year, but that is what happens when you have public systems, it becomes centralisation. There is not natural competition, there are not always the right incentives for working together, not even in the sector, because there are other interests at stake, professional groups, etc. etc. where conflicts of interest arise because there are no natural incentives to increase productivity, and that is why we have this discussion at all, in other words because it is we who control it centrally. That's a problem. As a Liberal, of course, I will acknowledge that, but that is the system we now have, and it is our duty to ensure that the resources we provide are of course used effectively. But of course there are departments in the health sector where, for many, many different reasons, there can be a bad working environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504213730	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504213734	Now it is not because I have a late evening hour to advertise for my own region, Region Sjælland, but it is just to give an example and meant as a service information, in other words that within the region a value-based allocation has in fact already been introduced to a certain extent within the hospitals and departments that are now there. So if there is a challenge, for example in relation to the Rigshospitalet, Mr. Joachim B. Olsen did not agree with me that there is also some responsibility in relation to regional governance? There you also have an opportunity to deal with some of these things within the framework that is being given. In other words, the point is that there is also some room for manoeuvre to be able to organise things within the regional area, i.e. regional self-determination, one can say, there is, after all, where the region of Zealand saw, despite the fact that there is a budget of 18-19 billion. kr., has hit the budget almost spot on.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504213823	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504213826	Yes, and of course I think that is a very good point to make in the debate. Because, of course, it is being done in different places, and there must be room for it to be done and for different ideas to be tested and, hopefully, within the regions we can learn from those who are doing it well. There I think it is remarkable to see how the costs of administration have exploded, especially in the Capital Region. It is certainly not something that benefits patients and it could indicate that there are some management problems, perhaps at the political level as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504213916	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504213922	There's a light in the microphone. I have a little doubt as to what the rapporteur thinks, because at the outset it seemed as if the rapporteur and the Liberal Alliance did not recognise that this productivity requirement should be abolished, that is to say that the rapporteur seems to be one of the only people here today who has not said: well, we have to get rid of the 2-percent productivity requirement. Just now it was said that it is very good that efficiency has been made more effective, but at the same time the rapporteur says that the rapporteur recognizes all these professional groups who do not go out and tell false stories. Gallup has done a study that shows that 84 per cent. Of the doctors surveyed, they say they want to get rid of this. Does the rapporteur recognise that they have more understanding than I and the rapporteur have?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504214023	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504214027	I have made it very clear that I do not want the 2-percent requirement gone, and I have at least understood from the debate that there is a majority in the Folketing that does not want the 2-percent requirement gone. So there is a majority in the Folketing that does not want the 2-percent requirement away. I did not hear the Social Democrats say that they want to remove the 2-percent requirement.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504214049	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504214053	I haven't heard it that way. I have heard it in this way that there is a difference between when you are going to say 'yes' to removing it completely when there is nothing else. But let us not discuss it. We're talking about a planned economy and all sorts of very big things that, like, drive out of a tangle, so that means that the Liberal Alliance is completely committed to having this 2-percent requirement removed now? I do not understand why the rapporteur is shaking his head.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504214122	The President does not interfere with the content of questions and answers unless they violate the Rules of Procedure, which means that the dialogue must be conducted by the Members themselves. That is the rapporteur now.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504214145	We do not want the 2-percent requirement removed. I have made that very, very clear. The fact that I say that I do not want the 2-percent requirement removed does not mean that we cannot nuance the debate and say that there can of course be challenges with a centrally established 2-percent requirement. Then I say that it is no surprise to me, as a liberal, that when you have a huge health sector which is largely managed on a plan-oriented basis, where we stand in the Folketing and where we have decided that there should be a 2-percent requirement, it can also cause some problems, but that is not an argument that we as responsible politicians should not make sure that there are some mechanisms that make the many, many billions we put into the health sector use as efficiently as possible. Because if we do not, it is the patients who ultimately pay the price, but that is for whom the health service is at first there. It must be noted that customers in the shop have paid for the benefits from the tax ticket.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504214259	Thank you so much. Thank you, sir. Joachim B. Olsen for today's work. There are no more brief comments. The next is Mrs Pernille Schnoor from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504214319	Thank you. And first of all, thank you to the SF for raising this debate. Let me start with an example: there are two patients. One patient is a well-educated man who can quickly explain his situation. The other is a drug addict and has several diagnoses at the same time. Both are hospitalized with heart flicker, and there is a doctor present who has 1⁄2 hour available. Who's the doctor gonna treat? The doctor can make it professionally sound and work an hour over what is the goal of the productivity requirement? It's better treatments. But that is clearly not the effect it has. Five out of six doctors want to get rid of the productivity requirement, you could read the latest issue of Today's Medicine. It's from a study that TNS Gallup has done. 91% At the same time, they consider that the productivity requirement affects treatment and 66 per cent. consider that they do not have enough time for the individual patient. It seems that all of us in here would like all patients to be treated equally. This means that one patient does not receive better treatment than the other. However, as it is now, we are leaving the problem of giving priority to health professionals. It is important for us to have transparency about how our health services prioritise, and there is a priority right now. But we do not quite know how it takes place and sometimes it does not seem quite rational, for example. where there is a certain type of treatment to be excluded because there is no DRG tariff in the catalogue. Mantra more health for money, based solely on economic rationals, challenges the treatment of the individual patient. After many years of productivity requirements and DRG tariffs as a steering tool, time has long since come to think new. It is clear that our healthcare system suffers from the rigid management objective, which has had negative consequences both for the professionality and well-being of the staff and for the patient's experienced quality in the hospital system. We see that patients are being sent home because the hospital is being overcrowded. We see that the sick and the weak do not get the best possible advice because there is no time for it. We see employees who go down with stress because they can't understand the workload or because their working day doesn't make sense to them. We see how hospital patients do not change clothes or bed covers, or that nurses at night feel compelled to put patients to sleep with medication. We also see employees who spend time on e.g. performance records which do not contribute to quality or otherwise contribute to their finding meaning during their working day and during their working life. These are serious conditions that we have in many places in our health services, and this is a development that we need to address, because neither we nor the citizens nor the employees can be served by it. If we are to solve the problems and give employees better working conditions, we must both improve the financial framework and turn down the control tyranny and increase confidence. This is among other things. Therefore, in the alternative, we are critical of the current productivity requirement, as it is an unhealthy and outdated principle of governance. A new model is needed, based not only on the economy and the purchase and sale of services, but also on patients' needs, quality and patient safety. An alternative to the current governance and settlement model is needed, and I am pleased to see that most parties here today are in favour of looking at an alternative model at least. Now I have to be careful what I say in relation to the former rapporteur who was just up here. In any case, I would like to conclude by being positive about the debate here today and positive about the fact that we need to look at new governance models that focus on quality. And then we could also try to see if there could be other parameters in it. Then, on behalf of the Alternative and Enhedslisten, I would like to make the following: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the government is about to launch negotiations with Danske Regions on the region's financial framework for 2018. Against this background, the Danish Parliament calls for the government to seek an agreement with Danske Regioner on the region's economy for 2018, which supports the continued development of health care, which is characterised by a balanced focus on activity, quality and patient safety, so that health and value are provided for patients for the resources that are given priority to health care. Similarly, the government is encouraged to stop the annual demand for 2% increases in productivity, which will ensure a better working environment for employees. V 96.)
ParlaMint-DK_20170504214852	Thank you. That was exactly at the time, including the reading of the proposal for adoption. There are no brief comments, so we thank Mrs Pernille Schnoor, and we move on to Mr Schnoor's report. Andreas Steenberg of the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504214905	The first time I encountered the challenges with the demand for an additional activity of 2%. Every year, was back in 2010, I think, where I was a member of the Regional Council of Central Jutland and visited what is called a chest surgery department at Aarhus University Hospital. Thorax is the Latin word for the chest, and what they do in that ward is that they get patients into acute, and then they can open the chest and primarily operate in the heart if anything has happened there. What they spend most of their money on in a department like this is security. Doctors are available 24 hours a day, year-round, every day and also on public holidays if there is a patient who urgently needs to have an operation in the chest. Like many of my colleagues in the Regional Council, I was very impressed by and duped by what they could do, it was really blue blink and to save lives and fight respect for such a department and of course also for many other departments, but as the chief doctor said: When you say that I have to treat 2%. I have to count on two per cent each year. more who fall around; how should I have any opportunity to influence it? I can't cut back on security. I can do an analysis for you who say that it's only two nights a year that someone is coming, and then you can cut it away, but you won't, because you would like that, if there's a Christmas night that falls, there's a doctor at work who can do this life-giving operation. What you do in a university hospital like this is that you say that this department doesn't have to streamline the 2%, but then there's just another department that has to streamline 4 per cent. And that is how you can go on, and that is how it ends up being quite a high level of efficiency in certain departments and thus in certain patients. We also believe, as many others have said, in the Radical Left, that this regime of creating more operations and more activity has at some point made good sense, that is, when it was adopted many years ago. But now we have come to the conclusion that we have to do another way of steering. I think it is interesting, for example, that people do not control whether they are healthy or not. It is not, of course, because there is someone in the health service who does not want to make patients healthy, but it is a little strange that they say that if only the activity has been carried out, they get the money. You don't look at people getting better. You don't see if the patient's been satisfied either. You don't look at the quality or, of course, you do, but that's not what you control the economy, because there just has to be some activity. This also means that you do not focus on whether the patient will return, i.e. whether the patient will be reinstated. After all, there are a lot of patients who have a disease that never goes away, and it is of course interesting from a socio-economic point of view if you can get the treatment done in such a way that the patient does not need to come back, but can take care of himself with the disease that he now has. Therefore, for the sake of the economy, the working environment and patients, there is a need for a different way of managing. We will end up voting in favour of the proposal for adoption proposed by the governing parties and the Social Democrats, but we chose not to be a co-sponsor because we wanted to go a little further and towards some of the other proposals for adoption which say that it should already be gone this year. That is not what you want until you have negotiated with the regions. After all, however, we have come so far that we say that we will eventually have a new management system. We are very pleased that both the government and the Social Democratic Party have moved in this direction, and that is why we are voting in favour of this proposal for adoption, but we also hope that this will happen this year, and we wish the Danish Regions every success in the negotiations. We cross our fingers so that we can get it through this year.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504215309	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504215315	It was just to say that the SF and the Danish People's Party have also proposed it, and the Radicals should be more than welcome to vote in favour of it, because it is very clear that you have to get rid of the 2-percent requirement.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504215326	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504215328	That's a good suggestion. Now, during the afternoon, we have dealt with what will be the majority in favour and, as I understand the procedure, that is what will be voted on and then we will vote in favour of it. But I think it is very good that you in the Danish People's Party stand by it, and we hope that this will also come out of the negotiations that are taking place.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504215346	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you, sir. Andreas Steenberg. The last one on the list tonight is the Minister of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504215400	Thank you for the debate. Now I see that I have forgotten the note from the many remarks that have been made. Can I go downstairs and get it? Thank you. First of all, it annoys me that Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen did not want to review how the development has actually been in the hospital's maternity ward, since that is what was used as the whole prelude to it. Of course, it was told about how a doctor has experienced it, but nothing was said about how it has actually happened. I would really like to know whether the December 2016 article of the Danish newspaper Politiken covers what is the development in the National Hospital's maternity ward, namely that there are significantly fewer births, that there are the same costs for staff, and that there is therefore a higher cost per year. birth, i.e. pr. the individual giving birth, and that then chief midwife at Rigshospitalet, Rikke Nue Møller, said 2014 was the worst year. Since then, things have progressed a little bit. She then believes that it is far up to what she thinks is acceptable, but says that it has progressed. I really think it might be interesting just to know what you want when you say that it is this in the Rigshospitalet that is, like, the reason why you have to abolish the efficiency requirement of 2%. without knowing what to put in place. The efficiency requirement of 2%. is not a requirement for maternity wards to be 2%. more efficient. The requirement for efficiency is that the total health service should be 2%. more effectively, the delivery of 2%. more for the funds provided and that it is entirely up to the management of the regions, in the alternative, the management of hospitals to assess how they are 2%. must be distributed. You can choose to add more money to the maternity ward. You can choose to add the same amount to the maternity ward. There is no requirement in the agreement between the government and Danske Regions that maternity departments should deliver more, that you have to give birth faster, or something else. Has it been possible for Danske Regioner and for the hospitals to deliver 2% efficiency in the years when there has been that requirement? Yes, and well and good, because just as the Social Democratic Party said, an efficiency and productivity gain of 2.4 per cent has been achieved. Every year. This means that it is not just possible to achieve it, but that it is even possible to surpass what has been required. Does this mean that the development will stop now? No, as sir. Jacob Jensen said that there is a rapid development in the whole of health, where research is still being carried out on new technologies and new forms of treatment. And last year we had the best and sharpest agreement on health medicine ever made, where over a 3-year period you get a 10% drop. in the list prices and thus stop the cuckoo effect that has taken place in the past with regard to the cost of medicines. What has happened in the field of health? Now there is talk of it as if the level of health is going down, as if money has been withdrawn from health care. If you take the financial figures for health care, you can see that in the period 2007-2016 more than 12 billion have been added. kr. more when the amount is cleared of inflation. So 12 billion has been added. kr. more into the health service and it is based on accounting figures than the amount that was the starting point in 2007. So there has been no starvation where there is less money. Does this mean that there are fewer employees? No, because if you look at the development of staff groups, where the figures I have received only go back to 2012, you can see that both doctors and nurses have seen progress in terms of the number employed. I actually thought that this was a completely different discussion we were going to have today, so the figures here are based on the number of people employed and only go back in 2010. But you can see that there has been progress when you measure how many people have been employed. Is it the case that health care is worn out and that, even if you do more treatments, it has no effect? So it was said from the SF that this 2-percent objective goes beyond the treatments that patients suffer from it. Each year, Danske Regioner publishes such a booklet, which this year is called "Regionernes result 2016 - Danske Regioner·. Unfortunately, I was not in Aarhus for the Danish Regions meeting in 2017, so I only have the figures for 2016. It may well be that in the last year there has been a completely different development, and then I regret that. But I haven't seen that. What happened next? It has happened that if we take Danske Regioner's own figures on how the development has been, they show that the activities have increased, the mortality has decreased, the absence of sick people has decreased and the waiting time is shortened. If you go in and look at patient satisfaction, you can see that it is high in relation to hospitalization in Danish hospitals. If you look at the waiting times in psychiatry, you can see that since 2010, when an additional effort was made, they have been falling and they continue to be falling. In 2016, the waiting time for planned operations was declared to be record low, so if you go out and look at the quality of it, if you measure the quality of survival of patients, you can see that the survival rate for cancer is increasing and has been increasing since 2001 onwards and also increasing since 2007. If you look at the mortality rate, you can see that it has decreased in all regions, and the differences in mortality rates between regions have also decreased. There are shorter and better courses in cancer treatment. It is the case that if you look at the heart treatment, you can see that there is better heart treatment and it saves lives. I haven't been doing statistics in the hours since we started this discussion. I didn't ask the government, the Ministry of Finance, to do some kind of beauty painting either. I have just taken the hospital owners' own inventory after 9 years with a 2-percent efficiency requirement and tried to look at what the health system, the hospital owners say, has meant for quality It has been that things are going better. It is better for patients, better for mortality, better for the economy. Does that mean everything is perfect? No, it doesn't. This is also why the government, together with the Social Democratic Party, has put forward a proposal for adoption which calls for a review of the governance in the field of health to clarify what works and does not work in the current governance and, in this context, to propose better governance in the future. Have we made a huge concession today? Are there breaking news, yellow beams and new front pages in tomorrow's newspapers? I hope not, because if so, you will have slept per hour since my predecessor last summer made an economic agreement with Danske Regions, where you set it in motion here: a series of attempts to find out exactly what we can do to improve quality, what we can do to improve the way we do financial management. I have repeatedly asked in hospitals, in regional councils, in the Ministry of Finance, in the Ministry of Health: what is the result? What can I take out of the studies, the experiments that have been started? The answers so far have been: nothing yet, because they have not yet been completed, because they have not been completed nor have they been completed, nor have they been carried out by the Danish Regions or specific hospitals themselves. They do not come and tell me that they have been completed so that they can be concluded on the basis of them. Therefore, I say that I do not think it is right to jump from a steering tool that we have, as we know, and which has helped deliver quite excellent results according to Danske Regions themselves. It is not right to just say that you have to scrap it without knowing what to replace. I fully recognise that there are problematic elements in the current governance model. What we have heard in the past is that the management model can produce a certain type of treatment, unlike something that is actually correct in patient terms, or that more contacts can be maintained with the individual patient than there is evidence of health care, are examples of something that can be better done. We fully acknowledge that. That is why, together with the Social Democracy, the Left, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party, we have also written that it must be examined how to achieve better governance, what works and what does not work. Because I fear some people are throwing the baby out with the bath water. Because you can see that there are individual problems, you are putting everything aside. I would just like to conclude by saying that, in a rather crooked way, I would have said that I take note of the difference between the proposals for adoption that have been made. They're pretty much the same. Well, I can't be remembered and I've only been in here for 19 years that there's been such a similar proposal for adoption in a question like these. However, I noted that the proposal from the Alternative and Enhedslisten neither respects the contractual system nor takes an interest in keeping within the framework of a responsible economic policy. I'm not surprised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504220441	Mrs Stine Brix for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504220443	It is like reading Erasmus Montanus to hear the Minister for Finance. The Minister for Finance stands and lists a series of good results that the regions have achieved and concludes so quite independently that it is because of the productivity requirement. Where is it in the regional booklet? There is no necessarily link between the two. If we say quite clearly from the regions, both at their general meeting and at the side of all five Regional Council Presidents, that the requirement of productivity is an obstacle to the provision of a good health system, then that does not make sense in the speech that the Minister of Finance has just made. There is not necessarily a link between the two, that is, that you can provide a good health service and that you then continue with the productivity requirement. So I do not actually understand why, in view of the results that the regions have delivered very well, it is also recognised that it is the regions that know what it is that is needed in order for us to have a good health service in the future. That is why we should listen to the fact that the productivity requirement actually stands in the way of that now.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504220547	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504220548	It is the case that activities are increasing and waiting lists are decreasing during this period, and the two things are linked to increased productivity. It is also the case that the development that has taken place in Danske Regions has not come on its own. It has come because the incentives to make greater efforts have come from changes that have taken place in the way they are calculated. An activity-based settlement has helped to change the way health care is run today. I do not think that even the most legged member of a regional council, if there were to be one, would think that is different from the fact that the ways in which one has managed activities and the economy have helped to promote the delivery of more in the individual health care system. I recognise that the current model may be problematic on certain lines. I just do not understand that Enhedslisten will not recognise at all that there has been an increase in activity because there has been a productivity requirement.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504220646	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504220647	But productivity can easily be delivered without there being a productivity requirement from the state. Why do we not say to the regions: we know that you can provide a good health service, we trust that you will organise how to achieve the maximum possible health for money within the framework of the block grant that we then provide? I simply do not understand that. This can easily be done in the regions, which can go in and make concrete assessments of where productivity gains can be reaped. I have a question I would like to ask the Minister for Finance. The Danish People's Party has said that they have it as a requirement for financial law negotiations that this requirement be removed in the economic negotiations. Is it technically possible to agree on this in the Finance Act negotiations if the government has concluded an agreement with Danske Regions to continue the productivity requirement? Can you do that?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504220739	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504220740	The question here is a question about the forthcoming negotiations with Danske Regions, and I take the tasks one thing at a time. We are just negotiating with Danske Regions about the future and the next year's governance of the economy and efforts and health care, and I am sure we will find a good agreement on that. Once that has been done, we move on to solving the other problems that are in the ordinary annual wheel of the Ministry of Finance. I just don't think that Enhedslisten should get away so easily with saying that you can't find any effect of the activity requirement that has been. We can see quite clearly that there has been increasing activity, increasing productivity and decreasing waiting times in the time that has been required for activity, which means that there is a necessary pressure in relation to the conversion and inclusion of new ways of dealing with, and this means that more tasks can be done for the same money. And that is exactly what the regions have been very good at doing when they took over the task after the counties.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504220836	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504220840	Thank you. I think there are slightly different interpretations of what the text of this proposal for adoption means. For the Minister spends virtually all his speaking time listing all sorts of things that are going very well and that there is no real reason to change anything, one has to understand, and in the end the text of the proposal for adoption is referred to, and perhaps there are some buttons that can be screwed up. However, the Social Democrat rapporteur said that we need to change things and that we need a new system of governance, and that is why the government's proposals for adoption have been accepted, and so are we from the Radicals. So what's it like? Is the 2-percent requirement working or not? Because if it works as well as the Minister of Finance says it shouldn't be changed, and if it doesn't work, it has to be changed. That's one. The finance minister also read out a lot of numbers. There is then another study which TrygFonden and Monday Morning have jointly carried out, and which is the most profound, the widest and most extensive study ever made by the health service, where they have asked over 6,000 Danes. The results of the study have given rise to a number of experts saying that this is an alarming mistrust of health care, because a majority of the population do not trust that they will receive the right treatment, and the then Minister for Health, Mrs Sophie Løhde, said that this development was very worrying, so that there was no greater confidence in health care. So how does it work?
ParlaMint-DK_20170504221006	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504221007	As far as the latter is concerned, I do not know the study. I note that patients who have been in contact with health care have been very satisfied with the contact that has been made. I do not know TrygFonden's study, but I know of a nationwide measurement of the studies that have been carried out on patients who say they are very satisfied, i.e. they are very much or very much satisfied. So when Danske Regionser uses it as the basis for their profit and loss account, I assume that the rest of us can also calmly do so. Then there is such a little reverb in that I should try to dissect what I have actually said when I have said the same thing all the way through. The 2-percent requirement has had some positive effects on how much one delivers. The 2-percent requirement has also given rise to some challenges, and the government has recognised this a year ago and launched some experiments to lead to a new governance model. Until there is a new governance model, it is important to know that we have something to ensure that there remains high productivity in the public sector. That is why we are saying: we cannot say which model of governance we have to move on to before we have developed one that is sustainable and that is actually useful for steering.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504221123	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504221124	However, I believe that the parties who voted in favour of the government's proposal for adoption and I have also heard that DF will do so, even though DF has a fine proposal • have an expectation that what is in the paper also fits, and the view is that what it says is that things have to be changed. So the Minister for Finance must also say today that what needs to be changed is that you drop the 2-percent requirement and then you find something else instead. So, you're gonna drop the 2-percent requirement? Because otherwise I think there are some parties that feel cheated.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504221158	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504221158-2	Again: Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen is approx. 11 months behind. After all, it was 11 months ago that the government found that we wanted to change the management system. It is 11 months since we entered into an agreement with Danske Regions to initiate some experiments that could give us a knowledge that allows us to create a new management system. So work has already been started, and that is why it is such a strange discussion that we have to stand here and ask whether we are going to change the system when we have already said 11 months ago that yes, we are going to do so. The text of this motion for a resolution is, of course, one hundred per cent in favour of every word. I even think that the phrase that has been the most debated this evening has come as a proposal on my part. So there is nothing in this motion for a resolution tabled by the Social Democrats, the Left, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party that the government is not 100% behind.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504221253	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504221255	If the Minister of Finance keeps saying that we have had more and more tasks done for the same money, then that is quite right. But now you have collected specialities, now has So when the Minister of Finance now emphasizes that 11 months ago there was a plan that something should happen now that is good enough for a long time I could perhaps ask if the Minister of Finance has any idea when to come up with a plan and whether that plan will involve efficiency requirements or savings requirements.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504221350	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504221351	Setting something as complicated as a control system to assess value for patients is something that takes time. It's not something I'm working on. This is something that is set in motion in Danske Regioner, something that happens in hospitals in individual regions and in Danish regions together and in a discussion between the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Health and the Danish Regions. When do you finish? It is more important to me that we are done when the quality is in place than to set a specific date. I think this is too important to gamble with. A system is created to ensure that patients receive the best possible treatment in relation to what gives value to the individual, and it is just, I have to say, complicated to make that assessment, because it is both a question of how many treatments, but also how effective treatments are being made along the way. That's why this is something that's gonna take some time. Today, I have neither an offer of the end date nor the final content of such a new governance model.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504221500	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504221501	I have sometimes tried to exemplify in the course of this debate how at least the maternity department explained that what was seen on paper was something different from what was actually experienced in practice. In the hospitals, they know things take time when you have to do something complicated. It also takes a very long time to teach surgeons how to use new technology when doing gallstone operations in a different way, and it takes a very long time to change workflows in relation to it. I just have to ask, in conclusion, whether the Minister of Finance is not impressed by the fact that doctors, when the regions and indeed a great many patients say that the lemon is now pressed enough, that it is simply not possible to run stronger, because we are now out there, where we risk that it will have consequences for both quality and for patients.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504221603	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504221605	But I don't recognize that anyone has to run stronger. I want them to go shorter ways. If you take that example, as Mr. Jacob Jensen came along, namely surgery for intestinal cancer, which is currently performed as binocular surgery and not as conventional surgery, it will be seen that the hospitalization time has gone from 12 to 6 days and that the price has gone from DKK 100,000. for 70,000 kroner. It's not like running any stronger. That's making things smarter. I do not share Mrs Kirsten Normann's view that human development has now reached a zenit, a peak from which we cannot create more inventions or more efficiency, and that we do not have the opportunity to use the future super hospitals to carry out a greater degree of planning of the work that needs to be done. I don't agree with you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504221655	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504221657	Thank you for that and also thank you for the debate. What I really want to ask the Minister for Finance is that what we are going to talk about now, which is going to fill a lot, is this famous 2% efficiency. Now let's say you find a new way to measure it. Then it may well be that there are some parameters that go down significantly, i.e. how many customers there come, how many consultations you get made just to stay in it. It is a matter of dealing with, even for those of us who may not have so much knowledge of health care. These things are falling sharply. Is it because fewer citizens are served? No, it may be because you've become more efficient. Could the Finance Minister and the government live by looking at some parameters and saying that there is still a good satisfaction, that it still looks good, but where efficiency is in fact only 11⁄2%.? We can still see that the processing times and the satisfaction of the citizens are still good, but the efficiency is only one and a half per cent. That is also what we are discussing today: should it be the aim to achieve the 2%.? It used to be. That is also why we see some things you do to reach the 2%. Then some unintended things have come to, some strange ways of working to reach the 2%. I am now aware that the Minister will say that we address this also in our proposal for adoption. I'm aware of that. But could the Minister live with the fact that the regions could still deliver the fine report, but that efficiency was lower than the 2%??
ParlaMint-DK_20170504221818	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504221819	We also address this in our proposal for adoption. We do. It's not something I just say to meet expectations. Firstly, in our proposal for adoption, we state that this is one of the things we need to look at. Secondly, if I may say so, it is somewhere at the heart of this debate: how do we create a system in which we measure not only how many consultations but also whether these are the right consultations? This is what we do and work with, both in the Ministry of Finance and in the Ministry of Health and also in a very close collaboration with Danske Regions in everyday life. How do we do this measurement? I just do not agree that our demands in themselves should have led to some unreasonableness, because if so, Danske Regions could have delivered less productivity than they have done. Our demands have been 2%. They delivered 2.4%. So in goose eyes there is a cover on how much they have produced extra. So if having to produce something extra has led to some inappropriateness, then there is air in the system that could have failed to do so. I think there are some things that we must work together towards, namely to have a better system, as we have proposed in the proposal for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504221937	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504221938	I would like to sign that the Minister does not quite deny that it may be another objective that will come in the long term and that the Minister will of course not now reveal what that objective might possibly be, and I think that is quite fair. But the argument is rather the same as when you look at the municipalities' economy, where you look at all 98 municipalities and say that now they can't get over this ceiling, and then everyone is afraid to reach it. That is what is happening in relation to the regions. Of course, you have to stay below that ceiling. We also recognise that the economy of both the regions and the municipalities needs to be controlled, and that is why we need to have governance in one way or another. Finally, however, I would like to acknowledge what the Minister concluded by saying about the demand for the 2% that the government says, not only is working to remove, but is also working to bring something else forward instead. What would then have been interesting was if today we could have made a proposal for adoption that it should go away and that something else should come, because if you do not have real intentions, it could at any time sit in the Finance Minister at every meeting with the regions and say: what do you want instead? Well, you don't have a model, so we'll just keep going. I certainly hope that the government does not choose that solution, and I do not expect it either. But that is what can happen if we do not take a decision in principle that we should now move on to another system.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504222052	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504222053	Allow me to say, as a rounding-off, that this has been a long discussion, sometimes also a rather direct discussion we have had with each other, but if you peel away the controversy, including my own controversy, because it is also occasionally there is a great deal of agreement on what we would like to see. We would like a health service that is managed for the best of patients. We would like to have a health care system that ensures that good results are achieved, and we would also like better results than those we are experiencing at the moment. We would like to have a health service which respects both the professional skills of doctors, the working conditions of employees and the ability to constantly improve and improve with technological developments. I think we should try together to find ways of working together and promote them instead of pulling the discussion apart. Maybe we can do it when there is less light and pressure than there is here. I think we can do that, even in the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504222155	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504222157	I cannot help but speak, and I know that the Minister has given his resignation, not his farewell, in this debate, it was a statement, but when I listen to the debate here and those parties which, by the way, usually speak a lot to preserve the regions, I can think nothing more than that it sounds as if any change to the better can only come from here, from this Chamber. I would like to ask the Minister whether the Minister does not agree with me that, after all, there is also responsibility in the individual regional councils, in the individual political leaders, of course also in the individual departments, for how to manage the individual hospitals. I mentioned before Region Sjælland, because I know where things have changed and put my hand on the hot plate: you take responsibility for it and, moreover, keep the budget. This is just an example of how important it is to a management that is within the individual regional councils and that it is also part of the explanation of why things are going well and why things may be going less well.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504222256	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504222256-2	I clearly believe that there is a local responsibility for what is going on. In some regions, we have seen a great difference in the ability to ensure stable operation with stable staff development, and in other regions we have seen that a more stop and go policy has been run which has hired and fired several times to the detriment of the employee groups. That is why it is clear that there is a local responsibility for this. There is also the responsibility to say: how do we choose to implement a productivity requirement? If we choose to implement a productivity requirement flat on all departments, or we choose to put it where we can see that there have been the technological leaps that allow more than 2%. efficiency in each location. And there I would like to praise Danish Regions, because I actually think that Danske Regioner has delivered the goods for the 10 years we have had them. They have provided lower waiting times, they have delivered higher health care efforts, they have delivered better efforts against mortality. And therefore there is good reason to praise Danske Regionser, but there are also some challenges left, and the challenges we are working with Danske Regions to solve within the next few years.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504222406	The questioner? No. Then I'd like to say thank you. I see no more people who have the opportunity to make a brief comment, unless you want a second round. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the three proposals for adoption will take place only on Tuesday 9 May 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20170504222434	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting except that I would like to thank everyone for their work in the service of the people's regime. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday, May 5, 2017 at 6 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
