ParlaMint-DK_20170302100015	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Lisbeth Bech Poulsen (SF) and Jacob Mark (SF): Motion for a resolution No. B 77 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on stricter requirements for employee shares and options in state-owned enterprises). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20170302100047	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302100117	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302100126	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 88 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), against 13 (El and SF), abstentions 6 (ALT). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302100212	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302100222	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 110 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302100257	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302100312	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 55 (DF, V, LA and KF), against 24 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions: 30 (S). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302100356	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302100411	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 111 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302100441	The debate is primarily concerned with the proposed amendments. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendments has ended and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302100459	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1 and 2 of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration as adopted. They are adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302100511	The debate is now about the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the bill? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302100518	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. voted 88 (S, V, EL, LA, TOTAL, RV, SF and KF), against 23 (DF), 111 in total, abstention 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302100558	No amendments have been tabled. Sir. Martin Henriksen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302100618	Thank you. I should just like to express my surprise at the fact that only the Danish People's Party can support the abolition of refugees' claims for housing. I fully agree that some improvements have been made so that the municipalities no longer have to find accommodation for refugees as soon as possible, but that they can wait a little longer. But that does not change the fact that it is still the case that there are different situations where refugees are better placed in the municipalities than Danes in relation to housing, and I cannot understand that. And we cannot understand in the Danish People's Party that there are some in here in the Danish Parliament who can with good conscience think that this is a good idea. Of course, refugees should at least have the same legal status as Danes, but they should not have a better legal status. Then I have noted that the minister has been out with a suggestion that if you come to Denmark as a family couple, and you then, while you are in Denmark and have received a residence permit, apply for asylum, then you should no longer have a right to have a residence. I would, of course, like to acknowledge that this is a step in the right direction, but it is very difficult for us in the Danish People's Party to understand that there can be such a massive majority in the Folketing for refugees to remain significantly better off than Danes in the housing market. That is why I hope that if we do not do this, then at a later stage we will reconsider our position. In principle, it is wrong for people who come from outside to be better off than Danish citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302100747	Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302100757	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. For the vote 22 (DF), against 87 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302100836	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302100851	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. For the vote 22 (DF), against 87 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302100927	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302100945	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. For the vote 22 (DF), against 87 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302101025	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302101039	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: I should like to ask the Commission whether it is prepared to accept Amendment No 2 by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration or Amendment No 2 by the President-in-Office of the Council. 1 member of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302101139	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302101205	The debate is open. And that is Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302101215	The aim of this bill, which we are discussing here today, is to create a separate legal framework for the defence intelligence service to have access to a number of information on air passengers and crew. And why is it so important that the Defence Intelligence Service can access that kind of information? Well it is because we live in a world with an increasingly complex threat picture; it is because we live in a world where there are people who want to harm our democracy; and it is because we live in a world where those who want to harm our society have easy access to cross borders and thus enter Danish soil. This proposal ensures, as I have said, a separate legal basis for the Defence Intelligence Service to have access to passenger data on foreign nationals which the airlines are required to transfer to SKAT under the Customs Code; that is already the case today. The proposal stems from the amendment to the PET Act and the Customs Act recently adopted by the Danish Parliament, which ensured that PET can receive information on air passengers through SKAT. The same will therefore apply to the Defence Intelligence Service, which, if the proposal is adopted, will receive the important information in the future. The proposal also involves amending the law so that the scope of the secret service's obligation to delete legally provided information is made clear. In fact, we have recently been through a very similar proposal with regard to the police intelligence service, and that is the same thing that will apply to the defence intelligence service. With regard to individual information contained in documents, the proposal envisages that the secret service should not, as a general rule, be obliged to delete individual information from documents to be preserved. It will ease the workload when the intelligence service staff are not obliged to enter documents on an ongoing basis and examine the cases and documents of the service in order to delete them. It also goes without saying that when you get more information, it complicates it further. On the other hand, the intelligence service must delete documents or cases when the service becomes aware of the fact that they no longer comply with the law's processing criteria in connection with its activities. It is the position of the Social Democratic Party that this bill strengthens Defence Intelligence's ability to prevent and counteract threats to Denmark and Danish interests at the same time as we keep the balance in legal terms. Perhaps I should also mention that this proposal provides for the possibility that, as a citizen, through the supervision of the intelligence services, you can seek insight into what information is stored about you. However, I have to say that we in the Social Democratic Party support the proposal here, we believe that it is a useful and important tool for our intelligence service.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302101547	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then it is Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302101554	Thank you. In the Danish People's Party, we would very much like to support the work of the Defence Intelligence Service to prevent threats to Denmark, and if the Defence Intelligence Service needs these additional opportunities, which are part of this bill, then they must have it, because it sounds balanced and reasonable. So the Danish People's Party supports L 146.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302101627	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peter Juel Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302101630	Thank you, President. As the Danish Foreign Intelligence Service and Military Intelligence, the Defence Intelligence Service has among other things. to provide the necessary commercial basis for Denmark's foreign, security and defence policy as well as to prevent and counteract threats to Denmark and Danish interests. For the purpose of these tasks, it is essential for the Defence Intelligence Service that the service has access to information about travel to and from Denmark by specific persons, as well as information about travel to specific destinations and about special travel patterns. The threats to Denmark and Danish interests are serious and complex and change their character. The threat picture is markedly different from just a few years ago. The draft law also proposes that the Defence Intelligence Act be amended in order to clarify the scope of the secret service's obligations to delete legally provided information. It is essential to ensure that the operational forces of the Defence Intelligence Service are used as effectively as possible to solve the core tasks, and to strike the right balance between the consideration of the operational capacity of the FE and the need to avoid unnecessary accumulation of information about individuals within the intelligence service. The Left supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302101801	Thank you. Then it's mr. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302101806	The unit list has the principle that if the intelligence services have a suspect, they should go to a judge and get a surveillance order. In the absence of a surveillance order, the freedoms of Danish citizens must remain unabated. This means that you have the right to move freely and communicate freely without monitoring, and we are therefore also opposed to this bill, which gives FE access to information about ordinary, law-abiding Danish citizens without a warrant. The most grotesque thing about this proposal is that it really legalises a practice that has taken place so far but has been illegal. Instead of correcting the violations, where citizens' freedoms have been illegally violated by both FE and, unfortunately, PET, a legislative amendment is being made which legalises this mass surveillance. Of course, Enhedslisten cannot support this. Basically, with this bill, you say to the FE that they don't have to go to court, that they don't have a reason to get the information. This can be done on the basis of what is called a general criterion of relevance, which in reality means FE's gut feeling. Many people have talked about this in various ways and said that it is important in the fight against terrorism. We must fight terrorism, but what is crucial is that we do not jeopardise our fundamental freedoms, but rather guard the citizens, the people, the fundamental freedoms of the Danes, and this proposal does not do so. If you have any suspects, you have to go to a judge. We must not violate the freedoms of ordinary, law-abiding people. We must have the right to move freely, to be able to communicate without supervision by the state. That is how democracy must work, and that is precisely the way in which we defend against terrorists and extremists. I would like to stress once again this very, very remarkable fact that we are in a situation where, for a long period of time, the FE has obtained this information illegally. It was the former Minister for Defence who informed the Defence Committee that this had been the case. In other words, when there has been talk on several occasions from the platform that there has been no legal basis for it, it means that what you have done is contrary to the law. That is what I think is a serious violation of law, and I must say that it is a little baroque that we are in a situation where, when we are aware that criminal offences have been committed, illegal mass surveillance, we do not do anything about it. No, then you just try to change the law so that this mass surveillance of ordinary, law-abiding citizens becomes legal. Enhedslisten cannot support that. We are therefore, of course, also opposed to the bill, just as we were against the draft law in which a similar change was made in the field of police intelligence, where, for a number of years too, precisely this illegal mass surveillance had taken place, as this draft law in FE's area is now trying to legalise.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302102215	Thank you, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302102223	Thank you. Of course, in the Liberal Alliance, like everyone else, we are very concerned about taking the necessary measures to help safeguard our societies and citizens against terrorism. Terrorism is the ultimate evil. It threatens our security and our security, and we must fight it by all necessary means. Today, in a new threat situation, the Defence Intelligence Service needs another means to ensure and respond optimally to the terrorist threat against Denmark. Therefore, we need to change the possibilities for FE access to passenger data for foreign nationals' flights to and from Denmark. That is a condition we must accept. I would therefore just like to say that, when it comes to the matter, I see it as an advantage that it seems that cooperation with SKAT can be established, which is already authorised under the Customs Act to receive this data on foreign air passengers and to pass on the information to the Police Intelligence Service. SKAT is therefore already in the process of establishing an electronic system, a solution to handle the receipt and transmission of information as smoothly as possible. Changed handling and storage of the collected personal data is then also part of the bill. The changes are, according to the Liberal Alliance, within acceptable limits, and that is why we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302102408	Thank you. Then it's mr. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302102414	For the alternative, it is, in principle, a single legislative proposal to deal with. We cannot support the bill simply because we believe that it removes some freedoms and some basic principles that we have defended in Denmark, in relation to the fact that intelligence services will be able to model-recognize and monitor which people fly in and out of Denmark without there being any suspicion that there has been any crime. That is the principle. The fact that this is a very, very difficult question when it comes to coming up here and saying that we are voting no is a completely different matter. Because we listen so much when Defense Intelligence says there's a need. We were also critical when PET last had a similar need. And our sympathy will be that you shouldn't stand so strongly on anything if you need anything else. So we will then listen and see if there is something that can be addressed in the legislative proposal, so that we can approach something that could be tolerable for us. But we just can't see that right now, because when you say that it will only be for a certain group of passengers that this is going to apply, I think that the wording underestimates how much action this is actually taking. That is all and the pattern recognition is interesting in itself, but when we look at data usage in general, the pattern recognition is also one of the areas that we have failed politically to address yet. In other words, the profiling of people by companies and also by states is much more violent than what we know today. To give a little perspective, I would say that there is a recognition that some of our telecommunications companies are practicing data retention, a logging of data that is actually illegal and at least not EU law is okay. Today, but you continue to do so because we do not just have an alternative. The pattern recognition options that companies like Google and Apple have, just on our devices, our phones, by being able to see exactly where we are, aren't something you've started to address yet, but it's on a much larger scale and it's about a much bigger intervention. And I would say that it is probably just before that it may be that the intelligence services can correct me that if the intelligence services had legal access to the data that some of the very large companies have and that we have allowed them to have themselves, then they might almost have better tools to deal with crime than they have today if they are to follow the rules that are there. So I'd like to follow up on Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen's comment that this is actually a legalisation of an illegal practice. And that is the positive thing, so now we are at least aware that this is how it is going on, and I think that is actually positive. We then choose, in principle, to say no to it, but recognise that there may be a need. However, we, like the Institute for Human Rights, do not believe that the need in any way corresponds to the intervention that is taking place. Finally, I would like to say that I think that this is an undervaluation of the data potential that lies when you go in and relax the legislation that data already stored should be deleted. So, the data stored can be leaked at any time, can be hacked, and if they are in the wrong hands, stories and cases can be created of one thing and the other, i.e. if you do not protect data well. And therefore it is questionable that there is no obligation to delete data after a given period of time. It shouldn't be something that should only be done if you stumbled over it. So it is a very difficult question, but we choose in principle to say no to the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302102808	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Juel Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302102809	Thank you, and thank you for a rapporteur's speech, where we came all around. I need to ask you something. For the information that we are today, hopefully, giving the Defence Intelligence Service an opportunity to collect and use to be preventive and to look after all of us is, in fact, some tools that SKAT already has today, in order to subsequently go in and see if funds are being taken out of the country and that we come after and ensure that all funds are taxed. If the rapporteur is now so opposed to the defence intelligence service and the police intelligence service having these opportunities, are these options that the rapporteur proposes that we remove the SKAT?
ParlaMint-DK_20170302102848	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302102849	I think that is a very important question. And no, it is not an option to be deprived of SKAT. I do not remember who of the hearing parties says that it is also the Department of Human Rights that a response could be to say that there should be a separate body, that is, a separate way for the FE to have this information from SKAT, and that it should not just be something you got without a warrant. So no, for other reasons, the SKAT should be allowed to do this. The problem is if a secret service can go in and do this without a warrant. This is contrary to the way in which I believe we in Denmark have practiced our intelligence work so far, or at least what we have legislated on. But now that the question is raised, I also think it is important to ask, and that is one thing that further makes it difficult to take a position on this question: do we get this information from anywhere else? After all, it is easy to stand here and be holy and say that Denmark must not do so if the reality is that our intelligence services are getting information from elsewhere because they are necessary for some reason or other. Well, the day I get cleared up on that point, we have a new situation. I do not want to say that this will change our attitude. But we shouldn't be naive and say you don't get this information anyway. So I think it's an interesting question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302102948	Sir. Peter Juel Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302102949	Well, it is clear from the proposal here that the information you obtain is obtained from SKAT, so that you do not have to bother the airlines several times. So it's just some information you pull out of the SKAT. In fact, however, I think that the rapporteur has explained here in a good way that the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party regard it as a significantly greater threat to Denmark, that financial resources are being taken out of the country, which is not taxed, than the prevention of terrorism and that it might be done in that country. I just think it is a rather strange priority to put economic crime significantly above terrorism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302103029	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302103030	It can be said that the frequency of financial crime is still and consistent, or at least it has been for many years. It's a threat that's been there all along. The threat of terrorism is a high priority, and something needs to be done about it. The problem here is, of course, that the amount of data you get in by simply taking a crack and making a floodgate that is completely open, without thinking about the data-ethical rights aspects that may be, makes it take huge resources from the police intelligence service to start using this data in a sensible way. And I understand that you get systems and that there are already systems that you can probably contact and that we can get this information from. So, no, I do not agree with the slightly polemical approach of the rapporteur. We give a very high priority to combating terrorism in the alternative. We just don't think this is necessarily the right way to do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302103119	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302103123	Thank you. I do not think I fully understand what the rapporteur is proposing as a model rather than what we are discussing here today. Because the point of this tool is that you have to be able to see if there are any potential terrorists or something on these lists. The rapporteur then says that you can have them if you first have a court order. But the point is that you don't know who's coming, and that's why you have to keep an eye on who's coming. So can the rapporteur not try to elaborate on his model? Because I just don't understand it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302103159	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302103200	In principle, I think it is a question of whether, because of the danger of crime, because there is a potential risk of crime or terrorism, we should take all of us hostage, in the understanding that we are simply allowing everything and everyone to be monitored. After all, we fully agree with the objective of avoiding terrorism, and there may then be all kinds of underlying ways of dealing with that risk. It may lie in our defence work, in our international work with our partners, in our humanitarian work and in all sorts of places other than going in and monitoring Denmark as a community and monitoring the people who come in and out of the country. I don't think it's just me who can question whether this is the right way to use this very big masked shape. There will also be some places where we simply cannot do that. There may be aircraft that cannot land in Denmark if you choose to do so in this way, because we do not have the data exchange agreement that is needed for those passengers to land here, and it may be that they have to land in other countries. So it's not such a unique alternative approach that this is problematic. It is, of course, a fundamental violation of certain freedoms which are then chosen, perhaps for good reasons, and there we disagree with the alternative to look very much at here, because it is believed that the terrorist threat to Denmark is so great that you must be able to pattern all people who travel in and out of the country. That is where we disagree with the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302103321	Thank you. There is a follow-up from Mrs Trine Bramssen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302103332	Well, it's a technology we know from many places in our society. We've got license plate scanners on our police cars, and we've got surveillance equipment at the border that's watching who's passing. So it's a technology we know from really, very many places. Is it the policy of the alternative that this is also called into question? Because then there is a great deal we need to change in the whole way we run our society when we discover people who are either trying to swindle, or people who could be suspected of criminal acts. So is it a principle for the alternative that you shouldn't have general information and then find out if some of them are suspects or is it just about this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20170302103414	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302103416	It is about the fact that we have to be much, much better in general to embrace it, that we are faced with a future in which we simply do not have control of our data at all. For the data systems that we have in Denmark to store the data we collect, you cross across the controls, by knowledge centres, without even having control of what actually happens if they are hacked. Our cpr numbers in themselves can be an unwieldy size, even if they give us very good. So there are enormous challenges, and I think everyone is aware of that. Companies and states are currently working to find safe ways to handle data. This is a violation of freedoms. It is an illegal practice that is then legalised, and yes, there we stand in the alternative guard that this is not the way it is done in Denmark. But we are very sensitive to helping the police and intelligence services in other ways.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302103502	Thank you to the rapporteur. Now there are no more brief comments. Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Zenia Stampe, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302103508	Thank you. First, I want to make an admission. I am here today on behalf of our defence rapporteur, Martin Lidegaard. I therefore have to be honest and admit that I am being answerable to the first part about SKAT and the transmission of information from SKAT to FE. We will come back and tell you what we think about it, either in a report or when we vote at some point. The reason why I have taken over from Martin Lidegaard is partly that he is away, partly that this is legislation which in many ways reflects a similar legislation for PET. I've had it as a legal rapporteur. That is why I can also say that the part relating to new deletion rules for the FE is strongly opposed. That is because registering people is a violent interference in personal freedom. However, when we allow it, and when we allow it to law-abiding citizens who are not themselves suspected of anything, it is because it can sometimes be relevant to a matter. The authorisation of registration may be justified. However, this authorisation is subject to the condition that an assessment and verification of the continued relevance is carried out on an ongoing basis. So, are the treatment criteria met? That's exactly what this proposal is about. It is about removing the obligation of the FE to continuously assess whether the treatment criteria are met. Well, is the data subject still relevant to the case? This means that if one is so unfortunate to be a law-abiding citizen who is registered in a document, one can only be sure in future to be removed from that document in three cases. One is if the absolute time limit for deletion has been breached. I was just down to confer with the officials it's 15 years after this document has been relevant. So it could be a document that has been open for 10, 20, 30 years. But it is only 15 years after it has not been open that it can be deleted. It can almost be a lifetime. The second case mentioned here in the bill is when the secret service happens to fall over a document and find out that this person is no longer relevant to the case and therefore must be removed. The last case is when a citizen himself applies for insight and can therefore be deleted from a document because, when looking for him or her, he or she finds out that he or she is registered and is no longer relevant to the case. Then you can take him back out. But that is simply not satisfactory. We have only helped to give these broad powers to register law-abiding innocent citizens on the assumption that continuous assessment and control of the relevance of that information is being carried out. That's why we can't be in on that part of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302103810	Thank you to Mrs Zenia Stampe. Then it's mr. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302103821	This bill is an adaptation of some previously adopted legislative proposals, so that what has previously been agreed that SKAT should pass on information to PET now also includes the Defence Intelligence Service. At the time, we voted against the powers granted to PET in respect of passenger data and deletion rules, which is why it is also logical that we should vote against this bill. After all, the deletion rules are problematic in the sense that there is a risk that some people will inadvertently be in the archives, in the registers, long after it has stopped being relevant. I understand that these are resource issues, but I do not think that this is an argument for not ensuring that people are deleted from these registers when they have to be deleted from them. That is why it is not satisfactory to relax here. As far as passenger data is concerned, it is always a matter of balance when it comes to discussing the fight against terrorism and what the powers of the intelligence services should be. There is a constant need to see it in the context of proportionality, i.e. what the benefits are of gaining the increased powers, compared to what the harm is elsewhere. In this context, I think that the consultation answer we have received from the Institute for Human Rights, which I think should be taken very seriously in this context, is quite central. They are undoubtedly claiming that this draft law does not have any proportionality between what is to be achieved and what is of unintended harm, i.e. that monitoring is too violent and extensive in relation to the benefits it has. But it is clear, as the alternative rapporteur also said, that this is one of the things that can be drilled during the discussion of this draft law in committee. However, I can say that, following our position on the PET proposals, we are also opposed to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302104059	Thank you. There are no comments. Sir. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302104109	We have informed the government that we are backing the bill, and we are doing so because, in our opinion, it is necessary for the FE to have a little better tools to combat terrorism. What I think has been crucial to me in relation to the information that the Defence Intelligence Service is now gaining access to is that SKAT already has access to that information. It doesn't seem consistent if we think it's okay for an authority, the SKAT, to have access to this information, but that we don't want to give it to the Defense Intelligence Service, which needs it to fight some of the most serious, namely the terrorist threat. In our opinion, the threat from terrorism is something more serious than the crimes that SKAT is trying to prevent, not because we want to defend them, but the proportionality must be that if this information is to be given to authorities, it is more important that the Defence Intelligence Service has them than that SKAT has this information. That is what, for me at least, makes me think that we should be consistent and strike the right balance. On the one hand, of course, we do not want the authorities to have too much information about the citizens, but on the other hand we accept that the authorities also need to be able to combat serious threats to society and then this proposal makes sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302104236	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. Then it's the Secretary of Defense. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302104244	Thank you for the broad endorsement of the bill. The threats to Denmark and Danish interests are serious, they are complex and they change their character continuously. The threat picture is therefore sharpened compared to a few years ago and includes among other things: terrorism, cyber threats, fragile states and a Russia that creates new insecurity in Europe. It is essential for the government to ensure that we are always able to defend Denmark and Danish interests as well as to ensure the safety and security of our citizens. That is why we must ensure that the authorities responsible for the safety of all of us have the necessary tools and resources at their disposal. In this context, Defence Intelligence is a central authority. The Defence Intelligence Service will help prevent and counteract threats to Denmark and Danish interests and provide the commercial basis for Denmark's foreign, security and defence policy. These are some very important tasks, not least in view of the current threat picture. It is essential for the activities of the Defence Intelligence Service aimed at matters abroad that the Service has access to relevant passenger information about foreign nationals' travels to and from Denmark. Access to information on travel to specific destinations and on special travel patterns will strengthen the intelligence service's ability to uncover, for example: the intentions of foreign powers or terrorist networks that may pose a threat to Denmark and to Danish interests. The smoothest and least resource-intensive solution is that the Defence Intelligence Service can receive through SKAT the relevant passenger data on foreign nationals to be transmitted by the airlines to SKAT. In addition, there is a need to clarify the secret service's obligation to delete legally provided information. The Defence Intelligence Service must delete cases and documents when the service becomes aware that they no longer comply with the so-called treatment conditions. On the other hand, the intelligence service should not use extensive resources to review all cases, documents and information on its own initiative and continuously consider deletion. These resources are much better spent on operational work and thus on solving the core tasks of the service, including: to prevent and counteract threats to Denmark and Danish interests. The proposal thus ensures the right balance between, on the one hand, the effective application of the operational forces of the Defence Intelligence Service to the core tasks and, on the other hand, the need to avoid an unnecessary accumulation of information by the Defence Intelligence Service. The supervision of the intelligence services will continue to have a crucial control function in relation to the processing of information by the Defence Intelligence Service, thus continuing to provide a significant guarantee of legal certainty. In addition, citizens will be able to use the indirect system of insight through which the Monitoring of Intelligence Services can assist citizens to check whether the Defence Intelligence Service wrongly processes information about them. The draft law as a whole follows similar legislative changes already adopted for the Police Intelligence Service. The draft law thus means that uniform rules will continue to apply to the processing of information by the two intelligence services, as was also provided for in the report by the so-called Wendler-Pedersen Committee. In conclusion, let me stress that the draft law as a whole strengthens the capabilities of the Defence Intelligence Service to resolve its important tasks with, among others, the following: to prevent and counteract threats to Denmark and Danish interests while respecting legal certainty. In committee we will of course answer the questions raised by this draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302104735	Thank you, Minister. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302104740	Thank you. In the letter to the Defence Committee from the predecessor of the Secretary of Defense, Mr. Peter Christensen shows that this information has been obtained for a long period of time without any legal basis for it. This is serious. What I shall try to ask is whether, during the period in which these specific information has been obtained, any information has been provided which has helped to prevent terrorism?
ParlaMint-DK_20170302104817	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302104819	Because of my short service as Secretary of Defense, I would like to ask Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen ask that question during committee reading so that we can answer it there. I cannot tell you on a stand-by basis what this has given rise to.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302104832	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302104834	Of course I will. Of course I respect the fact that the Minister is relatively new, but at the same time I must also say that when we discuss something as central as citizens' freedoms, as we are doing today, and where there is a proposal from the government that ordinary law-abiding citizens should be monitored by the state, and that is even something that has been going on for several years when it has been used, and now you want to legalise this supervision, you want to dress the government, I think that you had a handle on whether it is at all helpful or whether you simply postpone Mr. and Mrs Jensen for unnecessary violations of their fundamental freedoms.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302104921	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302104922	Now I would like to stress that the defense intelligence service and this bill are about foreign citizens. It's not about Danish citizens. The PET legislation, on the other hand, does. It's about Danish citizens. After all, this bill is about monitoring foreigners who may have intentions of committing criminal offences in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302104954	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Defence Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302105012	The debate is open, and that is Mr. Mogens Jensen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302105026	After all, this bill is, I can say, a good legislative proposal that we have negotiated between all the parties of the Folketing and which actually aims to help ensure that our libraries follow with time. Libraries are still one of the most important institutions in our society in terms of education and information • the ability of the Danes to access literature and information. Therefore, it is of course important that libraries follow with time and also match the Danes' needs. That is actually what the bill here is helping to secure. Digitalisation has created new opportunities for how to share as a user in the world of fiction and literature, and this is of course positive. Therefore, books that you can listen to and read digitally represent an increasing proportion of the use of libraries and the lending of literature. After all, with this bill, we are modernising the library tax system, that is to say the compensation given to the authors, so that we are allowed to borrow their books freely in libraries. We are modernising this in the light of some recommendations from a committee that has been set up. We are making it possible with this bill that authors of e-books and audiobooks can also receive their share of the compensation, i.e. the library fee, that we have today. We make sense of this by phasing in the change over a four-year period, and thus we change the balance between borrowing physical books and lending e-books and changing the payment of compensation for it in a flexible and good way. But, of course, the law provides for an evaluation to be carried out after the phase-in period. The draft law also provides for the lower limit on library fees to be reduced, i.e. what can be paid as author. Today it is about 2,180 kroner. If you get less than that, you don't get the money paid out, but then they pool to support the growth layer among the authors. That limit is now reduced to DKK 1,250. That too is sensible and will therefore be more suitable, on the one hand, for more people to get a share in the library tax and, on the other hand, for us to support the growth layer among authors, so that is also a good change. So all in all, it is a proposal that helps to make our library fees system for library loans more up-to-date and ensure that all authors can get a share in the funds provided in compensation. Against this background, the Social Democratic Party can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302105407	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302105410	Thank you. After all, the Danish People's Party started the whole discussion about the lower limit, which today is DKK 2,137. We simply wanted it to be lower so that more authors could benefit from the money and were paid for having their books on loan. We wanted an under limit of 500 kroner. This would mean that just over 15,000 authors would be paid out. Can the Social Democrats' rapporteur, sir? Mogens Jensen, explain to the House and to me why the Socialists did not support an under limit of DKK 500.?
ParlaMint-DK_20170302105452	Sir. Mogens Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302105454	As far as I know, the Danish People's Party has joined the 1.250 DKK. I have heard the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party say that during the negotiations. We had a very, very pragmatic discussion about where it was reasonable to set this level, and there was complete agreement that the 1.250 DKK. was a reasonable rent. For the Social Democratic Party, it would not have been a problem if we had gone further down. We did not have any particular views on this in the debate, so I am a little surprised that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party is asking this question because the Danish People's Party has itself agreed to this limit.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302105540	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302105542	We proposed during the negotiations that it should be down to DKK 500, but I really hear the Socialists say that they want to go further down, and we can then table an amendment that it should be down to, for example. 500 kroner. or 750 kroner. I actually see it as an outstretched hand from the Socialist rapporteur, who shows that they really want a lower limit. So my question is really just: will the Socialist rapporteur help to table an amendment during the committee debate on a lower limit?
ParlaMint-DK_20170302105616	Social Democrat rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302105618	I think that is an amazing statement by the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. We have sat in a circle of parties and made an agreement that everyone agreed on and that we have found the appropriate balance and the right thing to do in this situation. Well, it wasn't sir. Alex Ahrendtsen, who was the rapporteur, and I understand that it was another rapporteur who, on behalf of the Danish People's Party, has joined this and suddenly it has to be changed. I find that strange. Social democracy stands by the agreements we make in a negotiating circle, including the border that is here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302105700	Then it's mr. Morten Marinus, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302105703	I should just like to ask the rapporteur whether he cannot confirm that during the negotiations the Danish People's Party has just proposed that the bottom limit should be DKK 500 and that what was actually agreed at that meeting is because there was no majority or wish among the other parties to set it as low as DKK 500. was sent in consultation, but not that Dansk Folkeparti on that basis noded yes to that bottom line being DKK 1,250, only that it was sent in consultation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302105730	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302105731	Now I think it is a bad idea to start referring from debates where compromises must be reached in all cases, whether in one place or another. And there I can only say that the starting point for the debate we had was that we agreed that the rent on which we landed was reasonable, precisely the DKK 1 250, and I honestly think the Danish People's Party should stand by that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302105803	Sir. Morten Marinus.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302105805	Then I just don't understand the rapporteur. If the rapporteur says that the 1.250 kr. I just do not understand why he said in his rapporteur's speech that he would have liked the limit to be lower.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302105817	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302105818	I didn't say that. I told you, for us, the amount is $1,250. The Social Democrats have therefore backed it up in the same way as the Danish People's Party has done so until now in the negotiations, but that is clearly something that needs to be changed. And we'll have to take a look at that. If the Danish People's Party now wants to go beyond what we have agreed in the negotiations, then of course we will take this into account in the discussion on the bill. That's the way it has to be.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302105852	Sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302105853	Thank you. It is just to clarify this, because I actually understood that what was agreed when we negotiated it was to send something in consultation. Therefore, I would like to hear whether the rapporteur agrees that, if there have been some objections in some hearings, it is quite reasonable that parties should take them into account and bring them into the discussion, including in the context of the continued discussion of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302105920	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302105921	Yes, of course. After all, the legislative proposal has not been adopted until it has been adopted, and our starting point, as I say, is flexible. I just thought that in this discussion we landed at the 1.250 kroner, and that there was agreement in the conciliation circle. But of course, as I have also said, we can discuss it further, and we have determined nothing more than what we have agreed for the time being in the conciliation circle.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302105954	Will Mr. Søren Søndergaard have a line? No. I would like to thank the rapporteur and then move on to the next rapporteur. It's sir. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302110008	Thank you, President. After all, this is an excellent proposal in many ways, because in future the authors will be taxed on the lending of e-books and audiobooks. It had happened that e-books had increased very strongly, but the authors did not get any money for those loans, and we are correcting that now. The money comes from the library tax pool as a whole, so the state does not get any more expenditure, but the money for lending printed books is getting a little smaller, and that is actually a sensible way to do it. Then there will be such a transitional model. What I really want to spend time on is of course also talking about the fact that at some point we will have to discuss the e-reol as it works, but it is not part of this proposal and there I hope we can find a sensible solution. In addition, we have wanted the Danish People's Party to have the lower limit significantly reduced. It's 2,137 kroner. Now. Sir. Morten Marinus was the rapporteur in this area because I was in Switzerland on educational leave and fought a brave fight to have a lower limit of DKK 500. We started the whole discussion because we thought it was unreasonable that so few people actually got a share of the money, and so that it was not even a lie, the money that was not paid out was collected in a pool and given to the authors who were given in advance. So all the people, the thousands of writers who had books standing, didn't benefit at all from these funds. It was against this background that we proposed that the lower limit should be significantly down, down to 500 DKK, which would mean that 15,000 authors would be paid out. With the current bottom line, which is a compromise, there are, of course, significantly more people who are being paid out. Instead, it's 33 percent. of the authors, it is 42 per cent. That is a step in the right direction, but, as was also pointed out, it was agreed after a round of consultations to look at it. I have listened to what the Socialists have said. It has blurred a bit in the wind, but I have at least heard them say that you would like to look at it, especially after Mr Seligman. Søren Søndergaard's question, and I think we should do so during the committee procedure. I think we should try to agree in the Folketing to put it down further. We know that there are many authors who are sorry that they do not get an appreciation for having their books standing, they simply have them standing for free. That's not fair. Of course, there has to be a lower limit because there are some administrative costs, but 500 DKK. I find it a mystery that the Socialists do not accept the outstretched hand from the Danish People's Party, so that we can reach a lower limit of about 500 DKK. I therefore hope that we can agree on an amendment. I will ask Mr. Søren Søndergaard, whether he wants to help somehow change the sub-limit. He can also discuss it in his rapporteur's speech if he wants to. At least now he can think about it. The last thing I want to talk about is the maximum. The border. We had actually also in the Danish People's Party wanted to maximum. The limit was somewhat lower than it is today. The first 464,000 kroner. is paid out without reduction. Of the amount between DKr 464,000. and 619.00 kroner, you will then receive only half, and of a total of more than 619.000 kroner. You get paid a third. But quite a few people are skimming the cream. I have looked at the figures that I got in 2015, and there are 337 writers who get over 100,000 kroner. That says something about the few who benefit from these funds. You can also look at the authors who have been paid money over the last 10 years, for example. Bjarne Reuter got 7.8 million. kr. for the 10 years. Benny Andersen and Cecil Bødker have got 5.7 million. kr. etc. etc. So there are few authors who skim the cream of a scheme which is a cultural aid scheme, and that is why we are still allowed to have it in Denmark. So summa summarum, a good step on the way We look forward to committee reading and hope that we can change some things with Parliament's parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302110514	Thank you, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen. There are some brief comments. Sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302110518	Thank you. The discussion about the lower limit is a reflection of how the library tax is perceived, and there has been the starting point so far that the library tax is not a mere compensation, but that the library tax is a cultural support, a way in which we ensure that professional authors are given the opportunity to obtain an amount that can help them or ensure their maintenance. And the further down we go, the greater the number of those who get, such as. are people who have a particular profession and write one book about it, or people who have a particular hobby and write one book about it, but where there is no more production, the more one can say that it is not going to support but is a pure compensation scheme. And that's why I'd like to hear from Mr. Knox. Alex Ahrendtsen related himself to: What are we looking for? Is it a mere compensation scheme or is it a cultural aid scheme?
ParlaMint-DK_20170302110620	Here you go, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302110622	That is an excellent question, and I would like to reply briefly and say that I really think it is both. It is reasonable to receive compensation for making your books available free of charge, but we also have to regard it as cultural support for the sake of the Danish language and for the sake of the authors. So I actually think it's both. But it is worth an excellent question and a fundamental discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302110648	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302110650	Yes, it is a matter of principle, and I shall also refer to it in my rapporteur's speech. However, the risk of the proposal to lower the limit, at least too far down, is that we are going to get in the situation that some people who have at some point been admitted a book to libraries, who have not been lent in the last 10 years, are going to continue to receive support, so that there is no longer any link between loans and so that people continue to receive support. And the question is whether it really is particularly appropriate for people who have at one time written one book to be able to receive support for years after that because it stands in a certain number in libraries.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302110732	Here you go, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302110734	But the scheme is so connected that it is not enough to have the book standing, it must also be loaned, and on the basis of the loan you will then be paid out money on the basis of a complicated score system. So it's really evening itself out.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302110750	Then it's Mrs. Britt Baker, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302110754	Thank you. And thank you, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen for a very fine speech. You can hear that this is something that is very much at the heart of the rapporteur. What I would like to hear is the triviality of this issue on which we had a discussion, on which the rapporteur himself also refers where it should lie. It was something we spent a long time treating, and we ended up at DKK 1,250. We also agreed in this regard, when we started by referring to the negotiations, that we should talk about it after we had received the hearings. That's why I've read the hearing answers, and there's not one of the hearing answers that described that these 1,250 kr. Should be a problem. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur: on what basis does the rapporteur want to change this limit? If that is what I hear the rapporteur say.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302110848	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302110850	I have received a number of requests from authors who have not submitted a hearing reply because they do not sit on the boards of the organisations that have participated in the hearing and they have all pointed out that it would be sensible to lower the threshold even further so that they are compensated for the availability of their books.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302110910	Mrs. Britt Baker.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302110911	We must always take citizens' concerns seriously, and I agree with Mr McMillan-Scott. Alex Ahrendtsen in. There are a lot of people who have sent in consultation answers, a lot of associations, and that is why I think that when we send a legislative proposal in consultation and a long period has been set aside to give a hearing answer, we will also have to be able to count on it personally. But I just have to ask to get it right. Alex Ahrendtsen to propose amendments to this bill, or what is it the rapporteur would like to do in relation to the de minimis limit?
ParlaMint-DK_20170302110957	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302110959	Yes, we want an amendment, and I hope that we can get a majority, or that we can get the support of Parliament's parties at all, so that we can compensate more authors for having their books on the library bookshops. It would be nice if we had a limit of about 500 kroner. That would be great, so we have this balance between compensation and cultural support.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302111032	Then it's mr. Mogens Jensen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302111034	Thank you. I hope that Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen had a good leave down in Switzerland while we were watching while Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen was down there, negotiated this proposal. And what I would like to hear, also in relation to other negotiations that we should have, is whether we should expect in the future too, because it is not Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, who has negotiated a proposal, then the Danish People's Party runs away from the compromises that we actually find out through long negotiations and suddenly has a different attitude. But, as I said, this is not something that has in any way been cut into granite for Social Democracy. We just agreed with a circle where we discussed it back and forth and reached this compromise. Here we go, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen's home, and it's all gonna have to be changed. Is this not a rather untrustworthy way of representing the Danish People's Party in negotiations where one should be able to trust one another?
ParlaMint-DK_20170302111136	Here you go, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302111137	We have been very consistent all the way through. As Mr. Morten Marinus has also said, we met the negotiations with a demand for 500 kroner, and we have started the whole discussion that we want a lower sub-limit, as low as possible. I think that is actually very consistent and straight-lined. I also hear the Social Democrats say that they would like to look at that sub-limit, even if a compromise has been reached among the parties, and we will accept that. That is why we are going to try, by means of an amendment, to bring this sub-limit down further for the benefit of the authors. Then I would just like to congratulate my fellow parliamentarian, sir. Morten Marinus, who has done a good job. So, when you are in politics, you try to reach a compromise, and we stand by that. But we will also try to get our policy through as far as possible, and when you have a parliamentary procedure over three times, it also means that the parties can go in and change the bill in the direction they want. There's nothing wrong with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302111246	Sir. Mogens Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302111249	Well, you can always go in and change something during a legal procedure, but what I am just arresting here is that we have sat in the chair and had long discussions about this and have considered levels back and forth, and then you find each other in a compromise. And then because Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen is not in the debate, but there is another rapporteur from the DF who accepted that compromise, so things need to be changed when Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen will be back. I mean, I don't think this is a proper way of working, and I just have to repeat that for us this isn't cut in granite, but our starting point will be the compromise that everyone has sat around and nodded to, and which sets a level that is therefore a halving of the level that we have had in the past. So that will be our starting point in the negotiations. But I'm gonna have to ask sir. Alex Ahrendtsen again, if he thinks this is a fair way of working politically.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302111348	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302111349	This is, of course, the ordinary way of looking at what you would like to see of change during the legislative procedure. I actually think, sir. Mogens Jensen gets a little lost in the process jungle. However, take as a starting point what is crucial, namely whether we can get a lower sub-limit. I hear sir. Mogens Jensen says that it has not been cut into granite, and thus Mr. Mogens Jensen has also made it clear that we may be able to get a slightly lower sub-limit, and thus have set ourselves up to do something about it, and I think that is excellent. I thank you for that, and I hope that Mr. Mogens Jensen will live up to when we negotiate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302111424	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then it's Mrs. Britt Baker, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302111432	The main purpose of this bill is to modernise the library law so that authors will receive library fees for network and audio books in the same way as for physical books in the future. With the proposal, the government proposes to introduce library fees for e-books and webbooks and to reduce the de minimis limit for the payment of library fees, and that in future, amounts not paid as a result of the sub-limit will be distributed to authors who would otherwise have received a maximum of DKK 5,000. in tax. All parties are familiar with the details of the proposal here, so I will refrain from repeating them. On the whole, however, I would like to say the following about the proposal: as regards library fees on e-books and online audiobooks, it makes only good sense to modernise the system so that it is consistent with the developments we are seeing today. Authors, whether they publish physical books, audio books or e-books, should receive support on equal terms in the form of library fees. As far as the de minimis threshold for payment is concerned, a reduction will mean that more authors will receive support in the future, and this will benefit in particular the new authors who will be able to receive library fees to a greater extent. This is absolutely positive, not only for the authors concerned, but also for the book market and for readers. At the same time, we ensure that library fees continue to be targeted at authors who have the work of authors as their primary activity. All in all, the Left, along with the other parties, is very much in favour of this proposal, partly because the proposal involves the necessary modernisation of the current legislation, partly because the proposal ensures a more level playing field for the distribution of the tax to the authors. Against this background, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302111632	Thank you to Mrs Britt Baker. Sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302111638	Thank you. In fact, I agree with Mrs Britt Baker about the minimum limit and also the argument that it should not go down any further. However, I would just like, in the interest of the truth, to address the question raised by Mrs Britt Baker before to Mr Beyer de Ryke. Mr Ahrendtsen, if Mrs Britt Baker is not able to confirm that the Committee for the Protection of Scientific Work, abbreviated to the word UBVA, is actually calling in their hearing for a reduction in the minimum limit, i.e. a payment without redistribution down to an administrative trivial limit, as they write. So there are, in fact, some who have made it in the hearings, as others have done in relation to the opposite end of the scale.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302111724	Here you go, Mrs. Britt Baker.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302111725	I can confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302111732	There are no further comments? No. Thank you to Mrs Britt Baker. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302111749	We are, as a starting point, very positive about this proposal, and so are we, because we have been in negotiations on it and have helped to put it in consultation. We think it is time for a library fee to be introduced for the loan of e-books and online audiobooks. So we think it's really brilliant. We also think it is the right objective in the long term to reconcile the various technologies through which libraries lend. For us, it is not crucial whether we are lending via an electronic method or through a printed method. In the long term, the library fee must be platform-neutral, and that is an intention which lies in this proposal, which we can certainly support. In order for it now to be properly balanced, we also think that a transitional regime is good, which means that the previous beneficiaries of the library tax will not have significantly changed conditions overnight. We can, of course, discuss the specific percentages allocated to e-books, and we can also discuss how long the transitional regime should be exactly, such as for example. The Danish Library Association does so in their consultation answer. But basically we are in favour of such a transitional arrangement. This does not mean, however, that we will be sitting on our hands in committee because we do think this is an excellent opportunity to examine and discuss some things in committee. Whether or not it provides the basis for amendments, we have to see. If there is agreement on this, it will be obvious, but at least that is something that needs to be discussed. The first question is the basis that has existed so far, because the library tax, which is now being changed in relation to the electronic books, e-books, sound network books, the stock principle, that is, the fact that the number of books purchased at a given time counts with a very, very high weight. That is something we must, by its very nature, move away from now, in relation to when we talk about the net, but it still applies to the rest, and we think that is worth a discussion. We also think it is very good to have a more concrete examination of the minimum payment and, for that matter, the opposite progression that is taking place in relation to those who receive a very large library fee. Our position is, and that is why we support the proposal, as a starting point, that the library fee is about supporting professional or semi-professional artists and not for years supporting people who have written a single travel report or a single political pamphlet. I am not very angry that I am not getting for the excellent book called "Metalworkers struck back," as I wrote 1978 and which is found in several libraries, but which has not paid me a fortune. I think that's fair too, because it probably won't make me write any more books that I get 400 kroner. for it. However, it is interesting to see whether the minimum threshold actually hits some who publish more works or whether it only hits some who only publish a single book. We can, of course, use the committee procedure to do this, as we can use the committee procedure to discuss whether it would not be reasonable to have a sharper degression compared with those who earn the most. I think that if you have a large number of loans in the library, it is fair that you can get a livelihood from it, but there is no reason why you should actually become a millionaire of it. The last thing we would also like to discuss is how we perceive printed books and e-books in the same way and how we see it more as a whole. We know that there are publishers or authors who do not want to put their e-books in libraries. Something might be resolved with this proposal because there will now be a library fee for it, but what if it doesn't solve everything? Can one imagine the situation in which authors and publishers actually want their printed books in libraries, because it actually gives quite a lot of money, but do not want the audiobooks in libraries because there is a much more efficient and inexpensive form of distribution? Will this be something that we accept, or should we make some common guideline? These are some of the things that we will discuss in committee with the rest of you, and we hope, of course, that this will be a good discussion. Overall: we support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302112251	There is just one brief comment from Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302112255	I would actually just like to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur for his speech and the open approach that the rapporteur has to this whole legislative proposal. I look forward very much to the committee reading and hope that perhaps we can reach some kind of agreement on a few changes. So I thank the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302112314	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302112316	Well, then it's only gonna be good.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302112318	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Leif Mikkelsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302112330	Thank you. This has been a while along the way. Five years ago, a committee was set up and they then presented a report two years ago containing a number of recommendations which took account of developments in e-books, net audiobooks, etc. Then the Minister for Culture has now put a proposal on the table, and we in the Liberal Alliance have the habit of being quite in agreement with the Minister for Culture. That is why I do not need to add so much other than that we think that the Minister for Culture has had a good hand here too in putting a fine proposal on the table, which will then form the basis for the work of the committee which is now under way. So it is a sign that we are in fact backing up the Minister for Culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302112415	Thank you. The next rapporteur is not here, Mrs Zenia Stampe, on behalf of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302112426	The short message from up here is that we support the proposal, and I can say at the outset that I should also announce from both the alternative, which is not here, and the SF, that they also support the proposal. Then I would like to add a few words to it to explain why we support the proposal. We think it is very sensible for such modernisation to take place and for the library tax to become more platform-neutral. But there's no doubt that when you change the conditions for cutting a cake and who gets something in this way, it can have major consequences. That's why we're doing it, too. It's kind of to reward those who write e-books. I don't think anyone in here thinks it's fair that you don't get any money because your work has been published as an e-book and not as a physical book. That is absolutely to their advantage and quite fair and fair. But there is no doubt that there are also some on the other end wondering what that means to them. That is why we also think that it is right and proper, on the one hand, to propose a gradual phase-in phase-in phase-in phase, and, on the other hand, to propose an evaluation in the course of phase-in phase-in phase-out. It is partly about the distribution between the digital media and the physical media, but it is also about the point system that needs to be created for the distribution of funds for digital loans. It's an announcement, but it's also something, I suppose, we're gonna deal with: how is this point system gonna be put together? Should it be a hundred percent depending on loans, or should it have different weights as in the physical field? I can't say that now, but I can just say that this is of course something that we want to dive into, and that I think everyone else here will have an interest in diving into, because the purpose is, as it is said from up here, not just to compensate the individual author. It is also to give art support, and there we can then discuss what we want to support and how it should translate into the different points and weights. In those words, I would like to conclude again that we support the proposal, and so do the SF and the Alternative, which they have asked me to announce.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302112644	Thank you to Mrs Zenia Stampe and, as she has informed the SF's position, we move on to the Conservative People's Party. Sir. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302112654	E-books contain the same text as the printed book. We all use electronic devices to read news, and many also use them to read e-books. It is therefore only fair that the authors also receive money for their books to be borrowed in an electronic version. The electronic text has the same content as the printed version, and the same work has been done in writing the book. A writer should not therefore be punished for having readers who prefer to read the electronic version. Personally, I prefer the old-fashioned way of reading books, but it is a matter of taste, and of course writers whose readers prefer e-books should also be rewarded for it. In addition, we support a reduction in the lower limit of the library tax from DKK 2,137. DKK 1,250. It is a compromise that a majority behind it strengthens less-read authors and provides an incentive to write books, even if you are not a much-read author. The Conservative People's Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302112816	Thank you. Then it's the Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302112834	Thank you. The world is changing and libraries are changing, the authors are changing, the platforms are changing, and so, of course, it is okay to go in and look at what kind of regulatory framework you have around this. I would like to thank you for the comments that have been made in this debate. I am pleased to note that there is generally political support for the proposal. The reason for the proposal was, of course, that we received a report in 2015, and this report actually proposes introducing a library fee for e-books and net audiobooks, which is quite appropriate in the time we live in. So the draft law implements the report's recommendations, for which there has also been broad support during the hearing. At the same time, it is proposed to reduce the lower limit of the library fee from DKK 2,137. 1,250 kr., which means that this is about a halving we're talking about here. The amounts which will then not be allocated as a result of the lower limit will in future be paid to those who receive the least in library fees i.e. a maximum of 5,000 kroner. On the one hand, the consultation called for the digital pool to be larger and, on the other, for the proposed four-year phase-in period to make sense. It has also been problematic that from 2022 it is proposed to move to a more dynamic system, and here I think it is important that the library tax is a predictable income for authors, illustrators, etc. At the same time, the library tax must not be true, but it must keep up with the general development of society. I believe that the proposed system, which we are discussing here, strikes a good balance with regard to the considerations that have been expressed that we should take into account in the consultation process. In this context, I should like to draw attention to the fact that an evaluation of the system will be carried out before the dynamic model comes into force, so that we have an opportunity to visit it again here. Finally, we in the Ministry will continue to be in very close contact with the relevant parties in order to continuously assess whether the scheme is developing appropriately. With regard to the lower limit of the library tax, which, as I mentioned earlier and which we have discussed here today, has been reduced to DKr 1 250, I think that a very good compromise and a very good balance have been found, because we ensure that the system goes mainly to those for whom the authorship is the primary, and at the same time the change means that in fact there are more people who have the opportunity to enter and access the tax. But, of course, I have taken note of the comments that have been made here. Now we are going to start the committee procedure, and we are of course at the Ministry's disposal, if there is information and questions to be answered, etc., then they must finally be included in the process. With those words, I would like to express my support for the debate and support for the proposal. I look forward to further discussion in the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302113144	That sounds great, thanks for that. Yes, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302113150	Thank you. As far as the debate in this Chamber is concerned, a number of procedural questions have been raised by the Socialist rapporteur, Mr. Mogens Jensen. I should just like to ask the Minister whether it is true that a committee was set up by the Minister for Culture in 2012 that carried out a report and, on the basis of that report, some discussions were then started among the parties of the Folketing and with the Minister for Culture at the end of the table, but that as such they did not result in a vote agreement or an agreement text. Is it true that there were some discussions, and on the basis of it did the Ministry put forward a bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20170302113239	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302113240	That is absolutely correct. An understanding has been achieved, which is a very, very good concept. We had many discussions and discussions which led to what has now resulted in a motion for a resolution. That is what has been the process of it, and I think that we had some very fine and substantial discussions along the way, and I would like to sign for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302113303	Here you go, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302113305	Thank you for your answer. This also means that every rapporteur and every party has the opportunity in the debate to table amendments and to try to improve the legislative proposal when there is actually an understanding before the debate. Isn't that right? Is it not normal and customary in this Chamber to do these things?
ParlaMint-DK_20170302113331	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302113332	It is entirely up to the individual members of the Committee on Culture to consider how the matter will be dealt with, so I will refrain completely from interfering in that. I believe that the proposal now before us is at the right level with the right provisions and an opportunity to evaluate and re-try. So I leave it to the Committee on Culture to carry out the further examination.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302113354	Thank you, Minister. Then I give the floor to Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302113404	I would like to thank the Minister for the answers, which actually clarify very correctly what the whole process has been like. This gives me just the opportunity to say that the debate is completely open and that means that any party can table an amendment. There is no agreement text, there is no conciliation, there is no vote agreement. There have been some discussions and there has been an understanding on the basis of a report, after which the Ministry has drafted this bill. So it is perfectly normal, and it is entirely according to the book that Dansk Folkeparti would like to have a lower limit than the 2,137 DKK. In fact, I would just like to ask the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Mogens Jensen to consider whether it would not be possible to agree at some point in the committee's proceedings with the Danish People's Party and the other parties to have a lower sub-limit, when one has said that it is not cut in granite where the border lies. You do not have to answer, but you can go and think about things in the coming weeks before we start the treatment. Anyway, there's nothing to stop us from changing these things. There is no agreement, there is no conciliation text, there is no vote agreement; there has been an understanding and discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302113526	Thank you for that, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen. No one has asked for brief comments, so thank you for that. It does not appear that others have asked for the floor. That concludes the debate. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Culture. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302113548	The debate is open. It's the Minister of Business first.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302113610	I would like to start by saying that I think this is a good resolution. It requires the government to change the rules for the investment of pension funds in privately administered pension schemes. After all, the purpose of the resolution is to free up more funds for investment in entrepreneurship. In concrete terms, the proposal contains the following amendments: to reduce the minimum requirement for private pension savers' investment in a company from the current DKK 100,000. $50,000.; that the share of pension savings below 2 million. DKK, which can be invested in unlisted shares, is increased from 20%. 25%.(ii) restrictions on investment in unlisted shares in the part of the savings above 2 million. kr., removed; and finally, as the fourth, that the pool notice must be amended so that it is allowed to invest pension funds through e.g. loan-based crowdfunding platforms. I believe that one of our biggest challenges for growth in Denmark is a lack of capital, a lack of investment in our growth companies. If you look at our portfolio of companies in Denmark, you can see that we have a broad underforest of SMEs. We have also done so by various policy measures that it is reasonably easy to start your own business. But our big challenge is to make them grow bigger from being the small business, the one-man business, to getting bigger. One of the measures that we need to look at in this direction is to look at how we ensure more equity, how we ensure more investment in small businesses. And there I agree that this proposal can help to free up more funds for investment in entrepreneurship by increasing investment in unlisted shares. That's what we need. A different form of stock culture is needed. There is a need for several Danes to see a purpose in, both for Danish society, but also for themselves, that one gets invested in unlisted shares. In this way, you can build a foundation around the small entrepreneurial companies that get some capital and can invest in innovation and production and thus become more productive and employ some more people. But it is also important when you come up with the good ideas and I think it is good ideas that you take a holistic view when you set your economic policy. This applies both to the pension area and to growth policy. In spring 2017, we will come up with a 2025 plan setting out the framework for economic policy, including growth and labour supply objectives. Specific initiatives will come on a regular basis. Any initiatives in the areas covered by the proposal must be seen in the context of other considerations in order to strengthen the potential for growth for entrepreneurship. I don't want to rule out • because I think it is good that similar proposals can become part of government policy, but the timing and priority must be right and seen in the context of the overall framework of economic policy. Against this background, the government cannot support the specific motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302113930	Thank you, Minister. Then it's mr. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302113949	It is the small Danish entrepreneurs with a good idea that can be tomorrow's next big business. They are the ones who create the Danish jobs of the future. Therefore, we must ensure that Danish companies can be established, develop, grow and create more jobs. The present proposal from the Alternative aims to secure funds for investment in entrepreneurship. It is a good and sympathetic intention, no doubt, and it is also very concerned about securing social democracy. Then you would think that it was easy and straightforward and that the Social Democrats would say that we support this proposal, but it is also essential to look at how the money for investment in entrepreneurship is to be provided. Unfortunately, according to the alternative, this is to be done by creating the risk of the Danish pension savings shrinking, and so there is not so much money for the individual when the retirement age arises. We do not want to participate in the social democracy. If, for example, the alternative, as proposed, removes the limitation on how much one must invest in unlisted shares for that part of the savings that is in excess of the 2 million. kr., then it will mean that it is up to the individual pension saver to assess how much you want to invest in unlisted shares yourself. That sounds fine, of course. If there is a guarantee of a good return, it sounds good, but unfortunately that is not always the case. There is also the risk of losing your money and losing part of your pension savings. That is why we in the Social Democratic Party are sceptical about the proposal that has been put forward. We basically believe that it is important to safeguard the healthy Danish pension culture. That is why we believe that there must continue to be regulation to ensure that pension savings cannot be disguised on risky investments. This would affect the individual and potentially leave a huge gap in the treasury due to a lack of tax revenue. Social democracy cannot therefore support the alternative proposal. However, the Social Democratic Party is, of course, open to looking at how to secure more funds for investment in entrepreneurship. In the Social Democratic Party, we have played a proposal on the ground in our 2025 proposal, trust in Denmark.Trust in Denmark, as we propose to develop a model for more favourable tax conditions for investors who invest their money in entrepreneurs. We will increase the deduction for investments in start-ups. In concrete terms, the model may include a deduction for investment in entrepreneurship, such as: can be seen in the UK and Sweden. Finally, I would like to say that we cannot support the alternative proposal, but since the provision of capital for entrepreneurship is very much in our minds in the Social Democratic Party, we hope that during the spring some growth negotiations can be invited over with the Minister of Industry, where we can jointly ensure that there is an opportunity to deduct for investment in entrepreneurship. And so I have to give a greeting from the SF's rapporteur, who is unfortunately engaged in consultation in a parliamentary committee. Nor can the SF support the proposal, but it seems that there are also positive tactics in what is going to be discussed further with the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302114255	Thank you. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302114304	On behalf of the Danish People's Party, I would like to sign the alternative resolution. I always find it interesting that here in the Folketing we have the opportunity to discuss entrepreneurship and the conditions for entrepreneurship. Whether you think it is going well for Danish entrepreneurship or not, it is a fact that for many it can be difficult to provide sufficient entrepreneurship capital • also capital from well-meaning people who like the idea and believe in it. In the Danish People's Party we think this is the right way to go, and we would also like to take part in looking at some of the elements contained in this alternative resolution, for example the first two proposals. The first concerns the minimum requirements for investment by private pension savers in one company, where a reduction is proposed, and that is something that we can, in fact, see sense in. We can also see the common sense in the second proposal on the proportion of pension savings below 2 million. kr., which can be invested in unlisted shares, and the Alternative suggests that the limit of 20%. rises to 25 per cent. The reason why we cannot support the complete resolution is that we do not think that this area should be translated into botanised buds, and this is an expression of that. And the alternative itself writes in the comments on the resolution that it is part of an earlier initiative from the alternative of the last session. In the Danish People's Party, we would very much like to help ensure that more risk capital is provided. We know that capital is present, people have huge savings, and some would also like to use them, but we, as politicians, must also learn to answer to those who are going to burn themselves if they start spending a greater share of their pension funds on risky investments. We have to remember that when you invest in this way, it is often deferred taxes and gross assets that we are talking about, so we also have an interest that the pension savings that people have and that they need when they reach their retirement are as large as possible. And in relation to being responsible for that, I know who it is that will get the criticism if there is a headline on the front page of Berlingske about someone who has burned off large parts of his wealthy and sour-earned pension assets on something that sounded really, really good, but which one could unfortunately see ended up running into the sand. We hear here in the Folketing, also in the press, often about the cases where things are going very well and where people have made a lot of money on entrepreneurs and on new businesses etc., but we also have to remember the reverse of it, and that is that really, very many entrepreneurial companies never come into existence, to put it bluntly ■ they run out into the sand. Some close and turn off, others go bankrupt, etc., and there are also a lot of people who lose savings and capital that they may have guaranteed in these companies with friends and family and all sorts of other places. It is not to paint a certain person on the wall, but we need to be sure that it is going on in a good way, and there we do not think that, as the motion for a resolution says, the government should be required to come up with a concrete, well-defined legislative initiative in one month's time. It is to be hoped that there will be a speedy procedure in the department, but I do not think that we can do so as soon as possible. The Danish People's Party is suggesting that there will be some negotiations later this year, where we will make a single package, and where I also hope that the alternative will be included, because there are actually many good elements in this proposal, and of course we will also have to bring them in. However, I would like to appeal to us to have a common agreement for the benefit of Danish entrepreneurship and enterprise. Those were supposed to be the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302114658	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302114706	Thank you. I would also like to congratulate the alternative for having tabled the motion for a resolution, in which others have, of course, explained the details, namely to release more of the Danish pension funds to create investment for our entrepreneurs. I remember back to when we relaxed the rules at the time. I think it's been 2007 or 2008 or 2009. Until then, it had been completely impossible for Danish pension savers to invest in unlisted shares. Fortunately there was a majority in the Folketing who said: let us now try to let Danish pension funds play a greater role in attracting capital to unlisted shares. I admit that, if I remember correctly, the ambition of the Left and the then government was slightly greater than that of the time when we landed, but that is what we were able to gain support for. The reason why we did so is, in fact, the same as the reason for what we are being presented with today, and I am basically in complete agreement with that, namely that it is important that we ensure access to risk capital for entrepreneurs. This is important and, of course, we must support it. I cannot, of course, stand by and say that this is something very distant to me, because it is something that is very much part of the previous Left Government's 2025 plan. So in general terms, I think the proposal gives a very good response. However, there is always one but I am, in fact, very much in line with what both the Minister for Business and the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party said, namely that it makes good sense to take it here in a wider context. A new government has been formed which is in the process of making various initiatives in a wider context. I think it makes the best sense for us to take this in a wider context. There are many initiatives in the area of entrepreneurship, which is why I have to say that there are many sympathetic proposals in it, but we think we should take it in a wider context. That is why we cannot just give a blank endorsement and then say: check, we will continue with that. But, of course, we are happy to discuss it in committee, because there are certainly good prospects in it. I have also promised to welcome the Conservative People's Party and to say that they would also like to see things running in a context, and therefore cannot support the resolution as it stands at this stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302114952	Thank you. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302114958	Thank you. Denmark actually has a very strong entrepreneurship with lots of fire souls and many good ideas that bloom out there. The Danish Parliament's Business, Growth and Export Committee visited a number of companies on Funen and South Jutland the other day. One of them was Universal Robots, which is a good example that a good idea can start in the basement of the university and grow bigger and can end up becoming a company with a great many employees who contribute to Danish society in terms of jobs and tax payments. It is, of course, a very good thing for society and for the people who get a job, and indeed for those people who see an idea start in the very small and grow and become something. Such ideas are needed, and this kind of driving force is needed in every society. We also got the impression from this committee that the tale that the biggest problem for these companies is capital, i.e. access to capital, did not actually agree. They saw the recruitment of labour as the greatest problem now and here, especially in the field of engineering. Now, of course, it was also a special industry that we were over to visit, but I think it is really important that we also have a very high focus on the issue, that is, how we get trained the workforce that is needed. Because it doesn't help much with capital if you can't go out and find the manpower you need to develop your business. However, it is true that there are also some challenges in the area of obtaining capital, and we really think that this problem is relevant to look at and solve. You have to remember that there's a myriad of different ways of getting this capital, and the public sector has a role to play. There are very often people who criticize Enhedslisten for wanting to establish what they call a state bank; I usually call it a publicly run bank. But it is actually the case that in this area we have a number of public banks, we have a growth fund, we have the Innovation Fund, which is all engaged in public credit. It is as if it is often a little lost in the debate. We would like the public sector to play a greater role than it does today. And we could also understand by the visit we were on the other day that for example. The Innovation Fund has played an extremely positive role in the development of the robot cluster in Odense. So it was just to make a little ideological mark. Having said that, we are immediately in favour of the alternative resolution. Questions have been raised about some uncertainties which I think are relevant. So, of course, you have to consider whether this goes too far in terms of creating uncertainty about the Danes' future pension payments, because that is what this is all about. It is not a good idea if, suddenly, when you grow old, you experience that the money is spent and you have nothing to live for. That is why today there are the demands on how much one must invest in these slightly more uncertain forms of investment. But this is not a question of occupational pensions; it is a question of the private pension savings which lie next door. And for the vast majority of Danes, it is, after all, the occupational pensions that are supposed to ensure that safety. So we are immediately in favour of the proposal. Again, I would like to make a call for consideration. We're talking about this, that it's people's own money, and that's true, but sir... Hans Kristian Skibby is quite right that a large part of it is also deferred taxes and thus the community's money, if you may say so. In general terms, we feel that business support may be a very good idea, but we also think it is reasonable that when you contribute Community funds, you should also make demands the other way. It could be in terms of sustainability, it could be in relation to pay and working conditions and other issues. We think it is worth thinking about whether there should be some requirements for the companies that can be invested in. However, we think that the proposal is positive, especially this focus on crowdfunding, which we know is a growing part of the way investments are made in start-up companies and entrepreneurship, and we think that the alternative is very good. We want to take a positive view of this, but of course we want to raise some of the issues which have also been raised here in the debate during the committee's deliberations.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302115458	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the last rapporteur before lunch, sir. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302115512	Thank you. Well, like the other rapporteurs, I would also like to start by saying that this is a very good proposal from the Alternative. We have had similar thoughts ourselves. And it may not be entirely unrealistic to imagine that this could become a reality even during this reign. So there is praise for the alternative for putting forward the proposal, but we cannot support it, and I think the alternative was also aware that we could not, because we cannot, of course, lay down a concrete proposal ahead of some growth negotiations and a growth plan that comes at some point. But when they come, I hope that there can be a positive dialogue between the government and the alternative, and that the alternative will also be positive with regard to a similar proposal if such a one is played out by the government; I must almost expect them to be. So it is a good proposal, but we cannot support it as a motion for a resolution as growth negotiations are under way.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302115644	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then there is a rapporteur who has a little time pressure. That is why Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left, is coming up now. Here you go. And then we'll take a lunch break after.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302115654	Thank you very much for making it just before lunch so that I can reach a consultation at noon. 12.45 in another rapporteur's property. So I have to be brief and not go too deep into this. In fact, I think that there are a great many positive tactics in the proposal put forward by the alternative here. And on the part of the Radical Left, we would very much like to take part in looking at whether these limits are right and how it can be ensured that more of these funds can go to entrepreneurs, i.e. to various entrepreneurial investments, but of course all the time with a guarantee that we must have a knowledge of the investments we make, so that we do not have people who come out to the other end and have lost their pension assets on risky investments. So it makes sense to have a number of limits, but if they are exactly the right place, I am not entirely convinced, and that is why I think it is some good pragmatic proposals that the alternative has come up with here. And if we can get the drill out of what the real consequences will be, in other words get a slightly clearer picture of it, then we will certainly be very positive in looking at the first two proposals in a committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302115749	Thank you. Then I'll postpone the meeting until 8:00. 13.00.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302130000	The sitting is resumed. We are dealing with motion for a resolution No. B 34, and we've reached Mr. René Gade in the rapporteur's line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302130023	Thank you. I do not think that everyone has just come back after lunch, but although not everyone is here, I would like to thank you very much for the very, very good way in which we deal with our motion for a resolution. I myself have often been sceptical about making motions for resolutions. As some people have also mentioned in the debate, although there is a great deal of agreement across the parties that large parts of our proposal are actually interesting and I will come back to the content of the government parties to say yes to it. This is the case sometimes with motions for resolutions, because there is something else in the pipeline that is simply something else that is planned. Having said that, however, I think that this has been a very, very constructive debate. Instead of sketching out all parts of the motion for a resolution, I will try to address the elements that have been raised in the debate and then suggest that we are working on a report here afterwards because there is so much to go on with that you might be able to do so and, in addition, try to see what the government is playing out with in this area. But what we have put forward in the alternative is that we would like to take the responsibility on ourselves as a political party to say that we really believe that the Danes can manage more freedom in relation to our pension funds. In other words, the pension funds which are tied to a certain form of investment, we would like to set free, so that there was more codecision so that they could also be invested in other forms of enterprise than is the case today. There are some who talk about us having a bond culture in Denmark, i.e. a little such a culture where you sew your funds into the mattress and do not dare to risk too much. We also have a welfare society that is built on a very high level of security, and our pension savings are very good in themselves in relation to the security that lies in the fact that you cannot crowd it all by investing too widely or too insecurely. These are also some of the comments that have been made. All I will do with regard to the motion for a resolution is to read out the four points that we make quite specifically. There are some who are a little insecure about whether we are giving too much away, i.e. whether we are simply risking our citizens' pension savings by setting them free. I would like to say that there is then a risk when people are free to be able to decide for themselves what pension funds they have. Then there will be a risk, and there must be information work on our part if we are to do this and it sounds like the government is planning to do something similar. So I would just like to take up the four points we are putting forward in recognition of the fact that we in Denmark have quite large savings in pension funds, also compared with other countries. So what we are actually proposing in the Alternative is as follows: • The minimum requirement for private pension savers' investment in one company is reduced from current DKK 100,000. to DKK 50,000. There we actually had in the Alternative's entrepreneurial package, which we came with last year, a desire to reduce the amount to DKK 20,000, so that the limit was as low as DKK 20,000. But the previous government came up with its proposal • A stronger Denmark - Growth 2016• in August last year, and there it was 50,000 DKK that was the limit. And what is characteristic of a motion for a resolution is the possibility to say: if we can now meet with the government somewhere where they have said they want to be there, then we can relax our ambition in this area a little. That's why we've been trying to say that we'll remove our ideal that the limit should be 20,000 kr. or down to 0 kroner, so that there is simply no bottom limit, and then we move it up to 50,000 kroner. to accommodate the government. I have also heard today that the new government is in favour of this. Then we have a proposal that the share of pension savings below 2 million. DKK, which can be invested in unlisted shares, is increased from 20%. at 25% • There has actually been quite a lot of interest in the debate to look at this. Where we have seen that there has been the greatest scepticism, it has probably been when we come down to the third proposal: the limits on how much can be invested in unlisted shares for that part of the savings that is above 2 million. kr., removed. We suggest that you can actually invest in unlisted shares without having a ceiling, i.e. when the amount is over 2 million. kr. In this there is clearly a risk, but as several have also said, it is an expression of the belief that we have a growth potential in Denmark that is not redeemed. So there are some stocks that are unlisted today and that are not being put into play in the same way, because there are some very, very large pension funds that cannot invest in them, and we would like to do something about that. So we have an ambition to create a more entrepreneurial Denmark. We are faced with a labour market that will in many ways be very different in the years to come and will require citizens to become more entrepreneurs and participate in new constellations, and more risk capital will be needed. There will be the balancing process, after all, so that we can ensure that we do not undermine the safety net we have with our pensions today, which is one of them. The rapporteurs of the Social Democrats and the Danish People's Party were quite keen on us not to give up on everything in the world. I very much agree with that. There we are confident that we can find solutions that will allow citizens to decide on pension funds in a way that does not undermine the safety net. The last element is the pool announcement, which we want to change, so that you can start investing pension funds in loan-based crowdfunding projects. This is a little more new, and Enhedslisten's rapporteur said that it was something very positive from the Enhedslisten side, and I also think that the Minister mentioned that it is certainly not inappropriate to look at these new forms of investment, that is, new ways of investing, where you go together to invest in company types, i.e. loan-based crowdfunding, and not where you just invest and see what happens, but where you make a real loan from one company to another company. It is a bit funny to be standing here because there is so much support for it, and from the government's side a strategy has been set in motion, we have today been told which is actually coming to, believe and hope to translate many of these things into individual adjustments. So I would actually like to suggest that in the work of the committee we might be able to come together to make a report. I have also already received statements which could perhaps go in the direction of looking at what we can agree on. From the point of view of the alternative, it will be a hint with a rod that we really want to go in and participate in the negotiations that are taking place on the government's new strategy. I have already noticed from the Minister that there is a great deal of goodwill to invite us with, even though for good reasons we do not have a tradition of so much participation as we are a new party in the Folketing. However, we are so involved in the business sector, and we very much appreciate this, and we will therefore also, as far as possible, when we come up with our resolution in the alternative, try to obtain acceptance from the Minister and the other parties before going to the Chamber, to see if there is anything we can meet about, or perhaps there is something that the government itself can go on with, that is, something that is already in the pipeline, so that we do not table a resolution on it. One thing is that I stand here and mark what we mean in the alternative, and I like to do that, because it is good to get our entrepreneurial agenda on the wallpaper. But another thing is that if it is something that is already in the hands of the government that wants to continue working on it, then we should not gather all the parties in the Parliament and spend the time promoting ourselves. One of the last things I want to say is that we have been trying to report what we were really up to. In other words, we simply sent the motion for a resolution around here to the other parties, with a rather awkward short deadline. I do not think there was much more than a day's time to react and to understand the motion for a resolution, and that can be a little difficult. So we didn't really get any acceptance from anyone that this was something you wanted to go ahead with. However, when we come forward later this year with proposals in relation to our entrepreneurship package, which we would like to see implemented, I would hope that, in the same way as I have seen today, we can have a very sharp dialogue on the things we agree on. So the alternative has put forward this resolution in the hope of creating a stronger entrepreneurship, and we openly share that hope with the government and all the other parties in the Assembly. And then there are some edges that need to be cut off here and here and something new that needs to be put on. So I would like to thank you very much for your excellent consideration of our motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302130852	Thank you, and as I heard, the Minister was actually praised by the opposition, so it is a very fine day. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302130916	The debate is open and I give the floor to the Minister for Industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302130937	The motion for a resolution calls on the government to carry out mandatory impact assessments of rural development legislation and outermost regions: the motion for a resolution calls for assessments to always be included in the comments of a legislative proposal and a summary table, even if the consequences are not expected to be significant. On Monday I attended an open rural hearing here at Christiansborg. Here I presented the government's decision that significant consequences for rural areas should be reflected in legislative proposals. The government basically wants the same thing as SF. The government wants a stronger focus on rural areas, and the government wants legislative proposals to set out significant consequences for rural areas. This applies to both the positive and the negative. With the government's decision, those intentions can be implemented in practice. The SF's proposal, which I think has a good intention, has the weakness that it will make it compulsory to carry out impact assessments of the impact of legislative proposals on rural and peripheral development. Because this will mean that it is all legislative proposals that need to be assessed in relation to rural areas and that assessments must always be included in the legislative notes. We do not want that. From a purely legal point of view, it is a quality in itself that comments on a legislative proposal are limited to referring to relevant matters. This restriction helps to ensure that those issues are addressed in a legislative proposal that is relevant to be taken into account. It is, after all, a long way from all the legislative proposals that we are dealing with in this Chamber that have consequences for rural areas. A new mandatory point will also raise questions about which other cross-cutting issues should also be included as separate mandatory points in the comments on a legislative proposal. A new mandatory point could, in time, have the unintended effect of losing the clarity of the fixed points and then losing the focus that I think all parties agree on: that there should be a focus on rural areas. And we don't want that. So the government will not extend the list of mandatory items with which all the consequences of the bill must be measured. It seems to me that the difference is more about technology and paperwork, and I believe that the SF's proposal can in the long term increase the scope and reduce the clarity of the comments on a legislative proposal. And that's why we can't support the bill. On the other hand, I would like to point out to all ministries that the impact of a bill on rural areas must be explained if the consequences are considered to be significant. This could happen after the government has revised the relevant guidelines. It is a work which is ready for publication before the summer holidays. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302131237	Thank you very much, Minister. There are a number of brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Magnus Heunicke, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302131244	Thank you for that and thank the Minister for being constructive and for presenting this proposal this week on what the government will do in relation to the revision of the Guide on Law Quality. And when I saw it, I looked up the current guide on the quality of law, and it says in chapter seven. 1 that both legislative proposals and administrative proposals should be assessed with a view to identifying significant regional consequences. For all legislative proposals and administrative proposals with significant regional implications, a further assessment of these consequences should be carried out. That is what it says today, so my question to the Minister is: what is the new step presented by the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20170302131331	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302131332	There is the obvious difference that it is not the regional consequences that we are looking at, but the consequences for rural areas. And there is a big difference, because one thing is that something can have consequences for North Zealand or North Jutland, but now we are looking only at rural areas and islands in relation to the consequences that may be. So we're going to go down two or three more spades.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302131357	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302131358	Thank you for the clear description. I think that sounds very wise and quite right, so just for the sake of completeness: you can say that the current regional focus must be maintained, but the government will suggest that, in addition to the guidance on the quality of the law, it will be possible to make a separate and in-depth assessment of it, if there is a risk or chance of • because it can also be positive that a bill will have consequences for rural areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302131433	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302131434	Yes, that is quite correct.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302131438	The next question in the line is Mr. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302131442	First of all, thank you for a constructive way of entering into the debate on such a future rural filter or what we would call it. I would just like to ask a little more about the difference between whether you should have all the legislative proposals through it or only the essential ones. I mean, I can easily hear the meaning of the Minister's argument, but the problem is just a little that when we leave it a little as it is today, we will often miss it. So I would like to ask the Minister: how can we make sure that this really happens? Because I have here an inventory from 2010 to 2015 of the ministries that, in relation to their own legislation, had to report in whether it had consequences for rural areas, and quite a few have done so. One might be surprised, for example, by the Ministry of Employment, which simply answers that they cannot point out that at any time in the five years they have needed to make an assessment of the consequences for rural areas. In other words, I can follow the argument that it should not be mandatory because, as the Minister says, one can lose focus. There may actually be a point in that, but the problem by not doing so is that we end up in such a situation where the ministries, if they only get a friendly recommendation, do nothing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302131558	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302131559	I think that's a perfectly fair line, as Mr. Karsten Hønge comes with us here. That is why I think it is important to emphasise that what the government wants is that in future legislative work we will clarify the significant impact of legislation on rural areas. So we have a responsibility in the various ministries to ensure that if a legislative proposal significantly affects the economy and adaptability of rural areas or other conditions, those influences should be emphasised directly in the legislative notes.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302131634	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302131636	Yeah, and if it was just like that in the best of all worlds, it could work too. What I can just be worried about is this whole thing, like... like... In what I have to say here, you can really say in the Ministry of Employment that for five years there has been no legislative proposal that has the regional implications. So perhaps we could jointly find ways of ensuring that the intention that I can hear clearly from the Minister actually goes through out there too. So, is it an evaluation that we are looking at after two years, or can we find some methods to ensure that it actually happens out there in the ministries and in the governments?
ParlaMint-DK_20170302131712	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302131713	Well, I'm gonna catch that ball right now. I think it is a good proposal that we should write in an evaluation when we come up with the concrete proposal. Because the intention is crystal clear, and that is why I share Mr. Karsten Hønge's intention with the SF's motion for a resolution is to pay attention to the rural consequences every time an important proposal is made. If it is the case that you ignore what you are not allowed to do, because it will be in the new guide for good legal quality, so the ministries must comply with it or if it is the case that you forget it, then it is important that it is evaluated whether you have now remembered to do so in the various ministries. And that's why I'm grabbing the ball right now and telling you that we're putting in an evaluation clause. I assume, of course, that it is done, but in this way we can follow up on it with an evaluation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302131804	Thank you. Then it's mr. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302131808	Well, then, in fact, we can, strictly speaking, stop here. I am a little curious about this, because I think that the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution backs something from his own proposal in his questioning with the Minister, but of course I am not going to interfere with that. In his speech, the Minister says that not all legislative proposals are concerned with rural areas and islands. No, of course you can find some foreign policy bills, or what I know, which may not just be about it. Otherwise, however, I would like to make the claim that the vast majority of legislative proposals really also include rural areas and islands, in that rural areas and islands are, after all, integrated parts of our country and our municipalities. And when you legislate it may be in educational matters; it may be about the municipalities; it may be about the economy, the municipal economy, the regional economy; it may not least be transport, even a construction law for a highway somewhere in the country etc.; housing tax, not least, has something to do with rural areas and islands. I can hardly think of anything that does not have to do with rural areas and islands too, and that is why I think it is a very sensible proposal. I will explain this later in my rapporteur's speech that it will actually be compulsory. But I am curious to hear whether the rapporteur for the authors of the motion is sticking to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302131925	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302131926	Yes, but sir. Henning Hyllested, we fully share the intention that all decisions should also be balanced in relation to rural areas, because it is so essential part of the policy that we must have on the part of the Folketing that we do not cleave Denmark in the middle. But the whole point of not making it compulsory is that if we do, it disappears in the amount of all the other mandatory themes, and then you disavow the mandatory one. The focus now being placed on it, where there is a call for attention to be paid to it, and that it should be stated and highlighted completely directly and explicitly in the legislative notes, when there are consequences for the rural economy, adaptability or other conditions, does of course mean that there will be greater focus on it, and it does not disappear in the flow of all sorts of other information.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302132024	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302132027	Yes, yes, but it may be that we really do not disagree so much when it comes to the matter. That depends on the concrete proposal that comes from the government, clearly. But you actually have a procedure for this, a way of doing it in the current legal procedure. We have the schedules that are being set up, etc. So I do not think it is an insurmountable task in this way. On the contrary, I think it might be a really good exercise for ministries and government officials to have their eyes fixed on the outlying districts when drafting legislative proposals. After all, most of the officials involved in the legislative process and the drafting of legislative proposals are people who live over here, and sometimes you have the impression, at least if you come out of the country, that the focus is a little different. By making it compulsory, you simply force it through and say:
ParlaMint-DK_20170302132128	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302132130	Yes, and I have only one intention, namely that there will be more focus on the challenges of rural conditions. And there is our assessment, then, that if you make a mandatory demand for it, it drowns in intention, other than that it ends up with a lot of administration and bureaucracy. Then you don't have that priority, then it'll just be on the list. Go look, sir. Henning Hylllested, e.g. draft law. There's a long list of different things that you have to examine, cross off, check, done, right? If it's gonna be like this, you're gonna have to focus on it, and then it's gonna be a priority. That's the point of it. That's why we've chosen this solution. We could have chosen any other solution, but the intention has been to have a greater focus on rural areas, and the officials should then have it with this proposal because it has to be written into the legislative notes.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302132223	Then it is Mrs Sanne Bjørn, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302132225	Thank you. After all, I am very pleased that the Minister points out that the focus is on rural areas, because frankly I have to say that I think that in re-prioritisation contributions and educational savings I had lost a little in the fog, although of course government jobs were being relocated. I can also hear that this is a little a question of words, and my question to the Minister is this: how will the Minister ensure that it will not be a subjective assessment and whether it is politically appropriate to look at these consequences if it is only where you have been and now I am trying to see in the Minister's press release the other day? When should we assess whether this is a significant effect? Is it not a significant effect that re-priority contributions and savings in education, for example, have meant 10 000 jobs, many of them in rural areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20170302132337	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302132341	But you could have that discussion, whether it was mandatory or not. What is interesting here is that it is a priority that we agree with the proposers of the SF that we should focus on this, which is why the motion for a resolution is a good initiative. We ourselves feel that we have chosen a smarter way of doing this, which benefits rural areas and is not so bureaucraticly heavy. This will be reflected in the guidance sent out by the Ministry of Justice before the summer holidays to good legal quality, how exactly we will do it. There is, of course, something feinschmeckeri in doing so, but since the whole intention is that we should pay attention to rural conditions in the context of legislative proposals, it will of course be explicitly written in.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302132436	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302132438	With all due respect, it's kind of a free round to say that you're focused on it. What is important, of course, is to show how it is done in practice, in other words what the policy pursued by the government has in practice. That's what I'm a little preoccupied with here. If it is not compulsory or compulsory for all proposals, how will the Minister say to his ministry that this is something we give priority to in practice too, so that we do not ignore if it has less significant effects in order now to use the vocabulary in the press release?
ParlaMint-DK_20170302132515	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302132517	Well, that is just like the whole intention of the proposal with a land-district filter, namely that it must have significant changes, otherwise it will just disappear in the vast sea. It must have an impact on rural areas and then it can be given priority. A great many good things have been done with regard to rural areas over the last few years, as people have stood, I think, shoulder to shoulder in this Parliament, also by the then V government on the relocation of state jobs. There was an initiative that was carried out in 2015 with growth and development throughout Denmark with over 120 initiatives, and many of them have been implemented. We have looked at a modernisation of the law of plans. So I think that there are many good initiatives, and the interesting thing is, I think we agree in the Folketing that there is a need for greater focus and priority for it, and that is the government's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302132610	We can thus thank the Minister. Then we start the rapporteur's round, and the first one is Mr. Magnus Heunicke, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302132628	Thank you. Thank you to the SF proposers for this re-submission. I think we must also thank those who have worked so hard in Denmark, not least the Joint Council of Rural Regions. And it must be said that this work has borne fruit, because we have just heard the Minister, and we saw this week that he was out with it. This is how it often happens in the Danish Parliament, namely that if you have a good agenda and you have a concrete proposal, then it ends up with the government being there before you get the debate in the Folketing started. It's funny, it's always right before, and maybe it's just a coincidence. But at any rate the government is ready with something, and it certainly works on the two pages we have read so far and now we have heard the Minister here today as if it is going in exactly the direction that the proposal here points to. I have to say that I think that is sensible. There is, of course, the reservation that we have not yet seen the final outcome. The Minister said today and has also written that it will come up with concrete proposals before the summer, and we shall of course see that before we have the final assessment, but I think it is positive that we are now thinking along this path. I have to say that it is my experience to date that information on the consequences for our rural areas has been scarce in the information that has been on legislation, on issues and on other issues. Before Christmas we had a very, very big debate about a 2025 plan that I can now understand is scrapped. There'll be another one. I would then recommend that this should be done not only in the case of legislative proposals but also in the case of government plans. There one should have a far, far greater focus. For what we had to do with the last 2025 plan was that we had to use the Rural and Islands Committee to achieve in depth, in relation to what the consequences are of them and those and the elements for a Denmark that is connected, a Denmark in balance. In the debate here alone following the Minister's speech, it has been said radically that what about the government's policy on the re-priority contribution to education. We know there we have just had consultation with the vocational schools around where the pressure is. We had a visit from the school up in Thisted. We know how pressured they are, how small teams they have and how tight, tight the economy is. I think they had a profit last year of $40,000. Of course, a re-priority contribution of several million kroner a year cannot be paid without serious consequences for the presence of education in rural areas. We have been able to read in today's newspapers about the freezing of land which the government wants and what consequences it will have on the map and how to become the great winners in some places, while in rural areas you can look far after the gains that we all have to pay. So I think it has to be said that this is, to the best of my knowledge, an under-lit area. There is a need to get more light on it, more public debate on it, more documentation on it before we adopt legislation, and before we make compromises in the Folketing and over in the ministries. So thank you to the SF for making the proposal. Thank you to those who have been in the debates. But I would also like to thank the Minister for saying that he will go a long way. So we will wait until we have seen exactly what the minister and the government are going to put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302133012	Thank you. There is one brief comment, and it is from Mr. Karsten Hønge, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302133017	Well, thank you to the Social Democratic Party for the positive approach to it. The reason I pressed in is that, until the very last moment, I was in doubt as to what the conclusion was, because it was a little on the one hand and on the other hand, but I understand that, Mr President. Magnus Heunicke says you're going to wait for something from the government. But what is the position on the motion for a resolution? That's one. And the second is: what does it take for the Social Democrats to think it is good enough?
ParlaMint-DK_20170302133047	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302133048	The recommendation is, of course, that we should wait, as I said, but I understand that the rapporteur had pressed ahead before I had finished speaking. I understand that. It's what you do here. But then I can repeat our position on this. Our conclusion has been based on our preparatory work. But as we received a new announcement from the government on Monday about a new work that is being started and finished this summer and which has the same purpose, we must understand from the Minister's speech these days that the proposal here has, then we will see the result of the concrete work and assess it when we have it from the government. And if it turns out to be incomplete or if it turns out to have something that we are not satisfied with, then we will reserve the right to support a proposal like this, but that depends on what the government achieves.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302133137	There are no more questions. Then we have reached the next rapporteur, and that is Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302133145	Thank you very much, and thank you very much to the SF. I think it is very sympathetic that the SF focuses on the fact that it is a very good idea that we should just stop and look at what the legislation we are making from in here has implications for rural areas. I cannot help asking myself the question: when there has been legislation from Christiansborg which has had consequences for rural areas, has this happened on the basis of ignorance from politicians? As I know, it has not happened a single time that legislation has come out here from Christiansborg, where there has not been a hearing answer from some people in rural areas, from some rural organisations who have tried to draw our attention to the fact that we were just about to fool ourselves. I think that we have been given the knowledge we needed at all times, and then it has been ignored. And that is another matter. In the years I have worked as rural rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, it is since 2011 that I have become acquainted with a great many rural organisations and with a great many people in rural areas, and I have also been acquainted with government officials, and I cannot yet give a single example of the officials in the ministries being more advanced in their knowledge of rural areas than the people who live and live out there that the organisations represent. So I can ask myself the question: what kind of knowledge can they enrich us with that rural organisations cannot enrich us with? After all, you already have impact assessments with economic consequences and environmental consequences, and it can also be said that it is very straightforward to say: how much does this cost? What kind of nature is there in the area where we are considering plowing a way through? You can say that is the way to feel, but when you talk about rural areas, you talk about derived effects in the second, third, fourth, fifth and sixth indents, and forget about thinking that you can get them into an impact assessment. That's never gonna happen. So if we imagine it, I can't help but think about it: can it hurt to do something like that? To be honest, can it even harm rural areas? And then I think: No, it can't do that, at least not as long as we have some sensible politicians in here. But I have also met politicians in here who believe that calculations from the ministries are the honest truth. So if, in one hand, you have an impact assessment that goes no further than the other, and in the other hand you have a consultation answer from the Rural Council, which says that no, this is much worse, because they have all these experiences and it has gone much more wrong in the other cities, so that is simply not enough, then I would not rule out that there may be politicians who can say that this is not true because it has been calculated. And it is such a situation where I can think that it can even counter rural areas. But I must also admit that my prime task and the primary task of the Danish People's Party is to take care of the rural areas and the people who live out there, and what I have noted is that the people who live in rural areas, through their organisations, are standing in the floor to have this impact assessment incorporated into our legislative proposal, and if that is their wish, I would very much like to go ahead with it. But as you can hear, I have some concerns about how we can do this enough. I am certainly not opposed to the fact that this is something we can work on in the long term. However, as I said, there is a whole lot we need to take into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302133555	Thank you. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302133558	Yes, as with the previous rapporteur, I end up in the same trap here: I pressed myself in good time to be able to ask a question which the rapporteur has so partially answered now. But it comes down to the fact that Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker is very fond of the organisations that now exist in the country, including the Rural Council, an enthusiasm which I fully share and then the question is: what does it mean to the rapporteur that we actually want such an impact assessment, such a rural filter, from these rural organisations?
ParlaMint-DK_20170302133630	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302133632	As things stand today, they fill the whole mess themselves with their hearing answer, and that is what we politicians are looking at. Now they are asking for an impact assessment which may mean that they will have a counterpart who can contradict their consultation response, and if that is what they want, then we are open to it. After all, we are here to service rural areas, so if that is what rural areas want, then we would really like to continue working on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302133657	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302133659	I am so glad about that, and I can hear it as a support for the proposal. But is it not also a rather strange contradiction to set up, as if one would want to have a counterpart from the Rural Council? I don't think that's how they think it. I think they think it this way, both from the Rural Council and from others, that they have a party with which they can play. And whether or not we can share the joy of the consultation answers, such as: I also think it is important, in discussing it, to know that the same people who provide the qualified consultation answers are actually asking themselves that these considerations should be included in the legislative process. So I don't think you should think of it as a contradiction, but as things that support each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302133746	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302133747	As I have said, it is my experience that there has not been a single time I simply cannot dig it up in my memory where officials in the ministries have been ahead of the knowledge of the Rural Council. So I do not see where it is that the Rural Council is thinking that they are much smarter than we are. But if they want it, we're open to it. I can also see that this is an academic counter-play to the practical experience of the Joint Council of Rural Regions from the municipalities from which they have experience. So that way it can be a counterplay and, as the questioner says, it can also be a co-player who can come up with a different angle. So, as I said, we are open to it, if that is what they want.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302133840	Thank you to the rapporteur. And as a service to Mr. Karsten Hønge I can say that we can have the floor as long as the rapporteur has not left the platform so that you do not fall into that trap every time. The next one is sir. Thomas Danielsen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302133856	Thank you for that, President. We are discussing B 46 on impact assessment of the impact of legislative proposals on rural and peripheral development and on islands, tabled by the Socialist People's Party. I shall start by saying that I am also speaking on behalf of the Conservatives. SF proposes here to make it compulsory always to make impact assessments of legislative proposals, even if the consequences are not considered to be so significant. We think that goes too far in relation to what is necessary and appropriate for the legislative process. At the same time, however, we also see some good tactics in the resolution and we are already working on parts of the proposal. Right now, the government is working on a model to ensure a balanced way of including rural impact assessments. We want to put an increased focus on rural areas throughout the legislative process, but at the same time we want to avoid creating unnecessary rules that lead to more bureaucracy. We would like to avoid starting a chain reaction of new cross-cutting issues, which must suddenly also be included separately in the comments on the legislative proposals. But the aim must therefore be to support our government's focus on growth and development throughout Denmark. And given our wealth of rural initiatives, I believe that our focus must gradually be clear to most people. But with such a proposal it will also be included in the legislative process itself as a more structured model. Thank you to the SF for the proposal and thank you for the good intentions. We in the Left hope for a continued good dialogue on increasing the focus on rural areas in the legislative work, but it must be less rigid and bureaucratic. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302134103	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then we have reached Mr. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten, who is on his way up here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302134123	Thank you. As a starting point, Enhedslisten actually believes that it may be a very good idea for a legislative proposal to be subject to an assessment of what this has to do with our rural and peripheral areas. Of course, we must bear in mind that it will not be, what should we say, less difficult to draft a legislative proposal or less difficult to deal with a legislative proposal. It will not be less bureaucratic in reality, because then each legislative proposal will have to add comments on significant consequences for rural and peripheral areas. But we do think that this is a very good exercise for civil servants, whether they are economists or lawyers or all sorts of other education, who are, of course, mostly resident in the metropolitan area and who mostly do not really have an eye on reality west of Valby Bakke. We actually think it could be a really good exercise. I would also like to say this to Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker: forcing officials to think about rural areas, that is to say to obtain information, statements and so on. from the real experts in this area, those who live and live in the outermost regions or in our rural areas, in other words the organisations that are based out there, we think there could actually be a value in that. However, we do not think that is enough. After all, it does not matter when a legislative proposal is drawn up and drawn up, that is, before we politicians get it, who has had it in their hands. We all know, of course, when we are dealing with legislative proposals, how difficult it can be to change legislative proposals, because they are then drawn up once. That's why we think it can be really, really useful, and that's what SF is suggesting, what to say, that in the creation process, we have this angle fully thought in, just as we have other angles in mind. I would say that such an impact assessment is, of course, a very good tool, as I have explained, but it is not in itself; it is not alone, I would say. That certainly does not relieve us politicians in Christiansborg of responsibility. We should, in fact, be elected, as we are for many, in precisely the areas affected by emigration and settlement. Denmark on the Vippen has pointed out that it will be mostly for talk and spin. And it can be said that not least the Left and the Danish People's Party look up to be the best friends in the outermost regions, but it was nevertheless the parties that were the driving forces behind the major reforms of centralisation in the 00s • municipal reform, court reform, police reform, etc. We have to say that this policy has continued under both the former V government and now also the new VLAK government with 2%. savings in the field of education, which means that educational institutions in the outermost regions are in danger of being closed down. We have seen the police conciliation on the lack of resources at all on the part of the police, which has meant the abandonment of positions and stations in the outermost regions, even in pretty large cities in the outermost regions, for example. in North Jutland and on Funen; not to mention the iron grip which the government holds and which also the former S-R-SF government held municipalities and regions in, which means that the gold medal is rationalised and streamlined. This means that the mayor of Assens, Søren Steen Andersen, quotes from an article in Fyens Stiftstidende back in April 2015 that the municipalities are forced to centralise and make schools, kindergartens and nursing homes into larger units. It affects rural areas. People don't want to move out there, for example. 12 km to school. Søren Steen Andersen is absolutely right about that. We therefore also believe that tackling the centralisation and dismantling of certain rural and peripheral areas is to a large extent a municipal and regional task. One might wonder why KL and Danske Regions do not focus on it in the annual economic negotiations with the state and the government. Here you can see another example of why it is necessary to keep this focus on rural areas all the time. However, from this point of view, we would certainly like to give our support to the impact assessments in this area. We also hope that the rapporteur for the SF will confirm later that he is sticking to his proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302134641	There will be a chance of that later. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302134650	Thank you for that, President. The focus on rural areas is very positive and therefore the intentions of this resolution are also very positive. However, on 27 February, the government decided to amend its guidelines for legislative drafting so that in future it will be directly reflected in the legislative notes when there are significant consequences for rural areas. LA believes that the government's resolution meets the good intentions of the motion for a resolution, which will thus become superfluous, and therefore it makes no sense for the Liberal Alliance to support the SF's motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302134735	In doing so, we would also like to thank the rapporteur. And then it's Mrs. Pernille Schnoor from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302134743	Thank you. I'm here for my colleague, sir. Roger Matthisen, who unfortunately could not be present today. In the alternative, we believe that rural areas, outermost regions and islands are at the heart of the development of future Denmark. We must not forget everything that is outside the big cities, and we may have a tendency to do so when we make the political decisions and mostly stay in and around Denmark's capital. That is why I would like to start by thanking the SF and Mr. Karsten Hønge and others to table this motion for a resolution, which I hope Parliament will adopt. In the alternative, we certainly support it. We are very pleased with the proposal put forward, because it must be in everyone's interest, regardless of party letter and home country, that we remember the whole of Denmark when we make legislation. In the alternative, we are working on something called political laboratories, where anyone who wants to, whatever party they are a member of, can help to develop our policy. And we have had a number of political laboratories on precisely rural areas and a coherent Denmark, and in this context when we held it in 2016, the idea emerged to assess new legislation in relation to rural areas, outermost regions and islands. That is why, of course, we support the motion for a resolution tabled by the SF. An impact assessment of the impact of legislative proposals on rural development, on outermost regions and on islands sees the Alternative as a tool that can help to highlight the development that has been going on over the past many years, where the outermost regions, rural areas and islands may not have been given the same priority as they should be on Christiansborg's side. So we see the impact assessment as a good tool so that we do not forget life outside the big city when we make legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302134949	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then it is Mrs Sanne Bjørn, the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302134956	Thank you. After all, it is difficult to be opposed to rural development. Who thinks it is a bad idea for all the outermost parts of the country to have life and blossom and be given priority? Very few do. After all, it is much harder now when the resources in the welfare sector in the municipalities really have to be given a harder priority at the moment, or when we balance and redistribute the tax dollars in here. Because it costs more per person. Citizen to build a road where few drive; it costs more to run a village school with a low class quotient; and it is more expensive for the community if you get sick on Læsø and must with a medical helicopter than if you live on Østerbro and enter the Rigshospitalet with an ambulance. I can see from the reply given by the Minister of Industry to the Social Democratic Party in January and from the Minister's press release here on the back of the rural consultation the other day that it is now intended to implement the proposal, but in a slightly different and slightly more voluntary way I will choose to describe it as a "version" than what we are debating now. And that's interesting. For how nice it would have been if we had now seen in the comments what the consequences of the municipal reform, the housing tax freeze, the re-priority contribution and the training savings had had in rural and peripheral areas. In fact, I believe that both the rapporteurs for DF, Conservatives and the Liberals and also the Minister are a little short, because it is precisely in the policy pursued that priority should be shown. For example: it would probably have said that the re-prioritisation contribution means that 8.7 billion will have to be saved. kr. in 2016-2019 on upper secondary and higher education. Of this, 5.1 billion will have to be saved. kr. outside the capital region. This represents 10 000 jobs, a large proportion of which are in peripheral and rural areas. In this light, the relocation of the 3,900 state jobs by the government appears to be a purely symbolic policy. At any rate, there is a net balance which does not belong when one hears that the Minister is concerned about a balanced rural policy. The proposal, submitted by the SF, results in impact assessments of the impact of legislative proposals on rural areas and outermost regions, as well as an explanation of this in the comments. And that means that in the future we will have a stronger basis for decision-making. Of course, there will always be this discussion of the subjective and priority of resources, so that one can choose to overlook the impact calculation, even if it shows a negative impact on rural areas. But I am a little curious about how to differentiate the whole country, because it may well be that a proposal that falls into good soil in Ringkøbing will fall into less good soil in Maribo. So I hope the rapporteur for the SF can answer that. The Radical Left is always ready to prioritise resources for rural areas, even when it becomes more expensive, and especially where it makes good sense. I am curious whether the proposal will have the desired intention, but we are in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302135302	Thank you. There is one brief comment. It's from sir. Thomas Danielsen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302135308	Thank you. I almost couldn't help but press on to that speech from the Radical Left. Now we know that the Radicals can turn both to one side and to the other side, and maybe sometimes have a bit of difficulty in finding out which leg they have to stand on. But it was unbelievable to hear that speech, even for rural areas, from a party that has sat in government and not put forward a single rural policy bill throughout the last period, while we hear that priority is being given to rural areas and that the current government is throwing them down. So, no offense: there have been over 120 specific rural initiatives, the relocation of state jobs. Sir. Morten Østergaard centralized as tax minister several tax departments. We've moved them out again. I mean, I just don't understand what this is all about. But what I really want to ask is: all of a sudden the Radicals are disgraced about this motion for a resolution. However, the motion for a resolution is, of course, a re-submission in which the last vote against was taken. Now the proposal is disgraced. What has happened in the meantime?
ParlaMint-DK_20170302135407	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302135408	If the rapporteur understood that I was ashamed, I do not think that is quite correct. We are in favour of the intention of this proposal and would very much like to look at it. What I object to in the proposal, and which I would very much like us to discuss in the further process, is that one thing is to have an impact on what each proposal means for the outermost regions, and another is what you choose to decide politically. When the rapporteur is so concerned about the glories and gifts of his own party's government to rural areas, I can say that, in the field of education, I believe that people are actually sitting in rural areas at the moment and are really worried. After all, the savings in training mean that many educational establishments are closing down. It may well be that a great many initiatives are being taken, and we are still very much in favour of this, no matter which edge of the Parliamentary Chamber it comes from. But we just have to say that the policy pursued, and particularly in the field of education, which means that very many people do not receive youth education or receive higher education, is of course very important for how an area lifts itself or the opposite.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302135520	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302135521	Well, it never stops. In other words, it was the previous government that set down training institutions in rural areas. The current government has given priority to rural education institutions. So I simply do not understand where the rapporteur is going. What is clear is that we have come up with a large number of initiatives: the relocation of state jobs, broadband pools and everything else that the Radicals have always worked against. Let's just take a look at that. But the rapporteur now believes, in relation to what we are discussing today, that we should not support the proposal anyway, or at least we did not congratulate it, but we thought it was good intentions. I heard the rapporteur clearly say that this resolution is supported. Can the rapporteur not simply inform the House: do we support the motion for a resolution tabled by the SF, or do we not support the motion for a resolution tabled by the SF?
ParlaMint-DK_20170302135615	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302135616	So, quite briefly, we are awaiting our resolution but are very sympathetic to the proposal. As I said in my speech, we would like answers from the rapporteur for the S on how to ensure differentiation. Because if you generalise these impact assessments, they do not help anything, and they do not really provide a good basis for decision-making. But I think it is really positive that you want to have an analysis of the effects it has. Any current government or any majority in the Folketing can decide otherwise, even if the impact assessment shows that it benefits rural areas. And that is precisely the crux of the matter; that is what we are doing in practice. And we cannot disagree that the savings in training have cost a great many places in the outermost regions. It's a fact.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302135706	There's one more questioner. It's Mrs. Jane Heitmann, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302135710	Thank you for that, and thank you for the rapporteur's mention of education. During the last parliamentary term, the radical minister, Sofie Carsten Nielsen, was out with a changed dimensioning model. Would the rapporteur not just explain to us here in Parliament how it helped education in Denmark, in other words outside the Copenhagen area?
ParlaMint-DK_20170302135729	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302135730	I am not saying that there are no things and elements that we have implemented that have had the opposite effect. After all, it is only when you put forward a legislative proposal that has some intentions, and when it is translated into reality, you have to see how it then works. And the dimensioning, the savings in the area, you might call it that, because that is what I would like to see discussed to a greater extent. This is going to be a priority of resources. If we are not willing to set up the tax • what we are not, we want to redistribute it • we need to use the resources we have, and we just think it is wrong to make a saving on education. That is why we believe that this consequence of the savings in education is extremely great.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302135814	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302135816	In fact, I find it rather difficult to find a head and a tail in what the rapporteur thinks, because I understand that, on the one hand, we are not interested in savings in education and, on the other hand, I heard the rapporteur say a moment ago that the dimensioning model presented by Sofie Carsten Nielsen, a former minister, was a saving. It's in the field of education. So I have a little difficulty finding my head and tail in what the rapporteur actually thinks. I heard the rapporteur say that the Radical Left is always ready to give priority to rural resources. Will the rapporteur not tell us here how much resources were allocated to rural areas when you were sitting with the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20170302135854	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302135856	I think that is a figure that I should not be wise in, because I simply do not have it at the moment, but I would be happy to discuss it. I also said in my rapporteur's speech that we are ready to make a priority where that makes sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302135910	In this way, we would like to thank the rapporteur. Then we have reached the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr President. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302135926	Thank you to the Minister and to all the rapporteurs who have dealt with the SF proposal. It is clear that we think this proposal is almost brilliant. But we are also very responsive to the fact that you can have different angles and things and things you think should be a little different. So, as a starting point, for the SF, it is more important that we take some steps in the right direction than that our resolution should be adopted as it stands. I am very pleased with the almost consistently positive feedback that came from both the Minister and the rapporteurs. The reason for this is, of course, that we need a Denmark that is better connected. Too many people today feel hooked up by developments, which are particularly moving fast in the largest cities. But all parts of the country have a right to be seen and heard, and that is why, in the current legislation on lawmaking, we have built into it, that account should be taken of the consequences in that country. That was among other things. on the basis that SF received replies back in May 2015 from the then Minister for Urban, Housing and Rural Affairs, where SF had asked the Minister how it was then handled in the individual ministries. And it's a sad reading I'm having here. I can only take the Ministry of Employment, which chooses to reply: the Ministry of Employment has not drawn up legislative proposals that have only regional consequences or only have implications for the outermost regions, as the Ministry's legislation as a rule concerns the whole country. I guess we figured that one out, didn't we? It says a little about the fact that the current provisions do not take this sufficiently seriously. It is simply said that it does not actually concern the Ministry of Employment, despite the structure within the job centres or all the intiatives that are being set in motion in order to bring people far away from the labour market closer. The Ministry simply does not believe that there have been any examples for a 5-year period. So this clearly shows that we need to adopt new guidelines. On the whole, I think that rural policy has gone a long way towards the melody of the dresser and back again. Some initiatives support development, others take the air out of rural areas. SF is such a generally positive attitude towards the relocation of state jobs, because it may actually be a good idea when it plays with local industries and local opportunities. But if, at the same time, public jobs are eliminated through cuts and centralisations in the areas of e.g.: the education area, yes, then it will be a little bit back to the dresser and back again. It is against this background that the SF proposes that legislation be subjected to a critical assessment in relation to the effects on rural areas. Indeed, we must all, both politicians and civil servants, be forced from the start of a legislative process to think about the consequences for rural areas and the islands. SF has proposed this before, no later than two years ago. Without going further into the infight between the Radical Left and the Left, where I could understand that the Radical Left had to be taunted in particular so as to be positive about the SF's proposals today, I cannot help but point out that the Left, when it was dealt with here two years ago, and I have just read the speech by the Left rapporteur today, was not only negative, but rather scoffing at the proposal made by the SF at the time. So, apparently, something happens in several parties. It should lead me to say that it is always nice to see your children grow up, become strong and make new friends. I think that is what has happened here, and we can only be happy about that. How we are to end this case in concrete and precise terms is not the decisive factor for the SF. I hear the government is coming to meet us at the intent of it. So I think it should be up to the next reading whether we cannot jointly find a model with which we will nevertheless achieve the same results without it being precisely the SF's motion for a resolution. But it has to wait for government action. However, as a starting point, we are in favour of looking at the government's extended hand more than holding onto an assessment which, by the way, we think is the best, because then we are sure that all legislative proposals will come through this filter. But if that is what it takes for us to take joint steps in the right direction, then the SF is in on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302140428	Thank you. Mr. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten, ask a few questions about. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302140434	Yes, I do, because that's exactly the last part of Mr. Simpson. Karsten Hønge's rapporteur's speech, which is about whether this should be compulsory or not compulsory. Sir. Karsten Hønge is reading an assessment from among others. The Ministry of Employment, which clearly says that nice recommendations etc. etc. And hopes don't seem to do that. Therefore, it is a little interesting for us in Enhedslisten whether SF intends to stick to the fact that this has to be mandatory in order to force the process through.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302140516	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302140519	There is no doubt that we think it should be compulsory, that is why we have written what we now have. But then something has happened in the meantime: the fact that at the beginning of the week we are seeing the government actually raise its hand. Today, too, through the Minister's speech, we are showing that we are willing to move in this direction. And if, for example, we incorporate that after two years we have to look at the practice that has then been, so that we do not end up in this sad reading that I have here from 2015, then I really think it is more important than SF sticking to exactly how we started formulating the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302140555	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302140558	Isn't the SF in this situation afraid that two more years will pass, and then we have an evaluation that says the same thing, that in two years' time we will be in the same situation and that, if I may say so, we will suffer a loss of pace? But Mr. Karsten Hønge can go on the platform and read again from a number of ministries that we have not taken this very seriously between the lines.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302140619	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302140622	Yeah, well, I'm gonna have to give mr. Henning Hyllested is right that this is a risk. But that's why I think it should be up to the government to deal with it. What are you going to write? How do you plan to deal with this? In any case, I think I would rather, if I may say so, seize the hand that the government is reaching out than expect it to fail in advance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302140642	Thank you. There's one more questioner, and that's Mr. Knox. Thomas Danielsen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302140647	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's attention in his speech. The rapporteur points out that the Left helped to create a slightly more tense atmosphere at the last reading of the resolution and that we should take it out on the Radical Left too today. The only reason I just had a few questions for the Radicals was, I think, that the government that delivered the goods in this area was beaten up a bit more than enough and perhaps just decorated itself with borrowed feathers. In relation to the fear of Enhedslisten, mentioned by Henning Hyllested, it is quite justified, I think, in terms of whether you are now coming up with the right line with such a rural filter. But does the rapporteur not agree that it is not necessarily necessary to wait two years? One could, for example: have discussions over a cup of coffee for a meeting if you do not think that you really hit the ball after a few months? Finally, I also assume that the rapporteur will be prepared to go so far as to call the Minister for a conciliation if it is simply thought that he is hitting right next to the ball in these impact assessments? In the end, it is a ministerial meeting to ensure that the ball is hit here, with the help of the opposition.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302140805	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302140808	In fact, I would just like to thank you for the good suggestions on how to ensure that the Minister keeps his mouth shut.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302140818	There are no further comments to the authors of the motion, and so we thank Mr Seligman. Karsten Hønge. I propose that the bill be referred to the Rural and Islands Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302140837	The negotiations have been opened, and the first is Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302140909	Thank you. It is no surprise that the Social Democrats want a strong and robust public health service, and then we must always ensure that we set up the right framework for it. The bill here today is about the Health Act... health information and health data. We are constantly bringing these together about patients and all the activities taking place in our healthcare system, and we are doing so in our electronic IT systems. It is good for patients, it is good for future patients, but we must also constantly deal with how best to ensure patient safety and to strengthen our health services in the future. There are three elements to the amendment of the Health Act. First of all, it is a question of how to obtain and pass on health information relating to quality work, which is going on and is going on in the health care system. The bill then deals with how to obtain and pass on health information about the deceased for use by the police and the Board of Patient Safety assessment of whether or not to perform coronerial examinations and autopsy. And the third and final element of the draft law concerns how to simplify the procedure in situations where primary health care, i.e. municipal dental care and health care, must have parental consent in relation to the treatment of children under 15 years of age. In terms of obtaining and passing on health and health information, it is the case today that we are allowed to obtain and disclose information when it comes to patient treatment and in relation to the treatment of other patients, but there is no possibility of obtaining health information for other purposes, and what this bill focuses on is quality development and quality assurance in the healthcare system, our treatment regimes and in other areas where we need to keep a close eye on how things are going. What this is all about is ensuring that Danish Regions and municipalities, but also those who practice, i.e. the health professionals in our health care, can continuously develop and quality assurance. And that is why the Social Democrats think that this element of the bill is good, because we need to learn all the time. We need to learn from how to do things today and look at what could have been better done. It is a duty that we have to patients and to our society. There are, in fact, some elements in our legislation today that mean that there is no correlation with the demands of central health authorities, for example on how to follow waiting times and treatment times. There is a need for more information, and this allows the draft law to do so. A subject that we as health politicians discuss very much and so do patient organisations and professional organisations are also accidental incidents, i.e. actual mistakes that are being made in our healthcare system. There must be an opportunity to obtain information from patients so that the reported errors and adverse events can be analysed. This is all to improve patient safety and the quality of our healthcare system. We have a very tight personal data law in Denmark, and we must protect and take care of personal data, and it is good from the point of view of the Social Democratic Party that the amendment of the law here is leading to escape with the very tight legislation we have. I think it is important to look at the consultation answers, where, for example, Danske Patients, who are the umbrella organisation for patients' organisations and associations in Denmark, say this: "We are positive about the intention to establish clear and unambiguous legal bases that enable us to meet the need for quality work, for the benefit of patients' quality and safety of treatment. Danske Patienter's clear view is that recording and using personal data is an invaluable tool for the Danish healthcare system. The next element included in the bill here is the coroner's medical examination and autopsy. Here we have made it clear that the health care professionals who work in this field may, for example, also be the chapel assistants in the future, if the police or the Patient Safety Agency address in the context of uncertainty about a person's death, to provide the information requested. It is for the sake of the citizens and the relatives. The last element, and I shall be very brief, because the time has passed, is that in the case of parents who have children under the age of 15, a more flexible arrangement must now be made which allows you to give your consent to the treatments taking place in municipal dental care and health care. This stems from the fact that we have had an experimental arrangement with some free municipalities who have tried this and it has proved to be working very well. I will conclude by saying that I think that the draft law reflects the consultation responses well and that a balancing of the incoming consultation responses has been ensured. It is possible that the Socialists will be asking a number of questions towards the third reading, but we express our immediate support for the legislative proposal as it stands here. However, we would like to see the work of the committee also looked at whether some of the elements of these legislative changes should be evaluated so that in future we can follow the intentions of the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302141517	There is one brief comment from Mrs Liselott Blixt, Dansk Folkeparti, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302141527	Thank you. I've been pushing a long time ago. Sometimes there are some technical problems. It's March 2nd today. Just one month ago, all parties agreed on seven principles of health data together with the Minister for Health. We were very pleased and proud of this because we thought that it was precisely the trust and protection of people's personal data that had to be ensured, while at the same time knowing that more and more data are being shared. I would like to know whether the health rapporteur thinks that this draft law lays down the seven principles on which we agreed at the time one month ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302141604	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302141605	Thank you for the question. I didn't try to escape the platform, but I hadn't heard there was a question. I would very much like to reply to Mrs Liselott Blixt. That is precisely why, in conclusion, I said in my rapporteur's speech that there may be a need to ask some questions. That is to clarify, for example, what Mrs Liselott Blixt is asking here. On the part of the Social Democrats, the handling of health data is absolutely crucial. In the same way as the Danish People's Party, I am incredibly pleased that all parties were united in a framework agreement. But it is also completely new, and that is why it is quite right to let the Minister deal with it in the third reading. I think that Danske Patients' attitude and what I read as a quote are a good indication that Danske Patients would like their health data to play a positive role in improving their own treatment, future patients' treatment and health care as a whole. However, as I also said in my rapporteur's speech, safety, handling must be not only good, but very, very good.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302141715	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302141718	The rapporteur refers to safety, and that is precisely what we are questioning. It's not like it's a ca. One month ago on 9 February an article came in which there was criticism from the Danish Data Protection Agency that hacked down on researchers. It is Denmark's Statistics, Aarhus University, Denmark's National Biobank, the Danish Cancer Society etc. that we have faith in. What does the health rapporteur think about this when we say here that even more data are coming out? We have said that we wanted to ensure this, and here one month ago we have a great deal of criticism that those we thought would treat the health data correctly do not.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302141758	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302141801	I pointed out in my rapporteur's speech that we in Denmark have very strict data legislation at all, and I pay that price. We have to hold on to that. We must not make legislation that goes against strict legislation, and that is exactly what I do not feel it does. But this is where we can have some questions that the Minister for Health must look at towards third reading. After all, I think that the thorough work we have done in the rapporteur's circle in order to find principles for the management of health data in Denmark in the future is exactly an expression of what the rapporteur is saying here, so that there is nothing more important than safety about this. And, of course, as a nation, we must stand together to protect it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302141846	Thank you. The rapporteur can then be given time off. Flemming Møller Mortensen Is the President sure?). Absolutely. The next in line is Mrs Liselott Blixt, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302141900	Trust in health care is the most important thing for the Danish People's Party. Trust in the doctor by whom you are treated; trust that you ensure that the information that the doctor receives cannot be misused or that anyone other than the necessary staff can see your patient information; trust that makes you not afraid to tell the truth about how you feel and about the reason for it so that you can get the right treatment. That is the most important thing for us. This proposal contains a number of points which we would like to see clarified further. It is proposed to establish the legal framework for the use of patient information for the ongoing quality development and quality assurance of health care. Here we want it to be anonymised or the patient's consent obtained. The proposal should also ensure that the police and the Patient Safety Agency can obtain information. But here we want to know what is preventing it today and how we ensure that the confidentiality between the individual and the doctor is not prejudiced. A month ago, as I said earlier, we agreed on seven principles. Our role here is to ensure that there is openness and transparency for all. Citizens and patients must be better informed about the use of their health data, including the possibility to refrain from using their health information and to minimise the use of personal data. How do we make sure of this proposal? The proposal proposes that health professionals should be able to pass on patient information without the consent of the patient to doctors in training to specialists and to students as part of their education. We believe that this should be done with the patient's consent. And it cannot be so difficult to secure a patient's consent, which we have discussed many times in the last few years under one, two three, four, perhaps five health ministers. We, like the Ethical Council and the Medical Association, believe that metaconsciousness should be introduced. A metaconsciousness means that you decide whether you want to give a broad commitment or want to be asked in relation to the individual cases that have to continue regardless of whether it concerns research or the processing of your health data. We want to be able to ensure anonymisation or pseudonymisation, encryption, what we now call it, of the data, but in the consultation answers the regions say that they are unable to do so. As the Ethics Council writes in their hearing answer, the proposed access to data for quality assurance without consent is a very broad criterion and management's permission is not sufficient to protect the patient. In relation to information to the patient about the possibility of refusing to obtain the information, I would like to know how we can make it safe. How do you inform the patient? Is it enough to write on health.dk that one has the right to waive the use of one's health data? I do not know very many people who are being met by health professionals today who are being told that they have the right to waive the fact that their information is being passed on. How is it ensured if it is an oral undertaking? It will then be words against words if the doctor says that the patient has given an oral undertaking to pass on the information, and the patient says: No, I have not. That is why we believe that this should be a written undertaking. The Ministry writes that the patient must contact the health care professional who is responsible for the information which the patient cannot obtain. I would also like to know how it should be understood once you have come home and say: Oh, they should not be passed on. Then you have to get a doctor, and today it's really hard to get a doctor when you need them if you have a problem. What would it be like to get hold of the person you now need to get hold of when you want to tell them that you don't want your information passed on? I think it sounds very difficult, and I want to know how to secure this. One thing is that you only have to approach a health care professional, but if you now fail several different things and have received different treatments in different parts of the health service we have many complex patients... do you have to contact different health professionals, so contact even more? So there are some patients who don't have the resources to do this. We talk about this on a regular basis, namely that we have inequalities in health. There are people with resources who can get information and so on, while others have to let go. Several consultation responses concern authorised health professionals and healthcare professionals such as pharmacists and chemists, who are unfortunately not authorised. How do we secure their work? Is that supposed to be passed on by another person? The last thing I want to say is that when we try to open it up to some people, there is one place where I would like to make it a little more open, and that is when doctors have to fill out a death certificate today. Then they cannot go into the FMK and see the medicine, although on page 2 of the death certificate registration they actually have to write medication consumption. But they can't do that today. So I'd like to help ease that up a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302142425	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Mrs. Jane Heitmann, Left, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302142433	The bill contains several points which, with the coarse brush, can be embraced under three main areas, each of which improves the Danish health system and makes processes more flexible for health professionals, patients and relatives alike. Firstly, we would like clear rules on the collection and transmission of information from health records for quality work and quality assurance purposes, a starting point which well escapes with the seven principles of health data that all parties in the Danish Parliament support. Secondly, more simple rules are proposed for the transmission of information to a decision on coroner's medical examination or coroner's medical examination. Thirdly, simplified parental consent procedures are proposed for the treatment of children. For us in the Left, treatment of high quality in the Danish healthcare system is a cornerstone, and that is crucial for us. We all have a medical record that contains confidential information about each of us. We need to protect confidentiality, but we also need to use the knowledge generated when information from several medical records about treatment courses and contact with health care is gathered as pieces in a puzzle. The much information can help us to strengthen both quality but also the absolutely necessary learning that we must take of the processes where processing, workflows or process did not go as planned. Because that's gonna benefit all of us. But it is a delicate balance, for who should have access to our health information, with what goals and when? That is what the many opposing hearing answers show. There are consultation responses which indicate that access should be given to a wider audience than the draft law suggests, and there are consultation responses which point to the fact that the circle should be narrower and therefore only be persons with an authorisation. I understand both points of view and the arguments behind them, and I believe in fact that the draft law has struck a fine balance so that we do not compromise the confidentiality of patients with health care, while ensuring that our health services can develop positively and build on the information and knowledge contained in the medical records. Our healthcare system is constantly changing, and electronic health records make it possible, for example. to identify challenges around waiting times or treatment times, rehousing or the effects of specific treatments. For us in the Left, it is an essential factor that when information is obtained for the purposes of quality assurance and development, the aim must be of major importance for society, and management at the place of treatment must allow information to be obtained on the basis of established criteria. We are restricting bureaucracy because we are now focusing on setting up a system of catch-up rules rather than rules on disclosure, and that is a step in the right direction. It is also when the bill here provides better access for both the police and the Patient Safety Agency to have access to health information. In concrete terms, this means that in future an authorised health professional is obliged to provide information on the health conditions of a deceased patient on request. This can be of great importance to the bereaved, who are often left with both grief and unresolved questions when an unexpected death occurs. Health information may be essential for the assessment of whether a coroner's medical examination or a coroner's medical examination should be carried out. For the Left, it is crucial that we constantly focus on making health care more flexible. It makes sense for patients when bureaucratic models are phased out and the last part of the bill is a good example of making health care both more flexible and less bureaucratic. Informed consent is a cornerstone of treatment, no doubt about it. With the background of a successful free municipality attempt focusing on core services, we are now opening up that parents can give a general consent to minor treatments, for example. be flouring or cleaning of the teeth. And learning from the free community experiment is that both children and parents and health professionals have experienced a relief of workflows and that they have saved time. Therefore, it makes sense that we are now relaxing the rules for both municipal dental care and healthcare. It's win-win. On the left side, we can back the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302142858	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Stine Brix. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302142909	Thank you. As my good colleague has already explained, it is a three-part bill and I will make some comments on them and take one at a time. The first part on extending access to health information for example. quality work, etc. We cannot support the Enhedslisten. It is, of course, deeply confidential information that patients share with their doctor, their nurse and others, they meet in the health service, about their health, but also private information, such as. can be about their sexuality, their alcohol consumption, the use of other drugs, information that can be highly sensitive. Therefore, it is our view that we should be extremely reluctant about when access is granted, for what purposes access is granted and who has access to such health information. It is a break in principle when you give direct access to patient records for purposes other than treatment. I think we should take note of that. And secondly, it should also be noted that it is, of course, an access granted without having to give your consent as a patient, but it is basically something else when you give your consent as a patient. So our position is that it's too far-reaching access it's too broad, here it's defined as all authorized healthcare professionals who can access, in principle, to this deeply confidential information and that there's too little opportunity for the patient to manage himself who has access to the data. It is even the case that when it comes to the purpose of accreditation, it cannot be denied as a patient. We don't think that's good enough either. So our position is that we should introduce a rule of consent, preferably here via the model of meta-consciousness that the Ethnic Council has been aware of, i.e. the fact that a generalised consent can be given if one so wishes. However, it is absolutely crucial that we anchor the control of the data of the patient himself, so we cannot support that part of the bill. The second part of the bill is about a duty imposed on health professionals to pass on health information to the police and the Patient Safety Agency in connection with deaths. This is also a very fundamental matter. Today it is the case that a health professional has to make an assessment, and this bill makes it quite clear that the information must be provided automatically. And it is time to touch on the confidentiality of health professionals, and that is also why we see that both the Medical Association and the Danish Nursing Council express a strong concern about this part of the bill in the consultation responses. It is also a case that has a history, not exactly the same case, but yet it has a history back to 2014, and then, I can read out, it was agreed that a guide should be drawn up that might clarify some of the interpretation issues that might be around the current legislation. And when I read the draft law with comments, I am left with a question as to why the strategy that was put then has not been pursued. It doesn't say anything about that anywhere. So, you couldn't agree at all or you couldn't solve the problem that way, or why? In any case, I do not think I have any answers as to why it has not been attempted to clarify whether the current legislation does not provide the possibility of obtaining the information needed to assess whether a coroner's examination or an autopsy should be carried out. The last part of the bill, which concerns children when they are to receive less treatment at school tooth care or healthcare provider, is whether their parents can give prior consent, and we think that is quite fine. I think it is important for us to remember that children are entitled to both information and involvement corresponding to their age, and they have the right to do so in advance, and we must of course also bear this in mind in this context, so that they are involved and informed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302143352	Thanks to Stine Brix. There are no brief comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs May-Britt Kattrup, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302143405	Thank you. The use of health data is a prerequisite for developing vital medicines, and thus it is essential for our continued quality of life and survival. It is therefore very important for all of us to have sufficient access to health data. On the other hand, it is also alpha and omega that health data cannot be misused or put into the wrong hands. It is extremely important that we can trust that our health data is only used for the intended purposes and that it is kept with the security and confidentiality that we should all be able to expect. It is a question of citizens' rights to decide for themselves on their own data, and with the unfortunate cases of breaches of health data, I have been very concerned that this bill meets the criteria for adequate safety for citizens, both alive and dead. I have therefore put many questions to the Minister and I have received full and detailed answers which have convinced me that this bill takes account of both sides of the matter and has found a good balance. The third part of the bill deals with simplified procedures for parental consent to the treatment of their children in the case of minor treatments. And simplification of procedures and rules is always very welcome in the Liberal Alliance, so overall we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302143538	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are also no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302143547	Thank you. The bill deals with 1) how patient records can be used for quality assurance of health care; 2) clear rules for obtaining health information on a deceased patient in the context of autopsy; 3) to relax the procedure for consent to the treatment of children under 15 years of age in dental care and health care. It is of course important that we, as citizens and patients, are confident that our health information is properly and confidential. I think we can all agree on that. But first of all, there is a little praise to the Minister for Health for translating a free municipality experiment into permanent rules in relation to the part concerning children. In the alternative, we are pleased with experiments, and especially when legislative proposals are based on them. We are generally positive about the intentions of the draft law. Information from patient processes is a prerequisite for the quality of the Danish healthcare system. Against this background, we support the framework set by L 132, but we are, of course, open to listening to any problems that might arise in the work of the committee and that we have not been aware of.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302143718	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302143728	Thank you. When you get sick, you need the best treatment. After all, it is about medicine, equipment and education, but it is also about learning to use new technologies and learning new ways of doing things. It is about both learning from what has gone well, but also learning from the mistakes that have been made along the way, and therefore quality development is so important. Some things you can learn in a course, but there are also things that miss along the way, from sitting on the school bench and to using it, which is why the most effective way to learn new things is often to start from practice and from what you have worked with. Therefore, it is so important that there is an opportunity to use health data to become smarter so that you can do better. That is what this draft law first of all states, and we support it in the Radical Left. That's one leg. The second leg of the discussion on health data is this with data protection. Many of the discussions that we have had in the past and that we have had again today are, after all, about how we look after people's information. And part of the problem is that we still have so many different IT systems, which means that we don't have privacy by design, that is, the fact that the information is already pseudonymised from the outset. I believe that some of what can actually gather us in here is what we have also agreed in our principles, namely that we need to look at our different systems and thus also map out what it takes to actually get privacy by design, so it will always be the case that you cannot see who people are unless it is relevant to their treatment. I have raised two points earlier with the Minister for Health, which I will repeat today, because the answers to the hearings indicate that there is still a little left to be desired. One is this with who's supposed to get access. Here, in the Radical Left, we think it makes more sense to define it by function rather than by profession, in the sense that what is important is that it is the people who have to be allowed to have access to quality, and that it is the function that is important, rather than the professional one belongs to. It is because it may just as well be some who know IT that are necessary in that process. That's one part. The second part is about passing on information to the police, and here too we in the Radical Left have a great deal of understanding to see the matter from the relatives. But I don't feel entirely convinced anyway. If we now tried to lock the parties in a room and told them not to come out until they had agreed on a solution, could they not find a solution in which doctors and nurses could see themselves? Because I actually think it's very unfortunate they're worried about the model that's been found. So the Radical Left supports the bill, and then we look forward very much to taking the next step, so that we can hopefully, if not for too long, actually also succeed in getting privacy by design, because it is so crucial that the information cannot show back to who you are. No one needs to know that unless it is part of one's own treatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302144133	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen as rapporteur for the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302144141	SF has great sympathy with the objectives of providing better and clearer legal basis for the use of patient information for the ongoing quality development and quality assurance of health care, also in relation to more clear and simple rules for obtaining and transmitting health information about the deceased, when assessing, for example, whether to initiate judicial review. At the same time, we believe that in a society such as the Danish one there should be very clear rules and respect for privacy. It is not all the information that we think it is equally nice to share with third parties even if they are officials who are part of the health service and are therefore typically covered by the general obligation of professional secrecy. That is why the SF will have clarified a number of questions in the next committee and in the light of the consultations. This is among other things. the question of whether the personal data can be accessed by the public is too wide, which includes: The Danish Society for General Medicine points out that it should be limited to employees with authorisation. It is also a question of whether foreign companies and pharmaceutical companies can obtain information and in which cases the consent of patients and relatives must be obtained. For example: do the same rules apply in patient treatment and in relation to avoiding accidental incidents? There is also the question of quality assurance and whether the proposal should apply only to hospitals or also to practitioners and how we protect the information supplied to third parties in relation to quality assurance and quality development. There is also the question of whether the logging rules are adequate and the more precise rules for the transmission of health information in the context of judicial review decisions. Here, for example, the Danish Nursing Council and the Medical Association believe that the current rules are applicable. In addition, there is the question of liability on the part of health professionals in connection with the transmission of information. In conclusion, the SF sympathises with the Ethical Council's demand that written consent be given as a starting point before children are treated in health care and municipal dental care. On the other hand, we must also recognise that we need to work with a relaxed consent in certain acute situations or when special attention is given to the best interests of the child. Finally, we also think that there is a need to examine the possibility of using a unique ID or similar to replace personal data, and in this way can nevertheless develop and extend the access of researchers and others to health data. So, as I said, the SF is in favour of the draft law, but we also have a number of reservations which we look forward to clarifying and clarifying in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302144435	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302144442	The draft law brings together a number of initiatives under the heading "Better use of health information for quality work and forensic examination and autopsy, and in particular for consent in the treatment of children and young people." ▪ First of all, it is important that we can continuously ensure and promote the quality of hospital care for the benefit of our patients. In order to be able to do so, it is essential that information from health records can be included in the work on quality development. It is therefore important that we ensure a clear legal framework for the ongoing quality development and quality assurance of health care, as proposed here in the draft law. At the same time, it is important that patients can be sure of the confidentiality they are entitled to when they meet the health care system. It is a delicate balance between the desire to develop quality and quality assurance of our healthcare systems, and the desire that our patients can at the same time be sure of confidentiality about their personal data. The second part of the bill concerns the transmission of health information to the police and the Board of Patient Safety assessment of whether a coroner's medical examination or an autopsy should be initiated. Healthcare professionals may, according to applicable law, disclose information to the police and the Patient Safety Agency for the purposes of such an assessment. However, you see that health professionals may be skeptical about the transmission of information, which means that when information comes out late or does not arrive at all, it will be difficult to identify or investigate criminal offences. The draft law here lays down the obligation for health professionals to provide the necessary health information when the police and the Patient Safety Agency request it for their assessment of whether a coroner's medical examination or an autopsy should be carried out. The last part of the bill here is the result of the free municipality attempt, where the municipalities have the opportunity to test new methods to manage the task solution, among other things. by debureaucratisation and by deviations from applicable law so that they could have more time for the core task. The municipalities got among other things. permission to relax the requirements for informed consent of parents for minor intrusive dental treatments. In the experiment, parents gave a general and explicit consent which was sufficient as consent to conduct examinations, hold conversations and take X-rays and perform minor intrusive dental treatments. It turned out that this change and relaxation eased the workflows of the employees and resulted in a more flexible treatment process for the benefit of the patient. That is why the draft law is now in the process of making it permanent. However, it should be noted that the custody holder may refrain from giving or withdrawing a general and explicit consent and may also oppose the child being examined without consent if that is what he wishes. Conservatives can support the draft law's further examination by the Committee on Health and the Elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302144810	Thank you to Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel. Then it's the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302144825	Let me start by thanking all the rapporteurs for their comments on the draft law. I have to say that, in the many speeches made by the rapporteur, I was confirmed by the fact that we are dealing here with a difficult area and obviously an area which is of great concern to many people. And that is also what could be seen during the consultation phase; a great many points of view have emerged. And this must be the case, obviously, when it comes to changing the legislation on the use of patients' health data, because it is quite natural that these reactions should be there, because these are difficult balances, which this draft law is an expression of, in particular, as several of the rapporteurs have also mentioned, the balancing of the concern for patients' right to confidentiality in their health conditions with regard to the importance of being able to carry out quality work in health care, so that we can ensure that patients are treated with high quality. And it is the government's clear view that patients in the Danish healthcare system should be able to expect that their health information will be well cared for. This means, among other things, that the rules governing the use of such information must always be observed. Patients should also be able to expect treatment in the Danish healthcare system, which is both targeted, effective and of high quality, and this requires, among other things, that we use relevant data to continuously conduct quality assurance and development in the health care system. And, of course, as I have just said, this should only happen within the framework that we in the Danish Parliament are setting, and we are fortunately in agreement on that point. For that is also what is being referred to, that is, that we actually agreed a month ago on a number of principles and points of reference for the use of health data which exactly reflect these points of view. When it is clear that better use can be made of health information for the benefit of patients, it is both relevant and necessary to look at the framework for the use of such information. And it is the government's view that, with respect for the patient and the patient's claim to confidentiality, there is a room for establishing a better use of health information. This is the potential which the proposal here proposes to be able to exploit with a clear framework and a balanced balance of confidentiality considerations in order to ensure that healthcare professionals can work to improve the quality of patient care based on patients' data and that the authorities can carry out the tasks assigned to them. So I fully agree that a number of technical questions have been put which will, of course, be clarified in committee and I have no doubt that, in the light of the statements that have been made here at first reading, the draft law will be dealt with in committee and I will look forward to that work.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302145135	Thank you to the Minister for Health. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302145151	The debate is open. Sir. Simon Kollerup, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302145205	Thank you. We are today first considering a bill to abolish the temporal limitation of the cultivation right under Article 6 of the Operating Law, with the date of entry into force here on 1 July 2017. The change will mean that an owner or a user who declares an area as a semi-cultivated area or a cultivated area to the municipal council will be entitled to re-cultivate the area at any time, irrespective of whether the area has in the meantime acquired a natural quality which would have the effect that the area would be covered by Article 3 of the Nature Conservation Act without the right to re-cultivation. In practice, the proposal simply means that farmers should not apply for an extension of the cultivation right every 15 years, and with the change it is expected that the incentives for farmers to convert agricultural land to nature will be increased, as they will not have to re-enquire after 15 years. In the Social Democratic Party we see the proposal as a small step, but in the right direction, and we expect that the bill will lead to positive natural and environmental consequences by improving the natural state of the otherwise intensively cultivated agricultural country. Despite the fact that more needs to be done to significantly promote our environment and nature, we see no reason to vote against the proposal, as the amendment alone entails a relaxation of a bureaucracy for farmers, which we are in favour of. However, we do not believe that the proposal alone will solve the challenges facing nature and the environment. We believe that more needs to be done. We want a natural policy that protects nature where it is most needed. We will ensure that nature's diversity, variety and beauty are preserved and developed sustainably and for the welfare and well-being of people in Denmark, just as we did in the SR government with Nature Plan Denmark. We believe that the government has much to do to solve the challenges of nature, which are not solved with the government's own natural package. We hope that the small step in the right direction that this bill brings is a way in which we can take an even bigger step together with the government, a larger step which will hopefully lead to broad agreements in the Folketing, so that we can create a better future for our nature. So in the Social Democratic Party we can support the bill. We would ask the Minister in committee to consider an evaluation of the importance of the law for the area that can be characterised as nature. We think it is important to get a look at the matter and see the real consequences of the legislative proposal. So we will probably be launching a discussion on evaluating the development of natural areas on the basis of the bill. But we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302145516	Thank you, sir. Simon Kollerup. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Pia Adelsteen, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302145524	Thank you. Very briefly, this is the last sentence of a slightly longer story about section 3 areas so far, because I can remember at least that we have discussed it sometimes in this Chamber. As far as I am concerned, this started with a proposal that section 3 areas should not be fertilised, only if you were an organic farmer. I've never quite understood that, but I'm sure some people are smart and can explain that to me. It was actually adopted under the last government. Then we changed it when we got a new government. Now we have an agreement on the nature package we have made, and I think it is very good. For as Mr. Simon Kollerup mentioned so well, I actually believe that this is a good thing in relation to nature, in relation to the small habitats we need for our animals, and in relation to the farmer not necessarily having to sit at home and be really afraid that he is going to plow something up that he is not right at the moment. He uses it because he has a permanent right to re-cultivation, and I think that is a good thing. It is good for nature, it is good for the farmer, it is actually good for everyone, and that is of course also why we have made it in our agreement on the nature package. 'Cause we've been thinking, I think. So I'm very, very happy with this deal. I have no problem with the fact that we are setting up an evaluation system. I think that every time you do something new, it is fine to look at it after a number of years and say: is this something that does what we actually want it to do, or is it something that goes in the opposite direction, and is that a problem? It is always wise to look over your shoulder and say: Are we doing it properly? So there are no problems on the part of the Danish People's Party in relation to that. Of course, we support this. We think it's great.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302145730	There is a brief comment from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302145733	Thank you. There has been some talk that land could grow into § 3 protection. But when I read this bill, I think it looks pretty much like a myth. Does the rapporteur not agree with me on this? For it says precisely that if the farmer declares this area under § 6 of the Operating Act, it cannot grow into § 3 protection. And I think we should be very careful about the myth formation that can be about all the limitations that environmental rules impose on everything. So does the rapporteur not agree with me that this talk about agricultural land that can grow into section 3 is not correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20170302145815	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302145818	I don't know if that's correct. At any rate, I have met enough farmers in connection with a proposal from Mrs Kirsten Brosbøl when she was Minister for the Environment who came and told me that they had no idea that their fields were Section 3 areas. Whether they have grown into it or have just been defined as § 3 areas, I do not have to make myself smart, but it certainly has a problem. After all, we had a lot of discussion about whether to fertilize a section 3 area or not. And it may well be that some of it is myth, but there is also some reality in it. I have no doubt about that, because we really had people who came and stood and said: we have a problem; if you introduce this, we are not allowed to fertilize the fields we have been cultivating conventionally for a hundred years.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302145902	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302145905	But what the bill says is that if you have an area that is not protected by § 3 and you must then have some of your land mapped out and you report it under § 6 of the Operating Act, then it cannot grow into § 3. It's just, uh, it's just... it's just... it's just... it's just... it's just... it's just...
ParlaMint-DK_20170302145922	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302145925	That is quite correct, because these are not the rules we are changing. And there has always been a 15-year cultivation right. It's just not many people have known. It is also forgotten to report it, because it has not been very well informed either. So I actually think it's really, really good that we now have this bill, because now we can stand here and hopefully there are a lot of people who hear it and say that you've always had a right to say: we're growing these lands, but now we don't; so if we want to grow them again before 15 years have passed, we're actually right; we just have to report it. You have to remember that. We still have to remember that, because these are not the rules we are changing. Now it's just not 15 years, now it's a permanent, lifelong guarantee that you have to recreate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302150005	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302150014	Today we are dealing first with L 144, and in this context I can start by saying that the Left will of course vote in favour of this bill. As has also been said earlier, the proposal is the implementation of a very concrete measure in the nature package. First of all, let me say that I am actually very proud of the nature package for which the bourgeois parties reached an agreement back in spring 2016. In our nature package, 100 million will be set aside. kr. I believe that the proposal we are discussing here today will help to carry things forward. In the nature package we actually play on many different keys, we compose a really fine tune, and there are plenty of concrete measures that will help to stop the decline in biodiversity. Politically, we are also based on financial responsibility and, at the same time, we have a great deal of respect for nature. You actually weigh things up so that you take account of both the industry and nature. Furthermore, I can say that at the same time the nature package shows that we have also listened to many of the researchers who have been on the field. We publish, among other things. No less than a total of 25,000 hectares of forest for untouched forest. The bill that we are discussing right now is about changing the right to re-cultivation. Today it is the case that it is 15 years that we have rights, but now we are changing it, so that as a farmer we are allowed to have the right of cultivation permanently. I believe that this will help bring about considerably more nature, and I believe that all of us in this House can agree on that is a very good idea. At the same time, we are ensuring that farmers avoid too much extra bureaucracy and trouble compared to having to remember to report these things. I have to say that I know that very many of the farmers are actually very good naturekeepers and really want to do this. I myself have seen quite specific examples of farmers who have almost felt obliged to plough land which they would otherwise have liked to maintain as a natural habitat because of this 15-year rule. All in all, the draft law here is a very good legislative proposal, which, as I said, we are also voting in favour of in the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302150312	There is a brief comment from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302150315	Why have farmers felt obliged to plow up an area when there is no mention in the legislation in force that this is required? After the 15 years you just have to report the area again without plowing it up or anything, and then you have another 15 years, and then you can report it again. There is nowhere in the legislation in force, as far as I can see, where it says that it has to be ploughed up. I can see it in the consultation answer from Agri Nord, but I think that is a misunderstanding. Does the rapporteur not agree with me on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170302150343	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302150344	No, in fact I do not agree with Enhedslisten's rapporteur on this, because I think that sometimes here in Christiansborg we also forget to keep an eye on what reality is like outside Christiansborg's walls. And I could see that Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding was actually in Far from Castle here recently to see how things work. I understand very well that there are farmers who, simply to ensure that they can also grow on these lands in the future, have felt that it might be necessary to take the harrow and then drive through some otherwise good natural areas to secure themselves in the future too. So I think it is important that we sometimes remember to listen to the people who, frankly, have their hands in the ground every day. So I do not agree with what Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding says.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302150435	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302150437	Or perhaps we have an obligation to inform them correctly. Because when there is nothing in the current rules that says that you have to plough a natural area, but that you just have to remember every 15 years to register it, then it is a responsibility for us, for the authorities, for everyone to inform the farmers correctly that they do not have to plow it up, that they do not have to run through it with the harrow at all. They may retain their right to re-cultivation if they re-register every 15 years.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302150504	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302150505	So I still have to say that the reality is that the busy farmers may sometimes be in doubt: how far have I come? Has it been 141⁄2 years? Has it been 13 years? Or is it next year that I should remember to report this? There it may well be, as Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerd says, that we have not been able to tell you what consequences it can have for the farmer if you do not remember to report it, and there I think we can all perhaps be better at telling us what the facts really are. So we're gonna have to take that to each of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302150540	Then it's mr. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302150542	Thank you. I just want to know if the rapporteur thinks that this proposal can help us to put an end to the decline in biodiversity.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302150553	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302150554	I believe that this bill that we are debating right now can help to ensure that there are areas around the country which are now allowed to be nature for many, many years, and in this way will also contribute to the fact that, for that matter, there can be different types of species that are allowed to have peace and quiet for many years. So I think this could help to pull things in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302150620	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302150621	Yes, but one of the points I have made is that the comments on the bill state that these lands contribute significantly as habitats for the common species in particular. Explaining a new and temporary nature such as: This will only exceptionally promote the conditions of rare species in the open country. That is why I am a little sceptical about whether this actually gives the nature we need. So, you can say that the ordinary nature in the form of shelter fences and small squares we have plenty of in Denmark. What we need is large, coherent natural areas with many years on the back. Is this gonna give you that?
ParlaMint-DK_20170302150701	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302150702	I believe, as I have said, that today's draft law can contribute to the fact that there will be more nature left untouched, and then we will have to follow developments. As was also pointed out by the Socialist rapporteur, there is a desire that the law may also be evaluated here in a few years' time, and I would say that I think it is quite reasonable to follow developments in the light of the decision we are now taking.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302150729	Then it's Mrs. Karina Due.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302150732	Thank you. As a leisure farmer, I also have to bring in a kick, because it is quite right that we who have laid out our fields as a nature reserve for biodiversity are very doubtful whether we can now prove that we are cultivating the land, in the event that we should be required to prove it. And one of the reasons for this is that every two years aerial photos of all agricultural land are taken, and on them you can see that the land is not being cultivated. And even if an application has been made, we simply do not dare to trust that if we want to sell our property in ten years' time, those who want to buy the property will be able to obtain the cultivation right for the land. So it is a real risk that we are running today, and that is why I very much appreciate the action that has been taken here. So I would like to ask the rapporteur: is it not true that aerial photographs of all agricultural land help to increase the uncertainty of farmers?
ParlaMint-DK_20170302150843	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302150844	I mean, I would go so far as to say that we must of course use the tools we have nowadays, for that matter too, to use aerial photographs, but I also agree with the DF's rapporteur on these things, namely that it creates uncertainty around the farmers when there is a danger of losing some rights in terms of being able to cultivate the land. And it is clear that if there is an elderly farmer who is currently wondering whether he might sell the farm in 10, 15 or 20 years' time, then there is a risk that he will of course make sure that he is able to get as much as possible for the property. And that's why I think we're gonna get rid of that uncertainty with this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302150929	We thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302150936	Thank you. The bill we are discussing today is an expiry of the blue block nature package. Its aim is to establish a permanent right to re-cultivation for land which farmers have set aside extensively or for natural areas. It is the assumption in this draft law that if we simply remove that rule, it will cause many more farmers to lay down areas betrothed for the benefit of nature. It is also described in the comments to the draft law that this draft law makes up for a burdensome rule for agriculture. Now I do not know what that view is, as I also mentioned a little in my questions. But I have to acknowledge that if there is something that agriculture is right, really good at, then creating myths and tales about what rules, which are intended to protect our nature and our environment, impose burdens and economic distress on the farming industry. That is what we saw with the very successful campaign about the protein content of cereals carried by the agricultural lobby and parties in this house, where we heard that it was the environmental rules that caused grain grown in Denmark to become of horrible and miserable quality. That campaign was so successful that it paved the way for the agricultural package that we have been discussing over the past year. Not a word was said along the way that this problem has arisen because for years agriculture has grown up varieties which produce higher and higher yields, but which then also depend on more and more manure, because the consequence of this strategy is that protein content will fall if the amount of manure is not constantly increased. So agriculture's pursuit of higher yields and higher earnings had created the problem that the environmental rules were accused of. But the campaign succeeded, and a majority of this high point bowed to the call for a deterioration of environmental rules, and the rest of history we know. So when we hear again with this bill about burdensome rules, we know that we have to go pretty critically. I must also admit that when I read the bill and hear the debate we have had so far, it is a little unclear whether this is due to poor information about what the rules are like or to general misunderstanding of what you can do as a farmer or what it is really about. For as the rules are today, a farmer may decide not to cultivate one or more of his fields and instead extend them and thus benefit the countryside of the agricultural country. This can then be communicated to the municipality, and then for 15 years you have a right to re-cultivation. a right to again plow the soil and use the area for field cultivation. When the 15 years are running out, as far as I understand the rules, you can have another 15 years, and if you are in doubt whether you are approaching the 15 years, I assume you can call the municipality and see if you are approaching. But I can only see from the consultation answers, and we must then try to shed light on this in committee, that not everyone shares that view. I can see a response from Agri Nord, which says that as a farmer you must remember to recreate the area exactly within one year after the end of the 15 years. This means remembering to recreate the area one year after the end of the 15 years. That is obviously a view in agriculture. I just can't, when I read the bill, find evidence that the requirement is there that you should remember to plow the area up. So the question is whether the story that this is a very, very burdensome rule is really about a myth or whether everyone isn't quite sure what the rules really are and what they are about. As I also mentioned in one of my questions, there have also been several voices promoting that areas can grow into § 3 protection areas. But I also believe that Section 6 of the Operating Law prevents this. Because if you just review the area and it was not naturally protected when you reported it, you have, even if it can obtain a natural quality equivalent to § 3, still away from your cultivation right. I just have to say that from our point of view we need to get a little more light on what the problem really is with the rule we have right now, just as I also lack proof that if we remove the rule, really, a lot of farmers will start converting land into nature. So I hope we can get an answer to that when we deal with this bill in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302151446	There are some brief comments. First, it's Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302151449	I need to hear something. I understand from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding that, in relation to cultivation rights, agriculture has no problem whatsoever with section 3 areas, because they can just plow over it. If it's been less than 15 years, they can plow it up. That is not my view at all, but I understand that is the view of Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding. I would just like to know if Enhedslisten thinks it is good to remove the bureaucracy which, after all, is that every 15 years you have to remember to go up to your municipality and say that you still have a field that you do not use.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302151530	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302151531	I didn't say that if you have an area that is §3 protected, you can just plow it up if you want to. What we are talking about is that if you have an area that you cultivate and want to dispose of extensively for the benefit of nature, can you declare it and maintain your right to re-cultivation for 15 years and extend the right to re-cultivation if you declare it after 15 years even if the area should have a natural quality equivalent to § 3? That's what I'm talking about. I do not have a specific reason why it was introduced here in the first place. We know that if there are some special species, Annex IV species, that is species that are specially protected and that migrate in there, so nothing with § 3, but other rules, then these areas can be covered by protection. And that doesn't really change this bill. How is it ensured that you get out and assess it? Does that add up to the 15-year rule? These are the questions that I am left with after reading this, and I need to clarify them.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302151631	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302151632	That is also fine, but does Enhedslisten not think it would be good to have some bureaucracy removed? In other words, if it does not matter whether it is 15 years or not, and you can just extend it, as Mrs Reumert Gjerding believes, then it may not matter whether we say 15 years versus permanent. Well, then we'll just get out of having three employees to do it up in the county. That'd be great.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302151654	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302151655	We want to put an end to unnecessary bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302151659	Then it's Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302151703	I really think I would like to continue along the path that Mrs Pia Adelsteen mentioned. For the rapporteur has just confirmed that the Enhedslisten would like to get rid of unnecessary bureaucracy so that that part of the bill can vote in favour of the Enhedslisten. Where Enhedslisten is then perhaps a little in doubt, I understand that compared to some things that we would have liked to have clarified during the committee procedure, in relation to whether the draft law really helps to give more nature. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20170302151735	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302151736	Well, I think I mentioned a number of things I would like to clarify. Firstly, there is this disagreement, which appears to be in relation to the consultation answers, about what the problem really is. Does the problem exist at this time? But yes, there is also evidence that this will actually mean that farmers will then start to interpret much more nature. It may be that the parties that helped to conclude the natural package know more about it than I do, so that in those negotiations, when it was just decided to remove this rule, it knew that it would result in more nature. It may be that some documents were submitted which I have just not seen. I can't wait to see them.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302151813	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302151814	Well, let's assume that there is a handle on Enhedslisten supporting debureaucratisation, and then in the Chamber today let's start from the fact that this bill certainly does not create any less nature. So what's the problem with Enhedslisten may ultimately not be able to back this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20170302151836	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302151838	As I said, I want to be absolutely sure that this 15-year rule has no function at all, even in keeping track of some of the other things. It is also unclear to me from the legislative proposal how to monitor whether Annex IV species or species protected under the Species Conservation Regulation have been immigrated, I think it is called. How do you keep an eye on it? Do we know for sure that this 15-year rule was just something that once came up with completely unfounded?
ParlaMint-DK_20170302151907	Sir. Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302151908	Thank you. The last comment I would like to follow up is that what is the function of a 15-year cultivation right? I'm very surprised, too. In fact, I do not remember what I did on 2 March 2002 and unless Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding remembers what she did on 2 March 2002, can we not agree that a busy farmer might risk forgetting to re-register an area for re-growing, and that over 2016 there will be a right of re-growing that has disappeared and then that area can grow into § 3 protection?
ParlaMint-DK_20170302151959	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302152000	Now I think we're about to be at the core of this, and then let's discuss it. Is that all this is about? Because we're just hearing a whole lot of straw-man arguments for this. I have heard talk of an area growing into § 3 protection. When I read this bill, there's no evidence. I have heard that you have to put your plow in the ground, one year after the 15th year has expired, because otherwise you lose your right to cultivation. I can't find any evidence for that in this bill. But if it is about farmers being forgetful and thus risking something, let us discuss it. I would like to take part in this discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302152037	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302152038	I think we should certainly go further in the work of the committee and then get the answer to what this 15-year cultivation right has ever done something good for.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302152049	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302152050	We can only agree on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302152053	Then we thank the rapporteur and move on to Mr Beazley's report. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302152110	Thank you. The proposed amendment to the law on the operation of agricultural land is extremely positive. It will help to allow more farmers to leave land under cultivation for long periods of time without losing the right to dispose of their land. In fact, the draft law means that the previous 15-year cultivation right in the law is changed to a permanent cultivation right, regardless of whether the area has grown into a § 3 natural protection condition. This may sound a bit like the inverted world, as the debate has so far shown, but the very risk of an area growing into a protected state helps many landowners to refrain from leaving more or less marginal areas in the wilderness, as this may mean that they lose the right to dispose of their land. The change is an administrative simplification, which is likely to motivate more farmers to use the right to re-cultivation and leave an area to grow, so that it can develop into nature, and even without the farmer being forced to plow it up so as not to lose the right to cultivation, and without it having a negative effect on the future use of the land, or that it will return restrictions on the authorisation of livestock farming. Thus, the right to re-cultivation is expected to give more nature in the agricultural country, as farmers will have more incentive to leave land uncultivated. A permanent right of cultivation is clearly a simplification of the existing rules, as pilot owners no longer have to keep track of the end of a 15-year period, nor will there be any need for re-notification. It is also very positive that the changes take place retroactively and that land previously declared for 15 years is automatically transferred to permanent cultivation rights. Despite the very positive changes, however, there are still challenges associated with this right to cultivation. Although an area is being declared, as we have actually heard earlier today, there will still be situations in which re-growing will not be permitted anyway. It can, for example, be done. be the case in the Natura 2000 areas or if a protected plant or species of animal migrates to the area. The restriction in the law of the Council is even without compensation, which, in my view and in the view of the Liberal Alliance, is quite unreasonable. But all in all, this is something near a liberal cheek egg: more diverse nature with less bureaucracy and better protection of property. This is one of the fingerprints of the Liberal Alliance on the natural package, which is why we are of course voting in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302152431	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302152439	Thank you. Denmark needs to reverse the decline in biodiversity as soon as possible. We have committed ourselves to this in international agreements, and researchers tell us that things are really bad. In fact, there are a lot of species that are dying out, and it has not been seen so violently in many years. So we need more nature, but not any kind of nature. We do not need any more small blotches of nature here and here, which can be cancelled and plowed up again for farmers' own wishes. We need much more coherent nature, more protected nature and nature, which are allowed to develop over a long period of time. We need more of the nature that provides the basis for increasing biodiversity. But that is not the nature of this proposal. We do not need any more small semi-cultural areas that we can plough again at any time. That is why the alternative cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302152551	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302152559	Thank you very much. If the bill we have here is just a bureaucratic exercise every 15 years, then Radicals can be without it. If we are actually relaxing the protection of nature because we are no longer going through this exercise, we cannot be involved, and I do not think that is actually clear at this stage. We will therefore ask a number of questions in committee to find out whether it is the same nature protection that is with or without this rule. Can the municipalities possibly refuse a new 15-year period, what are the criteria, what are the assumptions, and how many refusals have actually been given historically and with what reasons? If we get answers to those questions, we can actually get a little more clarity about this. I know that there is the problem of our nature protection at all, that there are farmers who are afraid that there will be too much nature on their fields. One can understand that if suddenly it means that they grow into a protection that was not there before, so that it hampers their production. We have been discussing that uncertainty for many years, and we have also been talking about having a look at section 3 and perhaps getting it fixed and seeing if we can do anything. Well, that's not gonna solve this rule. Nor does it solve the big overall problem we have in the field of nature, i.e. that we have no more room for nature, that we have no more coherence. That is why it is a fairly small package of nature that has been made, but we must, of course, recognise the improvements that exist. So if I can sort out that this will lead to more nature, not less, and clarify whether there is more nature protection in it or not, then the Radical Left will take a position at the time when we have found out.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302152752	There is a brief comment from Mrs Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302152754	It's just very short. Well, I think we're hoping for more nature, but there's no guarantee. So if it is a guarantee that Mrs Ida Auken is looking for, then I think we can all say that it cannot be given. This is just a matter of moving from a 15-year right to a permanent right. It is purely bureaucratization, something radical left should be cheerfully happy about. So I just don't understand. It is clear that the proposed amendment merely extends the time frame for the right to re-cultivation and does not entail any other change. There is no nature or anything, no more or less.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302152835	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302152836	I do not know if I may at all, but I was down to ask the officials for some clarification as to whether a decision is actually taken after the 15 years or whether it is a purely bureaucratic exercise in which the extension is always granted. Because if it's the last thing, there's no reason. But there are, in fact, some cases where refusals are being made, and I just want to know what these are for some cases and what criteria they are, and what changes it then changes if you change it from 15 years of age to permanent. So it is simply a matter of finding out in the legislative process. It's quite natural and quite common. After all, we are not a party asking for guarantees, just as the Danish People's Party does, because we know that the world is a little more complicated than that, so now we just want to get more clarity, and I think Mrs Pia Adelsteen might approve of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302152923	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302152925	In any case, I can. I was just wondering about the comment because I think it is very clear from the text that all we are changing is that we move from a 15-year cultivation right to a permanent cultivation right. And then it is possible that someone will be refused. Anything else equal, I would like to know why. If you have a right of re-cultivation of 15 years and you want to re-cultivate within 10 years, why are you refused? At least something's wrong, I think. It may not be exactly the same as for Mrs Ida Auken, but I would like that to be clarified. If it is only time, then I hope that the Radical Left will also be able to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302153002	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302153003	Yes, that is what I said in my rapporteur's speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302153006	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302153008	Thank you. I would actually like to start by acknowledging what the Radical Left rapporteur is doing, namely that she looks at it with positive glasses and says that there are some things that you want to clarify during the committee procedure and that you then take a position on them. I just need to get something right. Is this what we then need to clarify in the course of the committee's proceedings solely in relation to whether the draft law here gives less substance?
ParlaMint-DK_20170302153041	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302153042	It can be difficult to clarify, as Mrs Pia Adelsteen also says, what farmers will do in the future, right? If the Minister can predict that this will actually mean that more farmers will dare to have more natural areas, I think that is a very serious argument. If it turns out that there has been a great deal of refusal because there have been some Annex IV species or some other nature on those areas that do not want to grant permission again, then we have to look at whether we actually believe that this will give more nature. It will then be a political assessment. But it is simply to clarify what it has meant. If it's just been a rubber stamp, of course it has to go away. If there has been a real assessment, which has in fact meant in a large number of cases that we have not given the right to cultivation, then we must take a position from there. It may well be that it is actually a barrier to making farmers create nature, but then we have to take it from there. We just want a little more clarity on how this rule has been applied.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302153134	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302153135	It is always important to have more clarity, and I think we can all benefit from that. But is it not true, even if Mrs Ida Auken remembers the time when Mrs Ida Auken himself was Minister, that in some places, and perhaps especially in the environmental field, legislation sometimes comes into being that almost sets its feet to actually get more nature? I'd like to confirm that. At any rate, I am thinking that this very thing can help to open up the door for farmers to relax more and say: now we can leave it as untouched nature and thus help to become even better naturekeepers.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302153216	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302153216-2	Yeah, and that's exactly to find out if it's a real assumption that that's how it's gonna go. I mean, you can stand there and say that's what's gonna happen, but I'd just like to go deeper into that argument. For our intention is that there should be more nature in Denmark. I have always believed that we could make a much larger alliance with agriculture, because they are our naturalists, and ensure that there are some incentives to create nature and a reward for it, and of course also remove bureaucracy. But we're just gonna have to go deeper in the committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302153250	Thank you to Mrs Ida Auken. We move on to Mrs. Trine Torp, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302153255	In principle, SF is positive about the bill, but if it is to have a lasting positive effect on nature and biodiversity, more needs to be done. Is a temporary natural area important in nature if it is ploughed to black soil at times? you could ask. And is there more of this temporary nature with a permanent cultivation right? you could also ask. We do not believe that it should cost the farmer anything to lay land to create nature, but the risk of immigration of Annex IV species does, of course, mean that the farmer has an incentive to plow up the land regularly to ensure that it does not happen. The alternative may be that farmers leave the temporary nature areas for a long time and then plow them up once Annex IV species have been established, and Denmark is clearly in conflict with the directive. Both situations are inappropriate. Or is it imagined that farmers leave the areas unplugged with the uncertainty that there might be Annex IV species, thereby locking the area? No, right? In this way, the proposal will maintain the table catch clause, which has been criticised by both forestry, agriculture and green organisations. If farmers do something for nature voluntarily and I actually think it is very good that there are many farmers who try to do it then catch the table if, for example, they catch the table. let the soil lie unplugged for a period and rare animal and plant species are present. Then the proposal counteracts the spread of some species, as well as species on the Danish red and yellow list, which are not protected by the EU, but which will have a plowing trip before they become striking in the landscape. We will therefore, in the course of the committee's work, drill a bit into whether there is any possibility of going a little further, whether there is any evidence of the natural benefits here, whether we can increase the motivation not to plow up, and whether it can be ensured that permanent cultivation rights do not hinder future nature recovery projects and the like, and thus measures to create more nature and biodiversity. So we are in favour of the work of the committee, but we also have a number of questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302153523	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Orla Østerby, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302153533	Thank you. The bill we are discussing here today is part of the legislative implementation of the agreement on the natural package. The aim of the nature package is to increase the incentives for farmers to set aside more land for natural areas. Here we are introducing a permanent right of cultivation. This means that the farmer should not be afraid to forget the deadline of 15 years. There has been a lot of debate about this today with the 15 years. There was talk that there is evidence to plow up the land. I would just like to say that there are farmers who have lost the right to cultivation on land that is being talked about here. Another part of this is land that grows into section 3 areas. Is the right to re-cultivation still gone? With the new law we are doing so, that there is a continuous right of cultivation on the ground. We are doing this in order to make the farmer calm. And I have a belief that this means that there are areas that are allowed to remain lying down. Then we can discuss in committee what is the reason for this harrow after the 7th, 8th or 10th year. This does not make any difference, because there are farmers who have experienced after the 15 years that they have had land involved. It is concrete municipalities that have been involved in such projects. I think we can confirm in the committee's work that this is the way it is. Conservatives support Bill L 144.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302153726	Thank you to the rapporteur. As we have now finished the rapporteur's series, it is the Minister for the Environment and Food.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302153739	Thank you for that, President. I would also like to thank the rapporteurs for their contributions to the debate. As mentioned above, the bill is part of the implementation of an agreement on a nature package from May 2016, and on the basis of the nature package's text, a simple amendment to Section 6 of the Operating Act has been proposed. The change means that, as we have heard here, the timeframe for the cultivation right under section 6 will be extended from the current 15 years to permanent. The farmer is the natural manager of his rotation areas. It must therefore be made easier and more attractive for a farmer to set aside land for a shorter or longer period of time. Among other things, it can be done. ensure by simplifying the farmer's ability to avoid the condition of the land so that it is not to be regrown. And the purpose of extending the time frame for the right to re-cultivation is precisely to make it easier for the farmer to voluntarily create nature in the areas of rotation. If the farmer has declared the area for cultivation rights, he may use it at any time, regardless of condition. However, this requires that the area declared by the farmer is a rotational area and that it is not covered by Article 3 of the Nature Conservation Act at the time of notification. In exceptional cases, the right to re-cultivation may continue to be restricted by other legislation. This is the case, for example, in the case of migratory protected species on an area declared with the right to re-cultivation and therefore the right to re-cultivation cannot be exploited. However, very few cases are known where the right to re-cultivation could not be used. It is expected that several farmers will declare areas under § 6 when the time limit is removed. At the same time, it is also intended that the agricultural industry should be spared the work of renouncing land that is falling under the current 15-year rule and that each farmer should be protected from forgetting to re-register an area and perhaps risk losing the right to re-growing. It is the municipalities that administer section 6 of the Operating Act and it is important to mention that the practice currently in force does not change. The municipalities will no longer be given more tasks and will not be entrusted with any more work by extending the right to re-cultivation. In conclusion, I look forward to a good and constructive committee procedure, in which we will of course answer questions about some of the issues addressed here in the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302154012	There are a few brief comments, first from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302154016	Thank you. As I understand it, there is now a right to re-cultivation on all existing agricultural land, unless, when they are extensively laid down, Annex IV species or species protected under the Species Conservation Regulation can be migrated. What, then, will it take in Denmark from the date of its entry into force if we want to expand the number of hectares protected by § 3? How, then, can this be done? Are there any tools we can then use or stop the expansion of the number of hectares protected by § 3, now or how can this be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20170302154053	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302154055	Thank you for the question, which I am not quite sure I understood, but now I will answer as best I can, otherwise the Enhedslisten's rapporteur will have to ask the question again in a slightly different way. So, as I understood the rapporteur, section 3 is being asked whether we can have more § 3 areas in the future. Yeah, we can do that. But what is important is that the rotational areas which are not currently § 3 areas can continue to be regrown. But there may of course be areas in this country where § 3 areas can develop. It is part of the setup that is for section 3 areas. What we are just concerned with, and it also follows from the nature package, is to get more clarity for farmers as to whether there is a reclassification of their land into section 3 areas. We are working on a model work on how to do this in practice, so that no farmer is surprised about this relationship. This also leads me to comment on what is addressed in the debate, namely that this gives farmers a sense of security that they are not, as it were, taken with their pants down in order to create nature without losing a right to cultivation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302154202	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302154204	Let me ask in a slightly different way: there is some clarity, but can existing agricultural land be transferred to section 3 under this legislation, and if so how?
ParlaMint-DK_20170302154217	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302154219	I mean, you wouldn't want to lose the right to cultivation on your land. So, in relation to whether it can grow into section 3 protection, I can say that you wouldn't want to lose your cultivation right on the basis of this work. And that is what we, together with the municipalities, are required to provide information on, so that the municipality is at least the model that we are working on to inform farmers about how and how that relationship is being clarified in the case of ordinary land areas that should not be able to grow into § 3 protection.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302154252	Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302154253	Now we have once chosen this a little strange system of section 3, from which you can grow out and out. But right now it becomes so that you can almost only grow out of § 3 and not into § 3 with this rule. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20170302154304	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302154306	Yes, the wish is that we should get active agricultural land out of rotation, but that they should no longer be classified in § 3 without the farmer discovering it and therefore losing his right to cultivation as it has been up to now. That is why we want to guarantee the right of cultivation permanently.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302154323	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302154325	Then one must also think that in the system that we now have and that one may think is inappropriate, it is a weakening of nature protection, as § 3 is now only something one can grow out of if an area suddenly jumps into forest, for example, but not something one can grow into. Well, I don't think it's a very appropriate system, but I don't really see that this rule really solves it either.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302154344	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302154345	In any case, it can be said that nature is being protected more now, because it will be possible to have nature interpreted to a greater extent, but without losing one's right to re-cultivation if something happens in 25 years' time. So I actually see it as a way of getting better nature protection with this, because more farmers will be able to actively make natural measures on their land. So I kind of see it as an improvement in our natural state. Whether you think it will be worse or better legally depends perhaps on the eyes that see, but I certainly believe that it will improve the state of nature.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302154422	Sir. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302154425	Thank you. This is just a question in relation to the intentions or purpose of the draft law, and it should of course be that farmers, as the Minister also says, have a greater interest in, or are less concerned about, the construction of natural areas because you cannot lose your right to cultivation. In this way, we also assume that there will then be larger and more natural areas. What I called for in my rapporteur's speech was whether we should jointly evaluate the development of natural areas and perhaps get the bill printed here, that we agree to make such an evaluation. I would just like to ask the Minister to comment on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302154500	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302154501	I mean, if evaluation is just a de facto status assessment, I have no problem with making such an assessment. It then depends entirely on what a reporting system should be like. Do farmers have to draw up farm maps? Who's gonna do this? Is that supposed to be from the air? Who will finance it, etc.? It is clear that it has to be balanced because we do not have any interest in creating more bureaucracy about this system. But if it was such a very, very sober, non-bureaucratic exercise to make an assessment, I do not see that there should be anything to prevent it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302154539	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302154541	I am very much in favour of sober nonbureaucratic methods of doing so, so I am quite sure you can find out. I am just thinking that it is also a little bit about our intention to vote in favour and I am also thinking of the Government's intention to put forward the bill, which should be that the farmer relaxed a little more in terms of his cultivation right and therefore dared to set aside land so that we could have more nature. So it would be a fairly quantitative count of whether we have got several hectares of nature or not. So we can look at this in the more technical way in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302154616	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302154617	I can only agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302154619	Then it's mr. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302154622	Thank you. After all, we have different levels of natural quality, for example. The habitat nature, which is the high quality and which we are trying to make into large coherent natural areas, and which is one of the things that can help us stop the decline in biodiversity, and then we have § 3 nature, which we sometimes call the small nature locally, but a permanent nature. It typically has a slightly smaller natural quality. How is the Minister going to assess the quality of the nature we are talking about in this proposal, which the Minister is guessing can come of more?
ParlaMint-DK_20170302154659	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302154701	If you now imagine that there are farmers who have low bottom areas which could actually have a high habitat value, then you could imagine that more of it would come because they did not lose their right to re-cultivation. How it is distributed across the country, it is clear that time will show, but I think that there will be a number of farmers who will say: we have some areas that have habitats in relation to natural value that we want to be uncultivated, because we want to have the pleasure of the nature created there ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302154739	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302154741	But in terms of biodiversity, is it worth not so much because the farmer can choose to say at any time: Now I want to use my land again and plow it up and farm it again? So how does this actually contribute to the great biodiversity, that is, to what we have committed ourselves to stopping the decline in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20170302154804	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302154806	Now I liked that sir. Christian Poll had the floor if in his sentence, for it might be the case that the farmer may not be for a period of time. Let us say that for 20 years there is an area, for example. promotes more insects, more rodents, more plants, which can create a richer nature, but which then also feeds other species that we had not otherwise had in that area, then it is a way of making nature richer, and then you have to see how it then develops in a longer horizon.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302154846	Then it's mr. Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302154849	Thank you. I was actually a little inspired by the debate here and, moreover, I think it has a lot to do with the fact that a farmer cannot seem to be happy to have quality nature, protected nature, § 3 nature or more valuable nature than that, and that is why I just want to get things right. Because I am not sure that is true, nor is it certain that the Minister will be able to answer it, but perhaps we can get it in writing in connection with the work of the committee. In other words, an area can still be lost, even though we are now making the cultivation right permanent, grow into §3 protection? As I said earlier, we can imagine a happy farmer who is actually happy to have got some §3 nature and, as the Minister himself mentioned just now, does not plow anything up but retains the area as nature. I suppose that area will continue to be § 3 Nature, also afterwards?
ParlaMint-DK_20170302154950	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302154952	Yes, it may end up with a classification as §3, that's right. But there will still be a right of cultivation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302155001	Then it's mr. Orla Østerby.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302155007	There have been several rapporteurs who have argued that the plowing up of the land within the 15 years is a myth that farmers are good at. I would like to hear from the Minister: are there any examples of farmers who have not reported the right to re-cultivation after the 15 years that have lost the right to cultivation on the land?
ParlaMint-DK_20170302155036	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302155038	Now I cannot mention the number that I have spoken to myself, but I think most of us who have talked to farmers around the country have learned about this. However, what the rapporteur also asks concerns a general issue. If you look back a few years, you may remember that we had something called environmentally friendly farming schemes in Denmark, MVJ schemes, where you had been promised that if you leave it passive for 5 years, you can recreate it. Then there is a change in the rules along the way, which means that there was an awful lot of controversy, and I even think that it ended up with more of the cases being dragged to the courts. This is an example of why it is that farmers fear that they are losing their right to use their land because, for example, there are sudden changes to the directive or you come up with something in this high thing. That is why it has been important for us to send out this clear signal about permanent cultivation rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302155131	The questioner? We thank the Minister. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302155149	The debate is open. Sir. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302155202	Today we are discussing the draft law amending the law on the use of manure in agriculture and on plant cover. The proposal empowers the Minister to lay down a requirement for the establishment and placement of the so-called targeted catch crops in the years 2017 and 2018. The aim of the catch crops is to reduce the nitrogen load from the food and agricultural package. The targeted post-crop scheme, after which many thousands of hectares of additional post-crop crops are to be calculated against State compensation, has so far been voluntary, but with the bill here it is now becoming a legal requirement. One of the largest Danish businessmen ever had a motto that sounds like this: no loss should befall us, which could be avoided by due care. The bright ones in the Chamber I can already see that it has of course guessed that it is A.P. We're talking about Møller. But the motto actually says a lot about this bill. Because the proposal we are discussing right now is precisely an indication that the government did not show due diligence when, in the pre-Christmas days of 2015, we negotiated the food and agriculture package. At that time, in the Social Democratic Party, we repeatedly said that the food and agriculture package did not strike the right balance between considerations of industry and respect for the environment and would therefore be on a course of conflict with EU law. It is true that the government must now withdraw to make up for the damage. The Chairman of Sustainable Agriculture, Flemming Fuglede Jørgensen, has estimated that the government's voluntary targeted cropping scheme could jeopardise up to 2,000 production sites. So it is in the agricultural industry that we hear voices that it is an intrusive proposal that changes significantly in the food and agriculture package. The proposal we are debating today is a definitive one with the so-called voluntary nature of the agricultural package. In fact, the requirements now become mandatory. This is clearly what it takes to satisfy the European Commission. Maybe the Left should have listened more to people like A.P. Møller. In fact, this would have allowed us to have shown due diligence and, in a broad conciliation, negotiated a food and agriculture package that was in balance. It had created calm and stability on the agricultural framework so that no nasty surprises had come from the government. Unfortunately, the government would not listen when we said that the package would cause problems both for the environment in Denmark and with EU law. Instead, we now have a system that is already causing problems. The country's agricultural consultants have been sent on overtime to such an extent. I've talked to some of them and some of them who represent them. They tell me how difficult a situation they're in. They must give priority to individual farmers and decide who to enter into the systems first, because the application rounds that lie in the post-crop model make it extremely difficult. And on the basis of the limited compensation that is in it, it will also be a question of the economy, who will first be entered into the systems. It is a pity that there has to be such a race in the work, and this creates a bad environment, not only in the wild and in the fields, but also between farmers and agricultural consultants. The fact is that the way in which the crop crop scheme has been put together has meant that farmers who have applied for subsidies for catch crops are not able to calculate them where there is a need. Now, on paper, there are no more support crowns for planting catch crops in areas where the effort needs have not been met. This is a bit of a cat-ache for farmers and their consultants, and it is a very good picture of what we have said before, namely that we believe that the agricultural package is a mess. My guess would be that we could have avoided this trouble if we had been listened to from the start in the Social Democratic Party. In the Social Democratic Party, we believe that a broad-based food and agricultural policy must be conducted that is in balance with the environment and in accordance with EU law. That is why we agree that there is a need to change the agricultural and food package. So much for the specific content of the bill. Secondly, and I think this is the third time that I have had to raise this issue here in the Chair, I would say that we are once again faced with a legislative proposal which translates part of the food and agriculture package, and again we are experiencing an excessively hasty timetable for the work of the Folketing with a law that is extremely important for the industry. That is something we will be addressing in committee. We believe that this is a lack of respect for the work of the Folketing, and it is unsatisfactory working conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302155722	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302155725	Thank you. Not long ago we saw the Social Democrat rapporteur quoted as saying that Danish agriculture should now be calmed down. I think that was a good report, because that is exactly what is needed, so that you can follow up the initiatives that are being put in place. We can see, I would almost say, that there is massive support from farmers for the voluntary post-crop scheme. We can follow that as the various rounds of applications are opened up so that they can be applied for. I've even seen that one of the first rounds was overwritten. Then there is some coordination work just to make it all right. It is therefore completely contrary to what the Socialist rapporteur is saying now. So I would almost say this in the sense that yesterday there was a need for calm, and today it is evident that uncertainty is to be created here from the parliamentary platform. I think that's a slinging course. I just think that's too bad. How does it compare with the fact that it is now possible to see that there is indeed evidence of very large influxes from farmers who would like to seek the voluntary scheme? This is not in harmony with what is being signalled by the Social Democrats now.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302155837	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302155838	Thank you for that and thank you for the comments and the question. I think you should be more than ordinary Leftman I almost said; I don't know how to say it differently to think it's not a slippery course you're out in with the agricultural package. An agricultural package has been adopted which is clearly contrary to EU law, which is more damaging to the environment than it must be, and now we have a model for post-crop crops which I do not even think Storm P could have drawn so complicated and complicated. It creates insecurity, it creates uncertainty, it creates frustration between farmers and their consultants, and that is not what is needed. That's why you should have done this in balance from the start. Then I'm referring to A.P. Møller and say there is nothing that should have hit us so negatively if we had thought of balancing it from the start. So I am not buying the model, and I also think that the Left is marking reality and undermining the seriousness of saying that there are little corrections and so on. I do not think that farmers see this as minor corrections. What I would like to do is for us to have a proper timetable for this together, so we in the Folketing have time to go down in this complex work, and I hope for the support of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302155948	The asker, Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302155950	In the Left, we have signaled a lot of times that we want to work together on these things. We have said this and expressed it several times. That questions are being asked about this, for example. the fact that the European Union is asking some questions about things is perfectly natural. That's what you do in a lot of other cases. What I havecelebrated a little about here is that the Social Democrats say that calm must be created, and when you have to debate things, they are trying to create insecurity. It just doesn't add up. By the way, things are well under control. In this particular case, it is said that we believe that it will be achieved through voluntary action. Of course we also have to go to the finish line. It is precisely to exercise due care and security.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302160031	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302160033	Thank you. It is quite true that in the Social Democratic Party we want to create calm and stability on the basic framework conditions that agriculture has. But frankly, if we look back on the agricultural and food policy of the last year in Denmark, I think we have to find a grimass that can fit, to call that year's agricultural cycle calm and stable. I think it has to be said that the system that has been built up here is not calm and stable. We just find out what the situation is. We are now entering into the legislative work of the committee. We would like to see a better timetable and improved respect for Parliament's work on these subjects, and we will then seek support from among others. Left in committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302160117	No one else has short comments, so we thank the rapporteur. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Lise Bech from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302160130	Thank you, sir. President. L 145 is a draft law amending a law on the use of fertilizers in agriculture and on plant cover. This bill, as we have also heard, has to do with part of the implementation of the food and agriculture package. The voluntary post-crop scheme must ensure that there is no decline in the state of the environment after the nitrogen standards have been increased. Now there is a mandatory requirement for the establishment of catch crops as an option if the need arises. This is to ensure the necessary protection of the aquatic environment. It is important that the catch crops are laid out in the areas where they have the greatest effect on the reduction of nitrogen. At this stage, as I have said, the establishment of catch crops is a voluntary subsidy scheme. As it appears at present, there has been a great deal of support for the voluntary scheme. Farmers have really shown that they are taking responsibility because they must now fertilize something more. In 2017, a total of 137,000 hectares of catch crops are to be calculated, and round 1 is actually largely utilised. Round 2 started yesterday, and it just seems that interest remains high. Round 3 opens on 22 March and all rounds are open until 21 April. I think that has something to do with the timetable, as Mr. Simon Kollerup remarked. Nevertheless, I also think that this draft law is good, because it takes into account a situation in which some areas have yet to comply with the nitrogen quota. The draft law empowers the Minister for the Environment and Food to lay down a requirement for the establishment of targeted catch crops in areas where nitrogen reduction is needed in the event of non-establishment of catch crops. The Danish People's Party supports the proposal, but we believe that a proposal for a report should be drawn up which hedges in that the conciliation circle should be involved, so that it is not the current Minister for the Environment and Food who alone lays down the requirement for the establishment of catch crops in certain areas. I hope we can take that with us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302160408	Someone has asked for a brief comment. This is Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302160414	Thank you. Is it the rapporteur's view that we have this bill because the European Commission has demanded it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170302160421	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302160423	It is the rapporteur's view that we are doing this to protect the environment in the event that the voluntary scheme does not cover everything.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302160433	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302160434	But is it the rapporteur's view that this was part of the original agricultural package, or is it something that has come up later in negotiations with the Commission?
ParlaMint-DK_20170302160442	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302160444	This has come up later, because this is a draft law amending a law, but it is, of course, so that we can be sure that we will achieve it here in 2017 and 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302160457	Sir. Simon Kollerup, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302160501	Thank you. I think that was a very clear answer. What I would like to ask is the timetable under which we work in the parliamentary committee. Will the Danish People's Party be prepared to support it to have better time for committee proceedings? Indeed, I can read from the comments on the draft law that the order to be issued under this law will not be issued until June. Nevertheless, there is a very tight process going on here in the Folketing, where we have to submit a report very soon, and everything has to come into force on 5 April. So does the rapporteur not agree that it would be good for Parliament's work on matters relating to the agricultural package, and specifically in this case that we will have a better timetable to work under?
ParlaMint-DK_20170302160544	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302160545	Well, if it does not put anything back, I agree that the timetable may well be different, but there are some reasons that I do not know about right now that the timetable has been proposed as it is. One reason is that these rounds of applications will end on 21 April, and if you're going to use the mandatory one, you probably need some time to figure out how we're going to do it by June, I could imagine. But yes, I am prepared to look at it in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302160622	Sir. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302160624	Thank you. I think this is important because the Folketing must also have its time to work on the bill. I cannot reconcile the fact that the law is due to enter into force on 5 April, when the application round does not end until 21 April, and when, moreover, the notice, which then gives effect to the requirement for compulsory post-harvest areas, will not enter into force until June. So I think it seems very hasty for no reason, and we should be able to stand together. The rapporteur would like a contribution to be made to the report because the conciliation circle obviously does not get involved by the current minister, or how should I understand that? What, then, is the contribution of the report when the conciliation circle is to be involved?
ParlaMint-DK_20170302160701	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302160703	Thank you. It is simply what the bill itself says, namely that we authorise the Minister for the Environment and Food to lay down annual requirements for the establishment and placement of targeted catch crops, and if it is the Minister for the Environment and Food who decides it for himself, it can apply forever, even though we really know with ourselves that we are talking about 2017 and 2018 here. So I just want that fence in.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302160734	Sir. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302160738	Thank you. The rapporteur addresses some of what is also my concern about this, namely that there is such a very far-reaching authority for the Minister to be able to manage these things himself. I have thought that if this is to take place on the ground, things should be much more firm in some paragraphs, i.e. that if it and it are not met, it will automatically happen that the farmer has to comply with those and those requirements. Wouldn't that be a better form, and shouldn't we be working on getting a better version of the bill that way?
ParlaMint-DK_20170302160811	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302160813	I think that we should take this into account in the work of the committee, and what I have, as I have said at the beginning, is that it is just an annual statement and that it is the Minister for the Environment and Food alone who decides this. I think that we should continue to work on this and, of course, we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302160831	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302160833	Yes, because it will be a little undemocratic if it is the Minister alone who has to decide that now is the time for those farmers who have to do a little and the others to do nothing. At any rate, I like the fact that our rules will be equal for everyone and that we can read from the rules what applies equally to all farmers. So that seems to me to make the proposal much better.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302160856	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302160858	Well, I agree with that. I think it's all something we're taking with us.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302160906	We thank Mrs Lise Bech and go further in the rapporteur's line to Mr Lise Bech. Erling Bonnesen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302160919	Thank you. In connection with the examination of the draft law here, L 145, on requirements for the establishment of post-crop crops, the Left, of course, will vote in favour of the bill. The proposal must be seen in the context of a number of initiatives in our food and agriculture package, in which we have made a paradigm shift of the way we regulate the environment, an environmental regulation in which we focus our environmental efforts in the future, so that the effort is made where it is needed. With the food and agriculture package, we eased the general fertiliser requirements so that farmers can fertilise more according to the needs of the crops and thus continue to be able to contribute to Danish society with growth and Danish jobs. At the same time, we ensure that development takes place in balance with the environment and nature, and we engage with environmental initiatives where it is needed. The proposal must be seen in the context of the fact that we are also introducing a voluntary post-crop scheme. In the Left, we believe that we should go as far as we can, through voluntary action. We want and believe that Danish farmers can, far along the way, find their own way of laying out sufficient catch crops and protecting the environment from the discharge of nutrients. In fact, we have already seen that. In just a few days, many Danish farmers sought to establish many thousands of hectares of targeted catch crops, which shows that farmers actively support the food and agriculture package and that they want to help find good solutions so that we continue to look after our environment and nature. Of course, I welcome that. This authorization to lay down requirements for the establishment of catch crops must therefore only be used in the event that the voluntary method does not provide sufficient catch crops. The proposal thus contributes to ensuring that we take adequate care of our environment and comply with EU legal obligations in this area. We ensure growth and jobs in balance with the environment and nature, and that is why, of course, the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302161131	Sir. Simon Kollerup for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302161134	Thank you for that, and thank you for a very positive one, it has to be said, about the after-crops and this very ingenious system around it. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Left why the Left, who at that time was in a one-party government, did not then propose this model.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302161154	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302161156	Well, the whole exercise has been to say from the outset that we would like to do so as far as possible by volunteering. Now developments also show that we are getting away with it. Then there has been a debate that has led to different views, that is, what if we do not reach the goal? The European Union has asked and others have asked about it in the debate in general. We've said that it's clear that we're going to have to do this, so we don't get into this what if situation. We are, of course, on the goal of balancing things, including with regard to the environment, and therefore this authorisation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302161232	Sir. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302161234	Does the rapporteur think that there is still a lot of voluntary work to be done by farmers? The draft law here is, after all, a de facto abolition of voluntary service. It's not voluntary anymore. Of course, you can apply for a voluntary scheme, but if there are not enough applicants, then state power comes and imposes post-crops. So is it not true that, de facto, voluntary work is no longer in force in the agricultural package?
ParlaMint-DK_20170302161302	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302161303	Well, a new round has just been opened, where you can apply again, and I can at least be happy to note that farmers are actively and quickly seeking away and many people are joining the pool. So this shows clearly that as far as possible this will be resolved through voluntary action. But of course we also have to put it together. It is we here in the Folketing who are responsible for ensuring that things are linked at the end. That must be ensured, and we have one thing to do. a security for with this in case of what if.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302161332	Mrs. Ida Auken, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302161334	I'm thinking that if you're doing this with back and forth for the farmers out there, first it's voluntary, and then it might be mandatory... it wouldn't have been very clever for the Danish farmers too, that you'd had the legality of the agricultural package you were making before you started to adopt it in the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20170302161350	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302161352	The legality of it? Well, I firmly believe that this is okay. It has both been negotiated and we are in the process of implementing it now that we are dealing with a legislative proposal. After all, we have a good and competent civil service which supports it, so I am quite calm that what we are doing is okay.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302161409	Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302161411	So the rapporteur of the Left can reject the fact that this bill has anything to do with the communication that has been made with the European Commission?
ParlaMint-DK_20170302161418	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302161420	Well, I explained that earlier, and I can refer to that. I believe that this can be achieved through voluntary action. Then there has been a debate. The European Union has asked, others have asked, and the debate has asked: what if...? Well, there it is ultimately our responsibility as Parliament to ensure that we get to the end of this. Because I think everyone agrees that we should be in line with this, so that we have a balance in the environment and also take care of the environment, and that is precisely what this helps to ensure. The well-known, good concept of due diligence was used earlier in the debate here, and this can almost be translated into the fact that it is also due diligence from us in the Folketing that has to follow up on it. And then I am glad that it is by voluntary means that we will get on with it, and I hope that we will get on fully with it by voluntary means.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302161513	Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding of the Enhedslisten for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302161517	Let me ask you a little more directly: does the rapporteur recognise that we are dealing with this bill today because the European Commission saw through that the environmental accounts that have been presented, which showed a positive bottom line for the environment all the way through, were not linked?
ParlaMint-DK_20170302161532	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302161534	I do not recognise the questioner's point of view, but a number of people here have asked about it. The European Union has asked about what others have been asking about what has been a debate about it, and then we in the Folketing are showing due diligence by now getting this authorisation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302161547	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302161550	So this bill has come on the basis of a demand from the European Commission because they were negotiated with them and because they questioned the environmental accounts in the agricultural package?
ParlaMint-DK_20170302161601	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302161603	As I have answered several times, this is in my head the result of several people asking. The EU has asked, others have asked, there has been a debate here in the Folketing, and there has been a debate in society. And then we're all agreed on that, and I think that's a good thing that we're gonna have to do with this, so we're gonna secure the balance, also in relation to the environment. And then we secure this authority, so we get to the finish line. I also welcome the fact that thousands of farmers are seeking the voluntary scheme that we have set up. So it shows that it runs well with the line that is laid.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302161634	Sir. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302161636	I'm a little puzzled, too. Would it not have been timely if the government had said from the very beginning: now we are doing this as such a backstop and a safety pad for the whole agricultural package, which we have heard the expertise say will give rise to another 6 000 tonnes of nitrogen? Maybe you could have saved a minister, and you could have unfolded this in a much more sober way from the start. What we have to do now is to deal urgently with a legislative proposal that we cannot deal with thoroughly enough, and that is probably the result of objections from the Commission. So can the rapporteur confirm that it has been the case that there have been objections from the Commission which have made it necessary to patch up the agricultural package in this way?
ParlaMint-DK_20170302161725	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302161727	I do not recognise the questioner's premise, but I feel as the rapporteur of the Left that I am pleased that we are now getting on with the agricultural and food package, and that we can say, with one hand, that we allow farmers to fertilise more; and then we have to ensure the balance of the environment with the other hand. And that is what we do with a number of different measures, including catch crops, and of course we have to do with it. After all, it is we in the Folketing who have, we can say, the overall overall responsibility for achieving the goal. I am glad that the voluntary scheme seems to be working well, but we must also achieve it. So to give the answer to what if the situation, which has been here and is here, I would say that it is good that we get this authorisation in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302161811	There is another brief remark from Mrs Trine Torp, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302161815	I would just like to ask the rapporteur of the Left whether it is the rapporteur's impression that the European Commission has now approved the environmental accounts and there will be no more demands from the European Union on the basis of the agricultural package.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302161829	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302161831	But with regard to the European Union, I am quite calm that our minister and government are conducting a dialogue with the Commission and the European Union in this matter, as well as in all sorts of other cases, and will have the issues raised by the European Union settled. I am quite calm about that, just as I am calm that we will then have this authority in place to, we can say, give the answer to what now, if the situation that we have had here in the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302161857	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302161859	So agriculture can safely count on no more regulatory requirements?
ParlaMint-DK_20170302161906	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302161908	Hypothetical questions can always be asked. I am dealing with reality and I am glad that we are now getting this authority in place so that we have a clear answer in a what if situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302161920	No one else has asked for short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur in the series is Mrs Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302161932	Thank you. This bill is a consequence of the agricultural package. This is a consequence of the choice to reduce environmental rules. They tried to hide it. It was attempted to present an environmental account which made it appear that, as a result of the agricultural package, there would be a green plus, a plus for the environment in all the years when the agricultural package would apply. That wasn't right, and it was revealed. And the Commission is now insisting that environmental compensatory measures be put in place to protect groundwater, such as: targeted catch crops. But that does not change the fact that this is a patchy solution to reduce the pollution caused by the agricultural package. It is a patchwork solution which must stem the worst consequences of the root shop of an agricultural package, which, frankly, should have been made properly from the outset, so that from the outset a package of reasonable balance was found; a balance which, on the one hand, took account of agriculture but, on the other hand, respected the boundaries of nature and the environment. The draft law should authorise the Minister to set up targeted catch crops and to reduce the nitrogen quota in the event that voluntary catch crops are not established in the most vulnerable water catchment areas. There is no doubt that Enhedslisten is positive about all the measures that can stem more pollution from agriculture, but it is therefore inappropriate that we do so in a way that we build a bureaucratic monster around the environmental regulation of agriculture. It will require a great deal of control, and it will require a great deal of monitoring to ensure that farmers do exactly what is necessary; that after-crops are interpreted exactly where they have to, in order to have the necessary effect. To increase nitrogen pollution by changing fertiliser standards and then compensate for it with complicated post-crop schemes, neither agriculture nor the environment are served. Sir. Simon Kollerup of the Social Democratic Party pointed this out, and I would also like to criticise the timetable for this bill. If the law is to come into force on 5 April, as has been proposed, it is another legislative proposal which we will have to rush through the Parliamentary Chamber, as is happening over and over again in connection with this agricultural package. I just have to say that I think that the Danish Parliament has already modelled quite a lot on the agricultural package. We were deceived, and now we are faced with one piece of legislation after another, which must be rushed through completely unreasonable deadlines, because the government is busy quickly getting the Commission satisfied. I simply believe that we, as a Parliament, should stand together and say that this must be enough, and we must demand that the government give us the time necessary for us to be able to carry out our work properly.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302162258	There is one brief comment. It's from sir. Erling Bonnesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302162302	Thank you. As you know, the Enhedslisten is not included in the package, so if the rapporteur had made a very different speech from the one made by the rapporteur, I would have been surprised. I am not surprised that the rapporteur is trying, as it were, to put it down. However, since the facts are, when we talk about this with the voluntary catch crops, that we can see that farmers are applying for it by thousands and, in some of the pools at least, almost oversigning them, it is not quite consistent with the argument put forward here by Enhedslisten. So it is perhaps just now that it is a pity for the Enhedslisten's rapporteur that farmers are flocking to the voluntary scheme. What Enhedslisten is doing here is not connected.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302162344	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302162346	I'm glad I'm acting like sir. Erling Bonnesen predicts. But is it the rapporteur's view that agriculture is generally saying: how wonderful is it that we now have a government that will ensure that we lay down catch crops? Is this how it should be understood that one has just been waiting to have several different types of post-crop schemes with different application deadlines? And now there is the last step here, where we say: if you do not do what we want and lay them out exactly where it is necessary, then we will bring you some mandatory catch crops, and otherwise we will drag you into the fertiliser quota. Is it the rapporteur's view that those out there are cheering over the fact that this is now being knitted together?
ParlaMint-DK_20170302162434	Sir. Erling Bonnesen, second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302162437	I understand that Enhedslisten's rapporteur here uses the familiar trick when you are a little bit on it, namely that the best defense is a counterattack instead. Here are the rules of the game: when you stand down here, you ask the questions, and when you stand up on the platform, you answer. My question was about that and I do not want to repeat the whole explanation that the argument put forward by Enhedslisten is not connected. So when so many thousands of farmers are looking for the voluntary scheme, is it even annoying the Enhedslisten's rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20170302162505	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302162507	So let me reply: it is not my view that relaxing the fertiliser quota in order to knit together a deeply complicated post-crop system, based on a number of voluntary schemes that are added on top of each other, but finally trumped by this, that we say that if you do not do it exactly in the right places, there will be compulsory post-crops, and otherwise we will drag you into the fertiliser quota, is an appropriate way of making environmental regulation for agriculture. That was an answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302162537	Sir. Simon Kollerup, the Social Democratic Party, has asked for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302162541	Thank you. I am just taking the floor because I think it is a little thought-provoking to attend this dialogue and debate, which is where you almost see a Left, which is very far away from the reality of agriculture and, like it, speaks a little cheerfully about the many different systems here that need to be sought within certain deadlines, and the voluntary nature, and that it is going out there. I would like to ask the rapporteur because I know that the rapporteur is very thorough and thus perhaps has seen something I have not seen: is it the rapporteur's view that with the measures we are discussing today there will be no more demands as a result of the dialogue with the European Commission? Does the rapporteur think that the government has now closed that dialogue with the European Commission on the basis of this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20170302162621	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302162623	No, I do not think that this closes the communication that is in progress with the Commission. This is one of the measures, we know. It had to be rushed through, and you may be busy, but I think, and it should be clear to everyone, that this has not yet been completed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302162643	No further brief comments have been asked, so we thank Mrs Reumert Gjerding and go on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Reumert Gjerding. Carsten Bach of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302162653	Yesterday, the second round of applications for voluntary targeted catch crops was opened. It is the round that focuses on coastal waters, and only on the first day yesterday more than 35,000 hectares were sought by well over 1,000 applicant farmers. In addition, applications for voluntary, targeted catch crops aimed at groundwater have already been well under way for a month. Well started, as you know, is half complete, and the interest has therefore from the very beginning been overwhelming. In several areas of the country, the need for groundwater has already been met after a few weeks. I very much welcome this as a liberal environmental and food rapporteur. It also gives me the hope that the intention of constructive cooperation and voluntary action, which was at least the spirit with which the Liberal Alliance entered the food and agriculture package, can actually be put into practice. It also gives me new positive energy for the further political process and the implementation of the agreement on the food and agriculture package, so that, overall, we ensure that there is no deterioration in the aquatic environment during the transition period from 2017 to 2018 as a result of the political initiatives that are now part of the package. The great interest also confirms me that agriculture is actually prepared to meet the overall political intentions behind the food and agriculture package. But why are we standing here today and having to deal first with a compulsory post-crop scheme? Unfortunately, in my opinion, this is largely due to a lack of understanding within the EU system of the traditional Danish principle of voluntaryness and the constructive cooperation between authorities and agriculture to protect the aquatic environment. Instead, we in Denmark are being pressured to wear belts and braces, so that a kind of safety net of extra post-crops is added to this compulsory post-crops scheme, where, after the third and last round of voluntary post-crops, the board can come after farmers with a requirement for post-crops to be laid out without compensation, if, of course, against all expectations, they do not have to report in one hundred percent voluntarily. The effort can therefore seem excessive, and it is certainly not with the goodwill of the Liberal Alliance, but the Liberal Alliance supports the bill and hopes that the EU's critical approach to voluntary and constructive cooperation will be put to shame by the ongoing application for voluntary catch crops. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302163027	There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Simon Kollerup, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302163034	Thank you. I think we see the liberal rapporteurs in the noble art of blowing and having flour in their mouths. Because, on the one hand, the Liberals are being stressed and believe in volunteering, but at the same time this bill is precisely an expression of not believing in volunteering. So my first question to the rapporteur is: what is it that makes the Liberal Alliance no longer believe in voluntaryness in relation to the farmer's planting of catch crops? Why would there have to be such a claim on this table? The second part of the matter of blowing and having flour in your mouth is that you really do not think this should be introduced at all because the European Commission has misunderstood things. After all, the Liberal Alliance is free to think so, and the Liberal Alliance often makes a virtue of that, that is to say that you are a party to yourself and that those who are ministers are in government alone. But that is why the Liberal Alliance can say that this will not be done because it is believed that the European Commission is operating on a totally wrong basis. So the question is: why do we no longer believe in voluntary agriculture regulation, and why do we vote in favour of this when we believe that it is on a totally erroneous basis that it has been decided?
ParlaMint-DK_20170302163144	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302163148	I guarantee you, sir. Simon Kollerup for us in the Liberal Alliance to such an extent that we are still in favour of volunteering. Why are we voting in favour of the legislative proposal here on compulsory post-harvest crops? We do this because we in the Liberal Alliance are basically people who can be said to take the concerns of others seriously. And that is precisely what this draft law expresses: it is an expression of the fact that the four parties behind the food and agriculture package take external concerns seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302163225	Sir. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302163228	So you do not agree with the European Commission, but you take it very seriously, and that is why you are still voting for what the European Commission thinks Denmark should do. This is an exciting new liberal principle, which I do not think I have seen from the Liberal Alliance in the past. I would like to ask: now that we take the concerns of others seriously, the rapporteur agrees with Mr McMahon. Did Jørgensen say that this proposal for post-crops as a result of the agricultural package could cost up to 2,000 production plants?
ParlaMint-DK_20170302163303	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302163306	With regard to the first remark made by Mr Seligman. Simon Kollerup I would just like to point out that it has always been part of the text of the agreement to take any concerns seriously and subsequently change the scheme. In relation to the statement by Mr. Flemming Fuglede Jørgensen, I would like to say that I find it difficult to comment on that. Flemming Birded Jørgensen has those numbers from.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302163335	Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302163340	That is a little in line with the previous one. I cannot understand how, as a liberal politician, we can pay tribute to a principle that builds up environmental regulation around agriculture, which is extremely complicated and bureaucratic, which will require enormous control and monitoring. I cannot understand how this can be part of the basic principles and basic values of the Liberal Alliance, and that you think this is a brilliant way of doing it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302163407	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302163410	I understand that Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding cannot understand that. I am also quite sure that if Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerd had listened very carefully, she would also have heard no tribute to these post-crop schemes, which are certainly bureaucratic and which the Liberal Alliance would certainly have liked to have gone beyond. However, the post-crop schemes have, after all, existed even before the food and agriculture package and were, in fact, originally part of the food and agriculture package. So there has not been a new system subsequently, if that is what Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding is suggesting.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302163452	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302163455	No, I'm not implying that. I am merely suggesting that the complex that is now being built up is extremely bureaucratic and extremely difficult. And you have replaced something that was, after all, relatively simple, yes, you were angry at it as a farmer, but it was, after all, simpler, with something that is extremely complicated and enormously bureaucratic. It is true that the rapporteur did not pay tribute to it, but I would just like to ask these additional questions. If we now have a form of production which is much more naturally within the limits that exist, both because it is called ecology, both because fertiliser consumption is significantly lower, and because pesticides are not used, which allows us to convert to an agricultural system that will require significantly less control of environmental pollution and groundwater pollution, could this not be something that we could meet with a liberal politician about?
ParlaMint-DK_20170302163538	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302163541	I guarantee that I will always meet with Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding. And then I would like to say that the measures we are talking about here today are, as I think I was also told in my rapporteur's speech, about a transitional regime towards targeted regulation, so this is a transitional regime for 2017 and 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302163606	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has any brief comments. In agreement with the chair, it is now Radical Left Mrs Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302163616	Thank you very much. Then we stand here as a kind of sweepers who have to clean up with the big sweep after a rather messy process about an agricultural package. Now I'm not supposed to be like a fortune teller, but I remember I think it was for, among other things. Mr. Simon Kollerup, when we left the negotiating room in December 2015, I said that first the greens get pissed, then the EU gets pissed, and then the farmers get pissed. It was quite my assessment of what would happen with this agricultural package. And yes, it's because I've experienced it before. I have to say that the course we went through was almost one-to-one of what we experienced in 2009 when we chose to abolish the set-aside scheme and instead put something that was not good enough, and then we had to come up with some new demands for farmers afterwards. At that time, the catch crops and the peripheral zones were brought in, and now we have a new bureaucratic system which, nevertheless, eliminates the voluntary nature of these peripheral zones. So it's a very strange way of making legislation, it's a very strange way of making politics in this country. That is also why I have to stand here on the speaking chair of the Folketing today as one of those who helped to clean up after the last round, when we came behind with water plans, we were getting a verdict, and it made me have to rush through an extra hearing, which was a very unsightly course. So I simply do not think that this is a wise way of making policy. The government could have stretched in the direction of those with whom they negotiated, instead of saying that it should just be the government's 16-point plan. One could have tried to maintain the balance between nature and the environment that the previous government with S and R and part of the period also SF tried to establish. We made a Nature and Agriculture Commission to find these solutions, for example. the targeted regulation that could benefit both nature and farmers. We spent an incredible amount of effort trying to get out of this eternal trench war between nature and agricultural interests and were actually very well on the way until you chose to come up with a 16-point plan, which is a little bit a, now I've used the coffin in the first sentence, so I can use the steamroller here. This is just not how you make good policies, it is not how you make long-term frameworks. I therefore believe that the fact that we are standing here today and having to clean up after an agricultural package, because it was not in accordance with the international law to which we ourselves have committed ourselves and signed it, says everything. So on the part of the Radical Left, we are not very enthusiastic about the way in which we have chosen to do this. We, like both the Social Democrats and the Enhedslist, think that the timetable for this once again shows that it is simply haste, that it is simply no way to make rules for such a large and complex area as agriculture, that we have to rush it through the Folketing and that we barely have time to deal with it. So the Radical Left is very reluctant to give its support to this proposal, but will go into committee work and see what we can get out of it in this short period of time we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302163929	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302163936	Thank you. And thank you for the speech, and thank you for involving us in the side job as a fortune teller. I think that's fine, because it's always nice when some people can see into the future. When I meet those people, and it's rare I do, but when I meet them, I usually stick quite close to them. I mean, it could pay off at the end of the day. So it may be that Mrs Ida Auken and I are going to spend a little more time together. However, does Mrs Ida Auken not recognise that there may also be something in challenging the EU system and saying that enough is enough I almost want to say and push a little on the EU's narrow ties if you really have the ambition that the four blue parties had left in December 2015, namely the ambition to provide some framework conditions for Danish agriculture, which can develop Danish agriculture and benefit Danish agriculture?
ParlaMint-DK_20170302164033	Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302164036	Sir. Carsten Bach is always welcome to stay close, and he can join us here in Vartov in a moment, it will certainly be nice where we have to sing all kinds of good Danish songs about both nature and agriculture. He's very welcome. Of course, you can choose politically to try to get your things through, but if you know that what you do is directly so much at odds with the law that you are being warned by your officials that this is actually contrary to the law, I do not really think it is a political freedom that you have. Actually, I don't think so. I do not think it is our right to go so close to the law that we are in fact almost breaking the law with our eyes open, and that is what we saw here when we read the pilot who came from the EU. It is, after all, 8 pages dismemberment of the agricultural package, and that was not because they had misunderstood it. It was just the provisions of the Nitrates Directive on voluntary service that were violated. That's one of the reasons you're holding this today. It was the Habitats Directive, it was the Water Framework Directive. It can be annoying with these directives, and when Mr. Carsten Bach makes it sound like it's the EU out here, it sounds really bad. But the European Union is us. These are the rules that we have signed on behalf of the people, and we cannot just break that law.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302164142	Sir. Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302164146	I am not entirely sure that I share Mrs Ida Auken's view and interpretation of the matter in this context. I am sorry to inform you that I have one more matter in the Chamber and that unfortunately I cannot accept the invitation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302164201	Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302164204	Yeah, well, it's really a shame that sir. Carsten Bach cannot come along, and I would also like us not both to be members of parliament in the world and in this Parliament and to take care of a lot of things. I wish I could be here for the last case too, but unfortunately I can't, because I'm going to sing. Yes, I do not think there is much more to say than that I just generally believe that if you have signed a law, you will keep it until it has been amended, and of course it needs to be changed where you can do it, and that is with the other EU countries. So if you want to change the law and think it should be more lenient, you don't do it by breaking, you do it by changing it where it is adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302164238	No one else has asked for short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur and wish him a good song. The next rapporteur is Mr. Christian Poll from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302164248	Thank you. At header level, I was actually pretty positive when I saw this bill. The catch crops are, after all, one of these well-documented instruments that we know to work. That is why it is a positive proposal. There is just one problem with several of the things that have already been raised here today. The first is that this matter must be rushed through. When I started reading the proposal, I saw things where I thought: Why is it screwed up like that? Seems weird. As the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party pointed out, much of it lies as a power to the Minister, and it seems a little as if the Minister can distribute to the right and left based on this wording of the law. I would like us to be more precise in the work of the committee. I think we should make a proper effort to ensure that our legislation is transparent and that it becomes clear that we are all equal before the law and that people should not be treated, as the Minister thinks, but according to paragraphs, so that they know in advance what they can risk meeting requirements when, for example, you have to. is a farmer. Although, basically, it is a positive instrument dealt with in this draft law, we cannot take a final position on the part of the Alternative right now. We think it would have been due care if this proposal had been presented as a backstop, as a basis in the overall agricultural package. I understand, in particular, the consultation response from Sustainable Agriculture that it would have been very unpopular if it had been included from the outset. So I must take this as a reaction to the fact that the Commission in particular has questioned the pollution caused by the rest of the agricultural package. Perhaps that is also why it should be rushed through in this way and that several parts of the proposals are unclear in the sense that we do not quite know how it will be regulated in practice what farmers will encounter if the voluntary means are not sought. So we in the Alternative wait for the committee work to take a position.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302164531	No one has asked for short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Trine Torp from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302164540	Thank you. The government has turned things upside down with the agricultural package. First, the fertiliser use is lost, and then repairs have to be made afterwards. This is the reverse order in relation to the recommendations of the Nature and Agriculture Commission from 2013 in relation to the targeted regulation, because it actually states that it is a clear prerequisite for the new model of nitrogen regulation that EU objectives for the condition of the aquatic environment are met and that existing regulation is not phased out until new regulation is developed and ready for implementation. As other rapporteurs have said, I would also like to criticise the way in which a bill has been put through the Danish Parliament in a very short time. After all, the government already has a majority, so why worry about troublesome elected representatives from other parties, but I now think that it is block politics in the raceway and not very respectful of the people's regime. One of the consequences of the government's unilateral commitment to the interests of agriculture is that there are problems with the EU, because the agricultural package is simply not compatible with EU legislation. One of the results we see here. The Government's proposal is a legislative proposal which is forced by the Commission, which does not allow nitrogen leaching for drinking water and the aquatic environment to be increased, and therefore requires catch crops to suck up nitrogen. The government has always proposed voluntary action for Danish farmers, but has now had to supplement with mandatory requirements if the objectives are not achieved by the voluntary scheme. This means, in fact, that freedom is replaced by bureaucracy, with several application rounds for catch crops. We want to help remedy the consequences of the environmental failure of the agricultural package, but are very critical of the government's law-tsunami. However, whatever I have just said, we shall be constructive in the work of the committee from now on.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302164758	Mr President, there is one brief comment. Erling Bonnesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302164804	I just have one little thing. The rapporteur began by saying, and I think that the choice of words was something like farmers being able to drive away or being let go. Is it the rapporteur's view that farmers can just do exactly what they want? It almost sounded like it was wild west the way it was laid out.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302164824	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302164826	No, but at least with the agricultural package, we have lost out on the fact that they can fertilise more than the European Union allows, and that is what we have now and have to repair.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302164835	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302164838	Then I think you have to go a little far into the countryside to find proof of the words: more than the European Union allows. Then I can ask the other way round: does the rapporteur agree that there are some quite clear, not to say very clear rules on how much manure farmers can use on their own farm and on the individual fields, and that it is not, as the rapporteur says, just to run away?
ParlaMint-DK_20170302164900	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302164902	It's a fact that this is to clean up the nitrogen leaching that is, so I'm just gonna have to throw the question back. Then why are we standing here today? Why do we have a legislative proposal that actually makes even more demands on farmers if the voluntary scheme was just enough?
ParlaMint-DK_20170302164927	Even if the question can be thrown back, sir. Erling Bonnesen doesn't answer, for Mr. Erling Bonnesen has no further brief comments, and no one else has asked for brief comments, so we thank Mrs Trine Torp. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Orla Østerby of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302164941	Thank you. The legislative proposal before us today is part of the legal implementation of the food and agriculture package. Here we authorise the Minister for the Environment and Food to lay down an annual requirement for the establishment and placement of targeted catch crops corresponding to a specified nitrogen reduction and the possibility of reducing the enterprise's nitrogen quota for the planning period if the farmer does not plan the catch crops. The voluntary registration for the catch crops is currently overwritten, which means that the voluntary part of this is allowed to enter into force. However, the possibility of requirements guarantees that in future there will always be enough catch crops on the right land. With the legislative proposal, we meet the EU's requirement to ensure that the areas on which we agreed in the package, namely 29 000 hectares, are available and that is what we are securing for the European Union with this. It is surely no different from what we see in many other legislative proposals in this High Things, which come down to the European Union and are being dealt with and which then come from a reaction from which we then comply here in the Folketing. So what we are getting here is what we in the Conservative People's Party have been fighting for, that is to say, that we have so many catch crops realised, both in the agricultural package and in the natural package. After all, this bill guarantees that the hectares to be planned will also be laid down, but we are glad that farmers voluntarily join, so that it will be a voluntary scheme that will work in practice. Finally, I would like to say that my experience with these schemes and with this agricultural package in the real life of the farmers in which I live is that there is a very positive attitude towards the work and legislative implementation we are undertaking here in the Folketing. So I am sorry that there is a feeling that Danish farmers are very, very dissatisfied with this. It's not my experience.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302165158	One person has asked for a brief comment, and that is Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302165202	However, I assume that it is the view of the Conservative People's Party that a change in regulation in relation to agriculture must not affect nature and the environment. Isn't that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20170302165214	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302165217	That is precisely why we can say that what the European Commission has just done here and there may be many reasons why the Commission has chosen to respond to the legislative proposal we are discussing here today is that the voluntary scheme that we have put forward in the government, which has had to work on the 29 000 hectares laid out, is now what is being laid down here, so that we guarantee that it will be implemented in practice. And we are pleased about that in the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302165257	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302165300	But would the rapporteur not agree with me that it is still the view of the Conservative People's Party that it would have been better if it had been managed that the agricultural package would not burden nature and the environment from the outset, instead of having to go through this whole chaotic process, where the Commission is now requiring Denmark to take more initiatives and where we have no guarantee that this is the last one?
ParlaMint-DK_20170302165322	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302165324	I do not know what Maria Reumert Gjerding knows about what is going on in the European Commission. I understand a little bit about the fact that you have a way into the system and that that is what makes you know that some new measures are under way that will allow us to make new laws on farmers. That's not what I'm hearing. What I just have to say is that what we are doing in practice now is what we are doing in connection with lots of other legislative proposals in this Things, so that it gets past the European Commission. They must also show their justification, and they must also show that they are there, and they simply indicate that the 29 000 hectares to be set aside for land for post-crops will be legally guaranteed. And that is what we are doing when we adopt it at the third reading, that is to say, it will also be implemented.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302165413	No one else has asked for brief comments. Thank you, sir. Orla Østerby, and we now move from the rapporteur to the Minister for the Environment and Food. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302165419	Thank you for that, President, and thank you for your comments. It's a little funny when you sit here and listen to the debate. We hear a Socialist rapporteur talking about it being the most chaotic year of the past year, and then we reflect on it a little bit: who really is responsible for it? Who is responsible for incredibly many, numerous polemical consultations and false claims? It is even a rapporteur who has been involved in negotiations until the last evening when the package is adopted, and who has probably been involved in writing himself, that if there was a decline in the state of the environment and after dialogue with the Commission, security measures should be put in place, that is, exactly what we are doing today. What is too bad is that you cannot have such a rather useful debate about this, because the viewers cannot know the history as we can. So when it is said that the time of the past year has been troubled, and I do not know what, I have to say that very, very few people in this high thing are responsible for, and the Socialist rapporteur is certainly one of them. Then there is also talk of the whole voluntary sector being smoked. I think it was Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding or Mrs Trine Torp who said that. Well, it's like you haven't read this at all. What is volunteering? It is that you can choose to take voluntary catch crops with 700 DKK. in compensation, and you can choose to have a reduction in your nitrogen quota. There's plenty of volunteering. It is up to the individual farmer himself to decide on his own land planning. Yes, you marvel. Now Mrs Ida Auken has left, and that is a little too bad, because Mrs Ida Auken made a lot of sense of the fact that laws had to be observed and incredibly many other things. I do not think I need to remind you of who it was that minister, who it was that got the entire river basin file back, because consultation deadlines and the like were not respected and who it was that went into legal proceedings about this. I do not think I need mention that it was Mrs Mette Gjerskov who had a proper round of rim zones. Well, it's almost a little too funny to listen to when you're sitting here. This is a fantastic bill. It is precisely the essence of the food and agriculture package that we say with confidence to the farmers: here you have an opportunity to have an increased nitrogen quota or you can have the opportunity to set up some additional post-harvest crops in return for compensation. It is a fantastic environmental paradigm and a fantastic regulation of food and agriculture that we are implementing with the whole package. The only thing that can be a little annoyed about is that where the Socialist President was saying the other day that she wanted to do good for agriculture, one hears the Socialist rapporteur acting quite the opposite. But there I am delighted, and I would also like to sign for that with the good cooperation with Mrs Lise Bech from the Danish People's Party, and that we have to work with targeted regulation, and that will be the next big dossier in relation to food and agriculture. Of course, it can be regretted that, as the Socialist President said, what they want to do a great deal, the Socialist rapporteur has so completely undermined his behaviour in relation to the content of this agricultural package. That is, of course, a pity, because the government wants to make broad agreements that extend far in the field of the environment and food, so that it offers a guarantee for the industry. This bill ensures the framework that must be provided, and for me it is quite natural that the Commission has looked at whether Denmark is fulfilling its obligations in relation to the directives. If the Commission does not believe that we are doing so, we shall, of course, correct as in so many other areas, just as it has been written in the agreement in which the Social Democrats and Radicals were present until the last moment before its publication.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302165843	A number of brief comments have been requested. First, it's sir. Simon Kollerup of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302165851	It was, however, the most polemical ministerial speech I think I have heard to date here in the Folketing. If that is the way the Minister intends to use his speaking time, that is to say to attack members of parliament to do their job and point out things in a process of the agricultural package, which has obviously been recognised by the European Commission as being problems, then I think that the standard is being low. Therefore, I would like to ask whether this bill is a reflection of Mr. Simon Kollerup's work as rapporteur in the Folketing or of the European Commission's approach to Denmark. I think that is quite easy for the Minister to answer. Not only do we have to listen to the polemical speech; we also have to work under a totally unreasonable timetable for this bill, just as we had to do with the livestock regulation and other proposals from the agricultural package. So I would just like to ask the Minister: why is it that we cannot have a timetable, for example? Is the Commission prepared to submit a report, let us say on 19 April?
ParlaMint-DK_20170302165953	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302165954	The rapporteur must be responsible for the controversy himself. Anyone who heard the speeches before me on this platform could, of course, hear the Socialist rapporteur's voices about how miserable this is and how the European Commission is going about it with one and the other, and it is worth noting a rapporteur who has himself sat and negotiated it until the last moment when he jumped into the goal. And the rapporteur also knows very well that the agreement states that if the European Commission has any reservations about the decline in the state of the environment, it will be corrected accordingly. That's exactly what we're doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302170031	Sir. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302170033	The polemics continue because the Minister is standing there holding his ministerial line and thinks that the members of the parliament are groaning up because they have a problem with this bill and, incidentally, think that the timetable is too bad. But let me stick to the question that the Minister fails to answer: does the Minister intend to give the Danish Parliament more time to deal with this bill so that we can have a thorough and proper legislative process that many parties have requested from the Parliament's platform?
ParlaMint-DK_20170302170104	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302170105	I note that every time we have had this debate on food and agricultural policy, Mr. Simon Kollerup had a desire to train every process in the committee. I leave that to the committee. I don't intend to interfere with that from this platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302170120	Sir. Christian Poll, the alternative, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302170123	Thank you. I would also like a little more answers from the Minister to some of what I have felt uncertain about in this draft law. For example, I have. Mr President, I should like to make a few comments on this report. I would then like to hear from the Minister whether it was possible, in the context of the committee's work, to look at whether things could be made more specific in the paragraphs, so that the farmer has a clearer sense in advance of what he can expect from regulation. There is a concern expressed by the Danish Nature Conservation Association, which is of course about the fact that they actually feel uncertain as to whether it is possible to enforce the letter of the law to place the post-crops exactly where they ensure the necessary nitrogen reduction. And if this is actually going to be very difficult and not entirely feasible in relation to the proposal, we are uncertain whether it will work at all. So I would think it was nice to get some answers to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302170233	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302170234	Thank you for the question. I am now quite confident that the post-crops will be laid out in the mapped ID15 catchments to absorb nitrogen. That is why we have been quite detailed throughout the setup that has been in relation to the opening of the post-crop system and the way in which you register in three rounds. I am glad to see that too, and I would like to commend Danish Agriculture for having just taken an active part in this. I'm very comfortable with the setup that's been made, and I'm pretty sure we're gonna make it. And then, quite safely, I can sign for what Mrs Lise Bech also said from the platform on the part of the report, namely that it has to go over the conciliation circle. I certainly have no problem with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302170318	Sir. Christian Poll for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302170320	The conciliation circle doesn't help me much. And that is why I would think it was reasonable that things should be in paragraphs rather than as an authorisation to the Minister. If it is written in paragraphs, any citizen in Denmark can go in and read the legislation in force and find out what applies to me if I am the farmer. And I actually think that's relevant. I wonder whether the Minister could not have seen that it would have been more timely if it had been started at an earlier stage. You could have seen from the beginning that this, for example. could give rise to increased nitrogen emissions, so if that were the case in the end, we could just have a law like this one that actually picks up. Wouldn't that have been more timely?
ParlaMint-DK_20170302170412	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302170413	Thank you. Well, I think it is an expression of very clear due diligence, since the common form will close on 21 April. And if catch crops are to have an effect, they have to be implemented accordingly. And since it is only now that the nitrogen quota has been phased in, it is only now that we can see the effects of it in relation to the post-crop system. So in this way it is quite natural that it follows here in the process. I'm aware that sir... Christian Poll, as he says, does not get so much out of it because he is not part of the conciliation circle, but that is the situation when you work in a parliamentary system. Anyway, sir. Christian Poll is welcome to reconsider whether he should enter and be part of the agreement. This would only be welcome in relation to the alternative's good signal that it would like to take part in broad agreements in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302170457	There is a brief comment from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302170501	Thank you. I am glad that the Minister had a good time during the debate. I am a little sorry that I was not credited as one of those who had helped to work against this agricultural package... well to feel not to bother this minister or the former minister, but because we were dealing with an agricultural package that could be detrimental to our nature and our environment. And that is what is the whole discussion here, and what is the whole motivation, it can be said, for all of us who have questioned environmental accounts, the methods used, and indeed the basis of this whole package. I also understand from the Minister that this has not been a messy process. I also remember that the rapporteur of the Left said 'and I can't remember the quote exactly' something like this just running, that it's running on track, that it's almost been planned. And if that has been the case, I would ask the Minister to answer whether this is the last thing we see in terms of compensating for the additional pollution of the agricultural package or whether there will be more legislative proposals. Are there any more interventions or are we about to be at the end?
ParlaMint-DK_20170302170605	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302170606	But more legislative proposals and more intervention require that there have been some ahead of it, and that is not the case. Well, this is the first thing we do as a consequence of the dialogue that has been with the European Commission. Then we have had our livestock regulation, which is a completely new way of adapting our livestock regulation, and it is clear that it has some elements, in relation to what can or cannot be done in agriculture. But this is quite expected, in other words, that in a change in relation to the largest agricultural and environmental regulation in recent times within the Danish system there is an in-depth dialogue in relation to the directive obligations that are for a country. And that is also why we naturally create some systems that we then qualify together with, among other things. Commission. We see this in Germany, France and the Netherlands, but unlike those countries, we are not involved in a trial with the Commission, as some of those countries are. I see this as a natural development when you make such a big change as we do. Our obligation is to comply with the directives, and that is also what has been written into the agreement, and that is what we are honouring today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302170717	Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding, second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302170719	I think we should be careful just to say that this is a perfectly natural change. We could also have waited until the conditions for targeted regulation were in place to reschedule this system. You didn't choose that. You picked a different model. It was decided to degrade the environmental rules first before you had the new system in place to go to the edge and even over, and then you had to go into a negotiation, so we have some patchy solutions. I also see livestock regulation as part of the agricultural package and its consequences. But the question is, are there any more, or are we about to be at the end now?
ParlaMint-DK_20170302170753	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302170754	But I do not agree at all that this is a patchy solution. In other words, regardless of how you make a new environmental and food paradigm, you have to document how, on the basis of the paradigm, you will live up to the directive obligations you have. And this is done in a dialogue with, among others. The Commission, and then a framework is provided for it. In some situations they have made aftercrops, in some situations they have created peripheral zones, and in some situations they have used different tools, and now we use this tool. I fully agree with what Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding says, that different models could have been chosen. You could say, do you start with the chicken or the egg? I have great respect for that, and we just look at it differently. We have found it important to make the model we have created for the great benefit of Danish agriculture and also for the benefit and benefit of the environment, not least when we then also implement the targeted regulation and the work that follows with the river basin plans.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302170846	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Orla Østerby, Conservative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302170849	Thank you. I understand that at the last minute the Radical Left and the Social Democratic Party chose to jump from a settlement that they themselves helped to shape and negotiate, and I need the Minister to describe just how Danish Agriculture sees this here. How does Danish Agriculture view what we are dealing with here today? What kind of feedback does the Minister get in this area from those who really have to live it out? I can hear and understand that some people think that they know much better what agriculture thinks than agriculture itself knows. Can the Minister describe it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170302170936	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302170937	Thank you. I'd love to do that. I am experiencing an agriculture that is extremely satisfied with the food and agriculture package that has been delivered, including with the new livestock regulation. To allocate 29 000 hectares of catch crops out of a total area of 2.3 million. ha, well to mark with 700 kr. in compensation per year; hectares are an excellent arrangement, and that is of course also why we see an over-application in these areas. It is also a very good step to be able to produce more in Denmark and make it more targeted, while taking clear account of the state of the environment that needs to be and that we are obliged to have in terms of directives. So I do not experience what is being described by several rapporteurs in this high point.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302171025	Is there a request for another brief remark? No, there isn't. There is no one else who wishes to make brief comments, and so we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302171049	I would just like to give the Minister the opportunity to be ready, because once the debate has been opened, it is the Minister for the Environment and Food who is the first. I know from experience that we must be able to get the right documents up to date. The minister is ready, so I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302171124	Thank you for that, President. I would also like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for allowing us to discuss how we should develop the ecology in Denmark. The Enhedslisten suggests that the Danish Parliament instructs the government to set up Denmark's ecological land-use fund with the aim of buying bankrupt or threatened agricultural properties. Purchased farms must be leased out on long-term contracts which can be passed on, with a number of specific clauses, such as: requirements for conversion to organic farming. The proposal is justified by the fact that the fund, through the lease of agricultural land, provides for a more democratic management of agricultural activities, so that it will be more balanced with the rest of society and in the interests of society as a whole, for example. nature conservation, animal welfare and groundwater protection. The government cannot support the proposal, but I would like to pay tribute to the aim of it, namely a greater conversion to ecology in Denmark, but also the context of nature conservation, animal welfare and groundwater protection. If we do not then support the proposal, there are several reasons for this, to which I would like to add a few words. In relation to the proposal's argument about nature conservation and more space for nature, there is already the Danish Nature Fund. The fund has contributed capital to it, and it is precisely the purpose of the fund to create projects, including the purchase of land, the creation of nature protection and new nature. In relation to opportunities to raise responsible loan capital for farms that are efficient and well run but are locked up in debt, the government has just established the Danish Agricultural Capital Fund. The pension funds ATP, PKA, PensionDanmark and Industriens Pension invest a total of 500 million. kr. in Danish Agricultural Capital. Together with the capital from the state, which was invested through the Growth Fund, Danish Agricultural Capital collected a total of 1 billion. kr. Since 2012, the Growth Fund has financed almost 600 farms for more than 2 billion. kr. and also have specific experience in financing conversion from conventional to organic agricultural production. At Danish Agricultural Capital, organic farming has the opportunity to apply for loans on an equal footing with other farms. The Enhedslisten's proposal to create Denmark's ecological land-use fund is similar to several existing private initiatives. Organic Landsforening and Danmarks Naturforningsforening have founded the Danish Organic Agricultural Fund, which has almost the same purpose as Enhedslisten's proposed fund. On the basis of private shares, the funds of the associations must buy out farms which are closing or being sold in order to subsequently lease them out to, for example: young farmers who want to drive them forward as organic farms. The associations plan to open the first subscription period for share purchases for members and other interested parties in the spring of 2017. The associations expect that the fund will be able to finance the purchase of agriculture for approx. 100 million kr. Another private initiative is on Samsø, where a group of citizens have joined forces and have set up a farm fund that buys up farming on the island and converts them and leases them away to organic farmers. The government does not believe that it is the way forward for the organic sector that the state is tying buildings and land and thus also farmers to organic farming. The agricultural law in force also limits the duration of leases for a period of not more than 30 years. We believe that the ecological sector in the long run is best served by being market driven and that this should be done in interaction between the individual farmer and the market. Therefore, it does not make sense to demand organic farming. We get the organic area and the production that the market demands, and conversion to organic production is a process that typically takes two years before it is fully operational and can start marketing organic products. That is why organic farming must be developed through real initiatives which strengthen the individual farmer's belief that organic products will also be marketed in the years to come. Farmers must be allowed to try hard on organic production and, if that type of farming does not fit, it must be possible to put back again. The government supports growth in ecology in several areas. Specifically, we have set aside 90 million. kr. in the period 2016-2018 for development initiatives under the organic farming fund. It's going to be okay, among other things. I would also like to point out that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer is an important step in the right direction. In addition, in the period 2017-2020, we have allocated more than 1 billion. kr. for organic area subsidies and conversion grants. Thus, the government has assigned funding to a larger ecological area than ever before. It is historic in itself. To strengthen the organic sector a little further, I have set up an ecological business team with resource professionals from the industry to make concrete recommendations on how competitive and market-driven organic growth can be supported in the areas of marketing, export, raw materials and innovation. I look forward very much to receiving those recommendations during the spring. They will form the basis for the government's future initiatives in the field of ecology. Farmers already sign for the government's organic policy. In 2016, Danish farmers applied for subsidies to restructure approx. 40,000 hectares of agricultural land for ecology, the largest conversion since the 1990s. They do so only because they have confidence in the market and the possibility of marketing their products, and in order to obtain a type of farming which they can rediscover in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302171652	There are two brief comments. The first one's from sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302171657	Thank you for the nice reception, in which the Minister speaks, that the government would like the ecology to work well. We would like to continue working together on this. You also have to see this proposal for a government land user fund in a different perspective. I think it is a little grotesque, after the agricultural legislation has been liberalised, that everyone can buy up farmland in Denmark. A German cannot buy a summer house, but a German can buy a estate in Denmark. Seems a little crooked. I have previously asked the former Minister for Agriculture who is actually buying agricultural land in Denmark. I could not get an answer because everyone could make a Danish company, and then one could then come to the conclusion that it was officially a Danish company, but one could not know it. So I think you should also see this fund formation from the perspective of ensuring that Danish farmland is on Danish hands. And it will be, also with such a state fund here, so I would like to hear from the Minister whether the Minister sees any advantages in that it is Danish funds that will own more Danish agricultural land.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302171759	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302171759-2	As a starting point, I do not have a reservation in relation to ownership as long as the production and jobs are created in Denmark. Just as I have an interest in investing risk capital in Danish business to create development and growth, I think it is good in the current legislation that we have today if there are interests that will invest in and develop Danish agriculture, for example. in organic production. This applies in relation to ownership of land. But there is no doubt that when we have the recommendations of the business team later this spring, it will be a pleasure to discuss them with, among others. The Enhedslisten's rapporteur on how to see even more than we do today can strengthen the development of Danish ecology. And I believe that both the Enhedslisten and also the government parties have a strong interest in having a solid marketing base in our food production so that we do not risk the drop-outs that we saw in earlier times when the bottom suddenly went out of the organic market.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302171859	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302171901	I think there is a difference in the fact that it is foreign owners who own the Danish farmland, because then a surplus can be withdrawn from Denmark. I believe that if they are Danish owners, the profits will be reinvested more in agriculture, either on the farm or by expanding production, and to develop a food sector in Denmark. So that's where I see the biggest difference between Danish capital or foreign capital that is driving for Danish agriculture, and who wants Enhedslisten to be the driving force behind Danish capital.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302171936	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302171937	I certainly do not disagree, and I would also like it to be Danish capital that drives our agriculture and our development of Danish agriculture to a large extent. It is today, of course, with the ownership that is. It is just to say that I have no reservation in relation to the fact that there may also be foreign capital brought into the country for the development of our sector. I don't have any reservations for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302172003	There is a brief comment from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302172008	In fact, this is a little further to the previous question, because it is incomprehensible to me that we are not more concerned about the liberalisation of the agricultural law that happened in 2010 when it was just opened up that foreign participation could buy Danish agricultural land, so that something that is so fundamental and fundamental to our country and our culture and everything can be in the hands of all sorts of foreign companies. I know that this is a concern that we share with Agriculture & Food. Normally it is perhaps more the Left Party that syncs positions with Agriculture & Food than the Enhedslisten. I would just like to ask a few questions about this: is there not this concern at all, and has the Minister considered following developments in relation to the purchase of Danish agricultural land which is in foreign hands?
ParlaMint-DK_20170302172057	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302172058	I mean, I've talked to Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding before about the fact that you can't put a day to your life by worrying. That is also why I take it fairly calmly and, of course, follows the development of our entire agricultural area, because we have an interest in my party, we have it in the government to have strong Danish self-owners who develop our agriculture, also with capital, but we have also been through a capital crisis, and there we have to say that we have made Danish Agricultural Capital, which now supports this development, and if there are stakeholders who are actively entering and investing in Danish land, then I do not think it is a disadvantage. They can simply contribute things and perspectives that we may not have had ourselves in Denmark, but, as I said to Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen: My overall idea is, of course, that a large part of the land should preferably be run by Danish farmers with the reinvestment of capital that then also comes into it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302172154	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302172156	Well, that's what we're agreed on. I would say that when liberalisation was carried out in 2010, this self-owner's idea was part of the process. Some of what we really should be discussing now is: Should we work to ensure that the land remains in Danish hands, possibly in different structures? A State Land User Fund can be one, and the Minister mentioned various private initiatives? I would like to ask a question during the committee reading about how this foreign acquisition has developed and whether we could reach a place where we at least agreed that it was an advantage that Danish agriculture and Danish agricultural land were in Danish hands.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302172238	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302172239	I am incredibly moved that Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding is so concerned about the Danish. This is also something we are in the government, and if we can help each other on the agricultural side to further develop Danish agriculture, both with a good economy, which makes it attractive to make a generational change, and so that we also see a renewal of the agricultural structure, then I will only be pleased. And that is one of the things we can discuss, also in relation to the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302172301	No one else has asked for short remarks, so we thank the Minister and go to the rapporteur's line. The first rapporteur in the rapporteur's report is Mr Beazley's report. Simon Kollerup for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302172311	Thank you. First of all, I would like to say that we in the Social Democratic Party agree with the proponents' diagnosis of the agricultural situation. Agriculture is in a deep debt crisis and there is a need for measures and initiatives to pull agriculture out of its crisis and into a new era of growth and prosperity, so that new young farmers also have the opportunity to enter the market and drive agriculture and, in the long term, of course, also ensure the very renewal of agriculture. There is no doubt that we in the Social Democratic Party want agriculture. We have launched several initiatives to resolve the debt crisis, including our "Growth Plan for Food', where we are among other things. provided more opportunities for capital for agriculture and new forms of ownership which we have just discussed. It is an agreement which, by and large, has strengthened the international competitiveness of the Danish food industry as a whole, among other things. by making it easier for companies to expand and convert production. This also applies to the 2015 growth initiative, where we are among others. proposed the creation of Danish Agricultural Capital, and as far as ecology is concerned, we helped to set goals for the ecology of the future, where we among other things. had as an ambition to double the ecological area by 2020 compared to 2007 and to spread the ecology of the public sector. We have therefore worked with a number of growth plans to bring agriculture out of the crisis and to try to lay the foundations for a healthy and stable agriculture, but as the resolution also mentions, we are far from achieving it. Ground-use funds can be part of the solution. Our position in the Social Democratic Party on a land-use fund as such is unchanged, compared to what we have meant in the past. We welcome the construction, a land-use fund in which agriculture itself and its related companies, together with financial institutions and credit associations, carry out the financial task. However, in our optics it is not optimal for the state to take the risk of taking over those farms where there is great economic uncertainty. That is why we in the Social Democratic Party are in favour of the principles of establishing a land-use fund, but the method that the proposers mention here is not appropriate in our optics. On the other hand, we support initiatives such as the one we are discussing here. has looked at Samsø, where work is being done to establish a local community-run land user fund. We also support the Danish Nature Conservation Association and the Danish Organic Landsforening, which have joined forces to take responsibility for future ecology and agriculture by purchasing farms that are closing down. This helps to open the door to new farmers who see a future in the industry, and all these initiatives are precisely possible because of the changes to the agricultural law that followed up at the Growth Plan for Food. So I would just like to congratulate the intentions and principles behind the resolution, even though we in the Socialist Group do not support the method and hence the proposal. I should also like to welcome the rapporteur of the Radical Left to say that they cannot support the proposal either. There is a need for stability and growth initiatives in agriculture. This is an area in which the government has not delivered, and that is why I would like to call again on the government to invite us to broad negotiations so that, in the long term, we can create a more stable, secure and attractive agricultural sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302172653	There are a few brief comments and the first is from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302172659	In fact, we have been discussing this proposal with the Social Democratic Party for 18 years, and in the year 2000 a working group was set up to clarify exactly how to build such a construction in the form of a land-use fund. I think it is really a pity that we do not see the prospects of getting some agriculture into the hands of the Community, where we can also help to make some new demands that agriculture can help to raise natural efforts and climate action, because in reality it is deeply outdated to see only agriculture as a factory producing cereals and pigs and milk like a shoe factory. Agriculture can do so much more, and precisely a land-use fund can help lift all the more that agriculture can actually do. So what I would like is for us to sit down and have a very constructive dialogue on how to finally knit this together, so that after 18 years we may begin to meet each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302172756	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302172758	After all, Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding has received up to several offers from young people, and I also believe that male rapporteurs would like to sit down and talk and discuss the issue, and that is what we want from here too. I also hope that my rapporteur's speech showed that we can see the music in the fact that agriculture is more in the hands of the Community, but the community I am talking about is not necessarily the state community. It is the community where a land user fund on Samsø is developed or where organisations and financial institutions join forces to operate ownership. So there are certainly perspectives in the construction of a land-use fund, and that is also why we have helped liberalise the types of ownership that are possible in agriculture. We think it is good if the ownership forms can complement each other out there, but we do not think it is the state that should take the risk and go into farming in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302172850	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302172852	In fact, I agree that we need to have a diverse ownership of agriculture and that this is a very good idea. I am very concerned about the liberalisation that was carried out in 2010 when it was opened up that all kinds of foreign capital funds could go in and take over Danish agricultural land. So it would also be nice if we could meet to close that gap so that in Denmark we can create a diversity of ownership forms, but also that we agree that we should not have Chinese capital funds own a large part of Danish agricultural land. Can we agree on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20170302172921	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302172923	What is important about agriculture, and what is also the genius of the construction, is that production lies where agriculture lies, and therefore production will be in Denmark, no matter where the funds come from. Of course we must be aware of the developments mentioned by the rapporteur there, but I do not think we should say that it should not be possible to invest in Danish agriculture, because that only shows that we have an attractive agriculture if others also want to invest. But I can understand the latent concerns that may lie in any accelerating development, and that is why we must of course keep an eye on it, but I do not think we should cut off the supply of foreign capital to Danish agriculture.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302173004	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302173007	I would also like to take part in the further dialogue between the Social Democratic Party and the Enhedslisten, and we might as well come to some positive conclusions, because this proposal will be at the top of the green drawer for the first time we have to make a financial law together with a social democratic government. So you might as well get used to this being something we're serious about, and we've done it all the way. I do not see that it is so bad that it should be agricultural land owned by the state. We already have. There are a number of prisons in Denmark that operate agriculture; we have some estates • Hald Ege, Kalø, Fussingø • which are owned by the state and run by the state, so I can't really see from what is happening out there that you can't create a state fund that helps buy up some farms. It is not a proposal that we should buy all farms that go bankrupt, but that we should buy up some farms and lift them into a fund formation. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether we cannot come up with a solution within two years, so we are ready for the next financial law.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302173113	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302173114	I would like to start by saying that hopefully it will not be two years before we have that debate. This can be done as early as the autumn if the government changes. However, I would also like to stress that, just as seriously as Enhedslisten, I mean this proposal, just as seriously as I mean it on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, when I say that we do not think that the state should operate land-use funds. We think that the structure is sensible, that there are reasonable ideas behind it, and that is why we welcome it where we see it spreading. That is where we have to say that our food growth plan and the liberalisation that has been of ownership have made it possible for the Community to come in and participate more fully in owning and taking responsibility for Danish agriculture. But I do not share the intention to put state capital into such a fund and thus help to take responsibility, on behalf of the great Community, for the agriculture that is, I understand, gone downside and home, and then it is they who have to be bought up.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302173213	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302173215	After all, there will be a refinancing of such an agriculture that goes down and then you will be able to start afresh. And it isn't because it's Mr. Knox. Simon Kollerup or other politicians who are going to run these farms; it is agriculture that is being leased out, for example. to new young farmers who find it difficult to get started. If you have to establish yourself on a small farm of 5 million. kr., you have to have about 20 per cent yourself. in equity, so just to start up with a small farm, you need 1 million. kr. And these are some of those young farmers that we want to help out by creating a fund. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether the prospect of having more tools to ensure that we get young people into the profession is not worth going after.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302173250	Sir. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302173251	Yes, indeed. It is also part of the socialist agricultural policy to help improve the opportunities for a generational change in Danish agriculture. We believe, among other things, that we have done it with Danish Agricultural Capital, with the growth plans in the food and growth scenario in 2015, and with the ecological plan, you will also get it if you implement it, and the current government does not do so, but the Social Democrats will then work to do so if we have to be entrusted with the responsibility again. So I believe that the palette of initiatives that can be put into use too few younger forces into agriculture is ample and that we must continue to expand it, but we simply do not agree with the concrete proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302173339	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302173343	Thank you. I can then reveal to Mr. Knox. Simon Kollerup may not come as a surprise that the undersigned does not at least hope to see a future Finance Act discussion between S and Enhedslisten, if the relevant proposal we are discussing here today is at the top of the Enhedslisten pile. But in return, I will ask Mr. Simon Kollerup, about Mr. Simon Kollerup and the Social Democratic Party believe that there should be more or less agricultural land in public hands than there is today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302173418	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302173421	I would like to start by saying that, in the way that the new Triple Government has come from the start, it may well be that the rapporteur's concerns have to live out sooner than expected. It is certainly a strange course to sit and follow such a little on the sidelines, but let it be so. I do not, in fact, have a firm position as to whether it could be a larger or smaller area, which is public. I am just saying that the proposal we are dealing with here about a State farm fund is not the right way to use the funds, and I do not think that the state should take the risk of such a fund.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302173500	Sir. Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302173504	Thank you for your answer. Then I'd like to know if Mr. Simon Kollerup and the Social Democratic Party believe that there should be more or less growing restrictions on the agricultural land that the public already owns today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302173519	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302173521	This is not a relationship with which I have been working in the preparation of this motion for a resolution, but just as I would like to sit down and have coffee with Mrs Reumert Gjerding, it could be that we should do it with Mr Reumert Gjerding. Carsten Bach, too. I can almost sense that the rapporteur has opinions on the matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302173536	No one else has short comments, so we thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Lise Bech from the Danish People's Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302173545	Thank you. The Enhedslisten is presenting a motion for a resolution on the creation of an ecological land-use fund for the purpose of purchasing agricultural property. In the Danish People's Party we support ecology, and we support the positive development of ecology, and it is maintained, among other things, by giving priority to an ever-increasing ecological area. But ecology must be market driven. It must be consumers and farmers who decide which products are produced. This proposal, I have found out, has been put forward several times here in the Danish Parliament, and it will, among other things. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report, which he has presented to us, and to thank him for his excellent work and for his excellent work. I think that is very contradictory. The Danish People's Party does not believe that a state ecological land-use fund is the way to go. That is not the way to help agriculture. It may also happen that the land-use fund becomes a price-maker and then destroys the free market. There are already other players on the field, among others. Danish Agricultural Capital, and here all farms have the opportunity to apply for loans. In fact, I do not believe that many farmers would be particularly enthusiastic about Enhedslisten's proposals either. Farmers are a hardworking people, and they prefer to decide and organise production and working life themselves. Now, I may be a little too direct, but this proposal is essentially about Enhedslisten wanting to convert Danish agriculture into ecology with the help of the state, and I do not think it is the task of the state in this way. So we cannot support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302173757	There are a few brief comments. The first brief comment is to Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302173803	With regard to the free market, does this mean that the rapporteur believes that the externalities that conventional agriculture entails should be internalised in prices? We can, of course, talk about a free market only there. Then I would like to know whether the Danish People's Party agrees with the liberalisation of the agricultural law that came in 2010 which has allowed foreign capital funds to take over Danish agriculture and hire a farmer as a tenant. However, when we come up with a proposal that the farmland should remain in Danish hands, and then a farmer can be hired as a tenant, then the Danish People's Party is very opposed. Would the Danish People's Party rather have foreign owners into Danish agriculture than that it stays in Danish hands?
ParlaMint-DK_20170302173852	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302173853	The Danish People's Party really wants as much of Danish agriculture as possible to be in Danish hands, but we do not believe that it is the state that should farm. And there may be some outside capital, but I'm not so worried about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302173917	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302173919	It is very clear from the proposal that it is farmers who have to farm. The question is, who's gonna own the land? Right now, we have legislation that allows it to become foreign companies, capital funds, anyone. What we want here is for it to remain in the hands of the Community and for the Community to have some opportunities to make demands, perhaps also for agriculture to raise some social benefits. But I just don't understand why the Danish People's Party would rather have an opportunity for foreign people to buy in than for us to keep it in the hands of the community. And, of course, it is the farmers who have to run the land, that is clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302174001	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302174002	It is simply amazing how many fortune-telling women we have in this Chamber today. There may be foreign capital, but that it will cover all Danish agricultural land, I simply cannot see for myself.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302174020	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302174023	But what is the reality out there is that there are companies that buy up Danish agricultural land, and that is therefore foreign owned companies. This is already happening on a large scale, and it is not just a few Dutch people who come up here and establish themselves in Denmark. It is, in fact, foreign capital, and I think it would be very good if we could clarify it through a committee procedure. The former Minister for Agriculture could not do a statistic on it, and that is probably because it is very difficult. I think it is a little strange to hear the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party go so much against the state being able to own some land that is then leased out to someone or driven by others. We have, for example. State prisons in Denmark, which own agriculture and where the fact that there is an agricultural holding helps to rehabilitate criminals who need to be slugged back into society. And it's going really well in those places. It is such an example that tasks other than pure farming can be solved that there may also be other intentions to have state-owned agricultural land. After all, what we are proposing is that there may be some land that you buy from a fund and that you have some requirements that groundwater must be guaranteed here, that more forest must be planted here, that some nature must be guaranteed here. That is what we intend to do. So there is no compulsion in it, and I can guarantee that the farmers who are going to lease these lands will also work hard. That's the way it is in agriculture.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302174137	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302174138	I would hope, then, that the rapporteur for the proposers can hear how bad a comparison it is between Danish prisons that farm and that the state should farm on a large scale. That is no comparison to make, I simply do not think so. So, I am in favour of solving the agricultural crisis, and we are on the way with this, both with private initiatives and with Danish Agricultural Capital. In North Jutland and many other places in the country, young farmers start by renting their way into a farm because they do not have enough capital. I don't think we should go in as a state and run farming and own land.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302174229	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302174231	Well, you just have to admit that it's the reality in several places. It is not only Danish state prisons, there are also large farms in Denmark, which are owned by the Danish state and are run ecologically, because it adopted a majority in the Danish Parliament when Svend Auken was Minister for the Environment. So it already exists. This is just a suggestion that we should take some more land and get it into a state-owned land-use fund that can then lease out some agriculture, for example. to some young farmers who want to get started so that they do not have to pay off to get started farming. I cannot understand why the rapporteur does not find it positive that we should keep more agricultural land in Danish hands.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302174306	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302174307	I think we should keep as much Danish farmland as possible in Danish hands, but it is certainly not in this way that we should do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302174318	We are grateful to the rapporteur because there are no more brief comments and we go further in the rapporteur's line to Mr Beazley's report. Erling Bonnesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302174331	Thank you. This proposal from the Enhedslisten is really a re-submission of proposals for the start of nationalisation of Danish agriculture, and thus it is indeed an attack on free, private and liberal property rights, and we are by no means in favour of that in the Left. On the contrary, we are strongly opposed to it and therefore, of course, we are also voting against this proposal. However, we support ecology, and in Denmark we see an increase and a great development in the sale of organic food products in these years, and we have long been a country that other countries are looking at when inspiration is to be given to the agricultural and food sector. We take the lead in Denmark in many areas, which means that today we are one of the world's leading countries in the area of organic food purchases. What is the reason for this development? I think that we should give consumers a great deal of credit for this, because if the demand for organic products did not exist, a move to promote the market would not make sense. We must remember that supply follows demand. We in the Left fully support ecology, but it must be on market conditions, and we will not risk those farmers who have long fought to preserve and operate their own agricultural property being the victims of unequal conditions of competition. In the Left, we do not believe that we should set up a fund to buy farm buildings and lease them out to farmers with organic farming requirements within one year's operation. This is contrary to the views of the Left and is contrary to the free market forces. Farmers must compete on equal market conditions, as with so much else, and it must be up to consumers themselves what they want to put in the shopping basket and on the plate. In the Left we say yes to ecology on market terms, but no to the state buying up the land, and the Left votes against the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302174537	We take a brief comment from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302174542	Thank you. I did not expect the Left to fully support our proposal to establish a State farm fund, but I did think it was positive that the Left expressed its positive attitude towards ecology. But it is only a market-driven ecology which the Left is thinking of. I find it a little thought-provoking that, in many municipalities and regions, ecological priorities have been given priority in the feeding of hospitals, day care centres and schools. There is public opinion in terms of promotion in the shoes and there is a strong influence on the increase in the consumption of organic products, and there is a healthy consumption in the public sector. After all, we are looking to the effect that nearly 10 billion will be spent. kr. organic food in Denmark, and about 1.5 billion. kr. comes from the segment of public canteen and large enterprises. They have ecology in their canteens, and I think that's actually pretty good. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether it is not also positive that municipalities and regions are helping to get more ecology in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302174648	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302174649	Just as citizens and consumers have their free right to decide what should be in the shopping basket and hence on the plate, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, the institutions have the freedom to choose what they want to buy. That is where they make decisions on their democratic basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302174706	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302174708	Part of democracy is that we have a Parliament which can, of course, adopt things and laws and take initiatives. That is why I think it is quite natural that we in Parliament can also discuss the creation of a State farm fund which could help to ensure that more agricultural land is in Danish hands. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur does not see anything positive about the fact that it is not Chinese capital funds or whatever it might be that will own Danish agricultural land, but that it is more new funds that will establish themselves and will own the land in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302174737	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302174739	The proposal that we are now considering from the Enhedslisten is a proposal that the state should enter through such a fund and buy up agricultural land. We say 'no' to that in the Left. It is a nationalisation of it, and we do not think it should be. The State must help to create the framework conditions precisely in order for others to buy up agriculture and operate the industry. After all, it has also emerged from the debate and from the previous questions and answers, which have been so far, that there are a number of different things, growth funds and other things that can be said to help lift the framework conditions. But that the state should go in and through such a fund start buying up agricultural land, we say clearly no to that from the Left. No to nationalization.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302174824	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302174826	The ownership of land is absolutely fundamental in this proposal. What we are discussing is whether a few people should own agricultural land or whether it should be the many. Should it be a few Danes and foreigners, or should it be all of us? I think you have to be careful not to say it's the state, because if it's the state, it's all of us. Then we ensure that all Danes participate in owning Danish farmland. The dairy farmer in West Jutland, who is going bankrupt and who is unhappy that it is the neighbouring farmer who is going to buy the farm he has had for generations, would prefer it if he had the opportunity to put it into a Community-owned fund and stay on his farm. Could there not also be very good arguments that we should jointly own agricultural land?
ParlaMint-DK_20170302174925	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302174926	Well, I think the Enhedslisten has looked once to Russia and China and seen how things went with state-run agriculture. In some cases a tractor filled with diesel fuel was bought, but when it had run out of diesel fuel, you did not know what to do. It was, in fact, a good idea that it did not go in Russia with state-run farms. So I don't want to start copying those models. So there is a clear answer from the Left: No to nationalisation of agricultural land.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302174956	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302174957	Something you know for sure about Mr. Erling Bonnesen, when he doesn't know what to say, starts to chat extremely, and I think this was an example of that. I would just like to ask one more question: why is it so attractive for the Left that a few people own the farmland instead of being able to own it together, so it was all Danes who owned the farmland? What is the huge ideological block we are dealing with here? It is about whether all Danish citizens should be involved in owning agricultural land or whether it should only be a few.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302175030	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302175031	I am glad that it is very clear that the Enhedslisten and the Left are smokingly opposed to this matter. In any case, no doubt has been left behind. I would really be worried if we had created a muddy picture here. The fact that Enhedslisten says that what I said was nonsense confirms me that I am on the right track when I clearly say that the state should not buy agricultural land.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302175055	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Erling Bonnesen from the Left, and we move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Bones. Claus Bach of the Liberal Alliance. Sir. Claus Bach was enjoying the view, but there is a much better view from the platform. Welcome to sir. Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302175116	Thank you. I was confused briefly by the fact that this is a motion for a resolution we are debating and that a little has therefore been changed in the rapporteur's line and confused by the President, because my name is actually Carsten Bach. B 59 is, after all, a matter of state buying and operating agricultural land. It's gonna be a no from the Liberal Alliance. Now it's not Friday today, but if this was X Factor and I had a big red button with a big red cross, I would have pressed it by now. I will have the opportunity to do so a little later, at least I hope to press another red button. That's what I'm gonna do. The Liberal Alliance wants exactly the opposite. In fact, I would like to call on the Minister here today, from the platform, to call for discussions, even soon, in order, if possible, to dispose of some of the existing public agricultural land. For in the Liberal Alliance, we believe that market-driven development of ecology is the way forward, a way in which individual farmers and consumer demand determine whether an agricultural holding is ecological or not. So the Liberal Alliance must clearly reject the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302175308	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Carsten Bach, but that brought a brief comment from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302175316	I would really like to ask the same question to Mr. Carsten Bach, whom I posed to Mr. Erling Bonnesen, namely: Why is it so important that a few people own Danish agricultural land, instead of it being something that we own together? Basically, I don't understand. It is not because it is not farmers who have to cultivate the land. It is not, of course, because farmers do not have a decisive influence on how to organise operations. It can ensure the generational change that we are all extremely concerned about. This may even help to solve the climate challenge. We can help create more nature in the agricultural country. We can use it to lift so many social benefits. Why is this not an attractive proposal for the Liberal Alliance?
ParlaMint-DK_20170302175404	Sir. Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302175407	I understand very well why Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding does not understand me, and it is quite simple because there is a very, very large ideological distance between Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding and the concrete proposal we are discussing here today and then myself. In this context, I would very much like to maintain ownership, and there are already some people today who own the agricultural land in question, and I think they should continue to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302175440	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302175441	But we are moving towards a structural development which means, if it continues at the same rate, that we have one farm left in Denmark in 10 years' time. That is something we must reflect on in some way on politically. What kind of agricultural activity do we really want? How do we see the prospects for this? How do we secure jobs? How do we ensure the diversity of what is cultivated? Is it not something that the Liberal Alliance also thinks about, or is it just that if everything is going on and someone wants to buy it out on the world market, then everything is good? This is a very important profession in our country. Doesn't the Liberal Alliance also have some wishes, some visions, some ideas about what we can actually get out of this profession?
ParlaMint-DK_20170302175522	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302175524	Thank you. I think it might be running a tiny bit out of hand for Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding. In any case, I would like to see the statistics and the curve leading up to the fact that in Denmark there would be only one farm in ten years' time. I'll look forward to it. For my part, and for the Liberal Alliance, which I also tried to describe in my rapporteur's speech, market forces must prevail, and in the Liberal Alliance we have absolutely nothing against people who want to invest in Danish agriculture.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302175600	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302175602	I really think it is interesting that we can have a debate on what drives Danish agriculture and what creates new initiatives. And so something can arise where it is not the farmer who owns his land. On Samsø, they have set up a land-use fund with the intention of attracting young farmers who move to the island, so as not to end up with the fact that only pensioners live on the island. And that is why they have created a land-use fund which also aims to buy up part of the land and lease it out to newcomers who hopefully are young. And the next two, who are going over there, are two who are completing their training as organic farmers. I think that is a very good initiative, which shows that they are being given opportunities. And that is what can arise when it is the community that owns the land and you then lease it out to some others. So it is not a question of state farming. What we are proposing is that we should also get something where there is even more state-owned agricultural land that can be leased out to farmers who can then take the initiatives they want in the field of great liberalism.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302175708	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302175709	One of the last things the questioner mentions is precisely this with even more agricultural land in public hands, and that is just another no thank you from here. I fully recognise that there can be private initiatives, communities around Denmark, on Samsø, as the questioner mentions, which can get some synergies out of farming jointly or otherwise create new forms of operational communities. I fully acknowledge that. And if you think back to the origins of the cooperative movement and so on, there are some of the same thoughts in it. What is only the difference is that it is a private initiative and that it is private property that is protected and not more or less public expropriation of agricultural land in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302175806	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302175807	No, it is not expropriation at all; it is, in fact, a matter of buying up some land and then renting it out to some farmers. And I think it is incredibly exciting with the cases that have been seen in what is called the socially beneficial agriculture, which in the last few years has focused on picking up what is really new initiatives. Young farmers rent themselves on land, rent themselves into stable buildings and start production without owning land, but where they focus on what they are best at, namely to care for animals or grow some vegetables, without having to focus on the fact that they have a large debt in the bank, but where they have leased some values, and then they have to run a production. It releases some new forces, and I would hope that the Liberal Alliance could see some greater perspectives in that one can drive agriculture and develop something new and perhaps easier to do so if one does not have the big debt yoke hanging over the neck.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302175856	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302175857	There is certainly nothing that the Liberal Alliance is more focused on than all the forms of agricultural production that exist in the quite Danish country, but also, it can be said, more widely in the world, which may not be about ecology and which is not about quite ordinary farming, as we know it today. And perhaps, who knows, it could be that the rapporteurs of the Enhedslisten and the Liberal Alliance in this area could take a trip one day out into the Danish country and look at some of the different forms of agricultural production that are out there, and perhaps we could even extend it subsequently to a trip out into the world to look at agricultural production that is a little out of the ordinary.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302175949	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Carsten Bach of the Liberal Alliance. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Christian Poll from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302180001	What are we doing with agriculture, asking writer and journalist Jørgen Steen Nielsen with his book from September last year. Perhaps that is the answer to Mr. Carsten Bach on where the number of farms comes from, for Jørgen Steen Nielsen describes in his book that every day two Danish farms close. And if we produce that development ten years, we will actually end up with one gigantic agriculture, and that is a development that we are very concerned about in the alternative. That is why we are very much in favour of Enhedslisten's proposal. We are concerned about the opening up of large capital funds to agriculture and that we are thus moving in the opposite direction to what we think we are going to do with agriculture in Denmark. We believe that we need a lot of agriculture in Denmark. We believe that we must create an ecological conversion, a conversion which is in fact well under way, but which lacks structural decisions to support the development we would like to see. And this resolution, which is contained in the Enhedslisten's proposal, could be one of them. That is why we will support the proposal. We think it might be a good idea to create Denmark's ecological land-use fund. We think it is just as important to see initiatives as the one on Samsø mentioned several times, and the Organic Landsforening and DN's Danish Organic Agricultural Fund. We are not particularly in favour of it being state-owned, but we see fine opportunities in also having a state-owned organic farming fund. So there's support from the alternative here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302180202	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302180206	Thank you. And thank you for being so helpful; I have already received a link, I think, to the figures in question. I'd like to ask Mr. Christian Poll on whether he may also have some figures on how many farms are resurrected every year.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302180234	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302180236	Thank you. I don't have that right now, unfortunately. But I assume that when a knowledgeable gentleman like Jørgen Steen Nielsen describes a development in that book from last year, it is because it is well-examined, and I have the impression that it is If you go back a generation in agriculture, you will see that, for example. were far more employees than there are today, where, as far as I remember, there are about 60,000 employees in primary agriculture, in primary production in Denmark. We do not want to go back there, but we would like to go back to an organic farming version 2.0 version, so that there will again be life in the countryside with a great many more people employed out there, and this can be done in some common forms of ownership, so that there will be a great deal of commitment and a great interest in creating something other than just a narrow profit, so that diversity and joy will be restored in the work in agriculture.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302180337	The next question is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302180344	Thank you for supporting this proposal. Then we are moving forward with support and towards something that points to the fact that, if we push them, perhaps we could persuade the Social Democratic Party to make the first financial law after a change of government, to be part of something visionary on the agricultural side. I would like to take this opportunity to say that with regard to the headline we have on Enhedslisten's proposal to create Denmark's organic soil user fund, it has recently happened that that name has been taken by the Danish Nature Conservation Association Foundation, so if there are some who are a little confused about what kind of proposal it is, I can understand it. So we have to come up with a different name, and I'm completely open to if mr. Christian Poll has a better name for this state farm fund. We need a process where we find a different name than that used. I think it would be very good if we were to be more parties to make a success of the new fund that comes here with the Danish Nature Conservation Association as its initiator. It is important that more people help to ensure that this fund is a success if it is the case that we need to persuade the Social Democrats to realise that such fund formations are good. And I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether we can be together to spread knowledge of the funds which, as it were, arise and can help to be the agriculture of the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302180505	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302180507	Yes, thank you very much. We were out immediately when DN and Ecological Landsforening came with their foundation, and gave it thumbs up, so we think this is the way forward. Let's come up with a name, yeah. Maybe it has to be something with the cooperative movement 2.0 or something like that. Because I think there are great prospects in rethinking the cooperative idea and using communities at all levels. And there it is important to remember what communities can be, because it may be a small assembly of private consumers; it may be municipalities; it may be the state. It is all communities that allow things to hold more than the pure focus on what one earns and has of profit tomorrow.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302180600	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302180601	I think we're going to go beyond that guessing name-play, and I don't think we're going to come to the conclusion that it's a co-operative movement we're creating here. It's meant to be a fund formation. I think we should leave it up to consumers and farmers to try to renew the cooperative movement. This is also what happens through shops and through the active cooperative movements that exist, also through those which are somewhat smaller than the largest cooperatives in Denmark. So this is a proposal to create a state fund, and we would very much like to continue to do so in cooperation with the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302180635	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302180635-2	Thank you. We'd like that, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302180643	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Christian Poll. The next rapporteur is Mrs Trine Torp of the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302180648	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Enhedslisten for trying to make some suggestions on how the conversion of agriculture can be supported, and also, what can be said, with some suggestions on how to deal with the agricultural economic crisis. However, we have some reservations. It is not, of course, because we are opposed in principle to the land-use fund; I think that many here will know, because we have worked on several types of proposals in the SF, without actually having ever landed such a finished model. However, when we have some reservations about this proposal, it is because agricultural debt is in this way shifted from banks and credit companies to public companies, and also because the risk of the proposed fund is much greater than that of the green investment fund, which is also mentioned, because only one thing is supported. If the price of ecology falls, the Fund may suffer a very large loss, which is not covered by the contribution alone, and therefore the other funding from the Fund will be relatively expensive. In addition, the part of the funds intended to cover nature and forest, etc., will be expressed in terms of lower earnings and returns. So we do not really believe that the two funds can be compared. In the SF, we believe that the development of ecology, organic products and the ecological area must take place under market conditions, with public support for conversion, for research, for development, etc. Then we do not think that more nature in agriculture should be reserved exclusively for organic land. We are concerned that it should be possible to tempt all farmers, not just ecologists, to make more nature on their land. Then I have a question which also relates to the proposal: why should agriculture always be small? In other words, there are also large ecological farms which are very much helping to give a boost to conversion. In reality, the proposal involves public support of nature and forest. We have a great deal of sympathy for this, but we think that the money should be spent where it makes the most sense... it can be urban forest, sensitive nature or other criteria... and not where there is more or less random an organic farmer who wants to sell to a land-use fund. So we will therefore be a little harder to tempt to support the proposal. As I have said, this is not because we have any fundamental opposition to the land user fund, but we may want to work with Enhedslisten (Enhedslisten) and now also the Alternative • on how to link it together in other ways.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302180941	There is a brief comment from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302180944	This was surprising, for the SF initially helped to ensure that some things were investigated about state-run land-use funds. With regard to those concerns, I can say that it is not the idea here that the State farm fund buys up a farm and then takes over the entire debt. After all, there has to be a debt relief in connection with a decline in agriculture. Then the fund buys agriculture at a price that allows you to rent it out and make a small profit from that lease. So it is, in fact, a limited risk that is taken here. When we have included in our proposal that we could have a process of buying up agriculture and trying to assess whether some of the land should be taken out of circulation and transferred to nature, etc., then that is something that, for example, has to be done. could be done in cooperation with local waterworks, so that state-owned agricultural land could be reduced with a groundwater protection so that the waterworks could contribute to the removal of some land from rotation. So I see no problem in that, it's just a matter of good planning. I would like to know whether the rapporteur does not see that such things could arise in a state farm fund.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302181058	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302181059	Yes, it may well be, but I also have a large number of other concerns about it, and it is they who do not agree with the final proposal as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302181113	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302181114	This is sometimes the case when there are good proposals that only fail one thing, and that is that you have not made it yourself. That's the way it can be. And then you can always try to find a little hair in the soup, you can always go for it. But I think it is a little too bad, because SF has previously had members who worked very actively for the establishment of state land-use funds. So I hope there are others in the SF who can see that this should enjoy the promotion.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302181140	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302181141	I believe that, with what I have said, I speak at least on behalf of the SF parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302181149	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302181151	But what has changed? This is something that SF has been a driving force for from back in the 1990s onwards, where we had the working group in the Ministry of Food, which highlighted how to create such a foundation structure. What has changed since it is not supported today? There is nothing on the part of the Enhedslisten to promote that agriculture must necessarily consist of small farms. I would just like to emphasise that, as the rapporteur said. We have some very large and impressive organic farms in Denmark. It is Gram Castle, it is Knuthenlund, and there are others who are great and who really are able to show that ecology can do a lot. But my basic question is: what has changed for the SF since this proposal was supported for many years and now it is not supported today?
ParlaMint-DK_20170302181241	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302181242	Well, as I said, we have a position of principle that we want to work on a land-use fund. But I just think that the proposal that is here is too limited. It has been limited to the fact that it is only about ecology. It sets out to give priority to forestry and nature in precisely the farms included in the fund, and it envisages that farms should be smaller. In any case, that is how I read the motion for a resolution as it stands. After all, the old SF proposal dealt with the whole of agriculture and the opportunities for young farmers to enter agriculture, and it also provided some financing opportunities, such as: also referred to the fact that one could have bonds in this fund and that it did not necessarily have to have run one hundred percent of the state.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302181339	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302181340	I believe that in the last contribution we made to the report together on a similar proposal, ecology was also at the heart of the issue. But we can, of course, talk about how we can land something that we can all see ourselves in the committee even if the SF has changed its position a few years ago, and that is quite legitimate. But the fact that you want to use the agriculture that we own together to promote climate and nature and the environment does not mean that you do not think that it should be so everywhere else. It is just to say that if we own something together, it is clear that we also have to raise more social benefits with those farms than that it should just be purely one-eyed production.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302181420	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302181421	I understand that you are also open to opening up this land-use fund that it should not only apply to organic farming. That's it, isn't it? It's just that you can say that there are multiple purposes. A land-use fund should not have as its sole purpose to support the conversion to ecology, because I think that we have a lot of other good tools to support, but it should at all allow for investment in agriculture in some other ways.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302181456	Thank you to Mrs Trine Torp of the SF. And the last rapporteur is Mr. Orla Østerby of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302181508	Thank you. First of all, I would like to say that the proposal here, B 59, cannot be supported by the Conservative People's Party and, above all, that we are in favour of a market-driven development of ecology, where it is the farmers and the market that decide, in interaction, whether or not to run a farm ecologically. What we know now is that from 2017 to 2020, and in fact, the application has started in 2016, it is being converted to ecology for 1.2 billion. kr. This is something that looks like 45,000 hectares. So it is not the case that we are lying completely still in Denmark and not changing to ecology. I can also promise you that organic farmers do not want the state to start setting up funds that invest in organic farming, in other words in a market that is sensitively understood in the sense that the market must be such that it can be reduced to the prices that are now in organic farming. Because we can easily take the air out of this, if that's what we want. Then there is much concern for Danish agriculture that there will be no one left in ten years' time. I can say hello to you and say that I think there certainly is. Danish agriculture has a high quality, there are plenty of development, there are young farmers who are very, very skilled. These farmers must be allowed to run their farms quietly, and we must not make proposals to shake their production by putting state money into agriculture. There are already a number of foundations and the like that are clapping over with this proposal: The Danish Nature Fund, The Growth Fund, Danish Agricultural Capital, Denmark's Organic Agricultural Fund and others. What I find exciting is if mr. Simon Kollerup might at some point have to become the Minister for the Environment and Food in the new government. Then he will see that there is a green card in the drawer that Enhedslisten will pull up. I think it is exciting to hear today from the parliamentary basis that what the new government is going to start with is converting Danish agriculture into ecology. It'll be exciting to see. I just have to say that on the conservative side we cannot support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302181811	There is a brief comment from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302181814	Right now we have a structural development in Danish Agriculture that goes only one way: towards fewer and fewer farms. And a very simple projection has been made which says that if you continue along that path, you will end up in a very specific place, namely that within a foreseeable timescale there will be only one farm left. I would like to know what proposals the Conservative People's Party is going to make to stop this structural development, because that is what is happening on its own right now. So I would also like to know: when the rapporteur says that there are no ecologists that I heard what is going to think this is a good idea, then the rapporteur speaks on behalf of all Danish organic farmers, or how is that to be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20170302181852	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302181853	What I said was that there are no Danish ecologists who want us to destroy the market by extending organic farming to a size which will destroy the market forces surrounding organic products. Then we have not benefited anything. As to whether Danish agriculture will be phased out over the next 10 years, I can only repeat that this is not what we are facing. If we now turn our attention to fishing, just briefly, I can say that I am close to fishing, including in Thyborøn. And there were also many doomsday prophecies that fishing would go downstairs and home, and that in a few years' time we would be there where we would have no Danish fishing at all. I can say that Danish fishing is doing very well at the moment and that fishing has some of the best prices you have had for a long time because you deliver quality products. I am sure that Danish agriculture has done the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302181953	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302181955	In other words, fisheries have gone the same way: fishing rights and the number of people employed have become fewer and fewer. It is the same thing that happens in Danish agriculture. But I would like to know who shares the analysis that if you make a land-use fund and convert part of Danish agriculture into ecology under a new ownership, you break up the market. I think it is a rather violent analysis in a situation where both in Denmark and on export markets it goes only one way very quickly: against massively greater demand. So that's just the analysis I'd like to question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302182040	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302182041	The analysis I am presenting comes from an interview that was on TV 2 with an organic farmer who made it clear that one should be careful how to make this grow because the market should be able to take off the goods. I repeat: from 2017 to 2020 we are converting to organic farming for 1.2 billion. kr. of taxpayers' money. That's good. That's 45,000 hectares of extra farmland. It is good that we should just be careful not to destroy that market for the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302182115	Thank you, sir. Orla Østerby. And the Rules of Procedure say that when it is a motion for a resolution, the rapporteur for the authors of the motion has the right to the last word, and that is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302182128	Thank you for that and thank you for the debate on Enhedslisten's proposal to set up a state ecological land-use fund. A great deal has been said about the proposal, but the purpose of the motion for a resolution from the Enhedslisten is to oblige the government to set up an ecological land-use fund in accordance with the same model as the Danish Green Investment Fund and with the aim of purchasing agricultural property. The main principles of the Fund's purchase of property must be that the property must be transferred to organic farming no later than one year after purchase, that the property must be leased to farmers under long-term contracts, that the property be leased out with more detailed clauses to meet the desire for a greater balance between agriculture and the rest of the community, and that the amount of land purchased must be assessed for the amount of land to be allocated to natural and forest land before they are leased away. We have put forward this proposal because we believe that the crisis in agriculture is not resolved through the blue block agricultural package. New forms of ownership need to be developed to make it easier for young farmers to get started. A government land-use fund can help young farmers to lease a farm without creating a huge debt. The land-use fund can become a new instrument to ensure more natural areas, more afforestation and a more targeted effort to secure groundwater. We welcome the fact that more initiatives have been taken for land-use funds. On Samsø, an ecological land-use fund has been established and started by purchasing farmland and has ambitions to purchase 40 hectares. Denmark's Nature Conservation Association has just created Denmark's Organic Earth User Fund, so that name has been taken. So if anyone is confused that this resolution has the same heading, then we have to come up with a new name, because Denmark's Organic Earth User Fund is It is founded by the Danish Nature Conservation Association in collaboration with the Danish Organic Landsforening. So it is, of course, an organization for ecologists that has helped to set up a fund which aims to bring together 100 million. kr. to buy up agricultural land, which then has to be organically operated. We think this is a very good initiative and we hope it will be a huge success. It will be very exciting to follow, because it may indicate whether fund formations in a slightly larger perspective than what is on Samsø can be part of the solution. It is not to belittle Samsø, because it is actually quite nice that on an island where there are less than 5 000 people, you can collect 3 million. kr. Into and buy up farming and lease it out to some young people who then move to the island and help ensure agricultural production and sustainable farming on a farm that has been run ecologically for many years. We in the Enhedslist expect this proposal to be taken even more seriously than it is today when we come to negotiate a financial bill with a social democratic government, which is why, of course, I have also noted what has been said today. However, I think it is important to see this in the perspective that we need to come up with more solutions for young farmers to get started without debt. It will typically be the case that if you have to buy a farm as a young farmer, you have to come with 20 per cent yourself. of the capital. It's just a small farm for $5 million. kr., the young person should have a savings of 1 million. kr. to get started becoming self-employed. I understand that some people choose other professions. If you are in the craftsman's business, you can buy a used van and a screw machine, and you are in the middle of a carpenter's mastership. However, if you are going to enter the agricultural industry, there are capital requirements that are quite unfairly high. I think it is exciting when new opportunities arise; when opportunities arise for foundations to own land and lease it out to farmers. It could be on long-term agreements. It may also be on agreements that we have seen in South Jutland, where AP Pension has bought up some farms, and where the lease has included the possibility of the farmer buying the land at a later stage. It's written into the contract. Many land-use funds can be created, and some of the land-use funds can be locally run like the one we've seen on Samsø. I really wish that there were many more people who took the initiative on something similar to what has been done on Samsø. This can help create more rural life. This can help to ensure that more farms can be maintained. If you go to the website of Samsø's ecological land-use fund, it's all there. There are statutes for how to knit it together and how to create an association that helps ensure that there is a popular commitment to the fund that is responsible for official ownership. So I think we are seeing some perspectives at the moment that are pointing in the right direction. I also think there is good reason to be inspired by what is going on in the world. I may not be sure that we can reach a majority by going abroad with the Liberal Alliance, but sometimes you can learn something from going out and looking at the world. I think we learned something from being in Spain and looking at GMO production, and we also landed an agreement here in the Danish Parliament, where a unanimous Parliament slowed down a little and said that if applications for GMO cultivation are to be processed in Denmark, they must pass the committee so that we can look at what is in process. So committee trips can sometimes help to reach good conclusions. So I will not quite refuse to go to Africa with Carsten Bach and look at the organic farming that is doing incredibly well and is seen there as a way to grow more food. So I think we should be completely open to finding new solutions, because with the agriculture we have in Denmark and with the debt that agriculture has, new solutions need to be found. And I believe that land-use funds can be part of the future that we are looking into.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302182744	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Carsten Bach. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302182747	Thank you very much. I'm already looking forward to that trip, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen and the undersigned shall have, to Africa. I can tell you that I am actually going to Africa next week. I don't know if sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen is coming with us. However, I would like to follow up at least one of the questions raised by the rapporteur for the authors of the motion during this debate. This is, of course, something that is going to be out in the very, very distant future, and with the principles of Enhedslisten's rotation, etc. It's not at all certain that Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen is in the Folketing at that time. However, it was with regard to the comment on the demands that the Enhedslisten will make in the financial negotiations with the next Socialist-led government. I just wanted to make sure that I heard what it was, too, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen said. Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen really, that Enhedslisten's first and perhaps also greatest demand for a future Finance Act under a Social Democratic government will be the purchase of farmland for 50 million. kr.?
ParlaMint-DK_20170302182906	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302182908	In other words, it will always be the case that when Enhedslisten has to negotiate finance law with a social democratic government, we have both red and green requirements. We have a long tradition of that. And if you look at the three financial agreements we made with the former Socialist-led government, you can see that there were always some green fingerprints that were Enhedslisten's. Denmark's Green Investment Fund is one of the fingerprints we've got on reality and it works out there. The proposal we are making here is, in fact, a proposal to create a construction which is similar to the Danish Green Investment Fund, but which simply intends to buy agricultural land. So, in a financial bill debate, we will only get through the creation of such a fund, and then a little money will be set aside for it, and then it will get started. So it is not because it is an ultimate demand; it is just a good proposal that we will take up the drawer together with other proposals and go to negotiations with.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302183005	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302183006	Thank you for your answer. It was nice to get that clarification too. On another question, as Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen asked earlier in the debate here, I will follow up with a question and ask whether Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen does not believe that it is appropriate to have some form of local democracy in Denmark, where decision-making is as close to the citizen as possible, and that the Folketing should not regulate the Danish population in detail.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302183036	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302183037	Well, we are also in favour of the municipalities having a lot of influence, and there are also municipalities that own farmland, you might say, if we like to stay within this theme. There are actually a number of municipalities that own agricultural land and some of them have chosen to lease it out on ecological terms. Among other things, they do. done in Aalborg and Odense, and in Aarhus you lease it out on condition that it is driven spray-free. So there, on the basis of a city council majority, one has arrived at some local anchoring, just as the decision that state agricultural land should be operated spray-free is something that is anchored during the period when Svend Auken was the Minister for the Environment and one laid that line. So there is democracy in some decisions on the promotion of ecology.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302183120	Mrs Lise Bech, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302183124	I just want to ask: How much of the Danish farmland does Enhedslisten think the state should own?
ParlaMint-DK_20170302183133	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302183135	I don't want to put any figures on that. We see it as a great advantage that there are municipalities that own farmland. We also think it is good that there are private initiatives that make land-use funds, just as the Danish Nature Conservation Association has taken the initiative here, and hopefully will be able to own agricultural land for 100 million. We think that's great. So we don't have such a list. We can only see that with what happens in Financial Stability, where some farms are sometimes handled, there is an opportunity for those farms to be taken and said: are there some of these areas that we can get more out of if we check if there is not something that should be natural land? In other words, if it would not be advantageous for our groundwater to have some more forest planted, that we should be active in planning rather than financial stability just handling something and dealing solely with the economics. So that's what a state ecological land-use fund could do, and we think that's an extra plus in this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302183228	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302183231	Private initiative is always welcome. Then the rapporteur said a whole lot of things that I think are totally unnecessary, but I did not get an answer to what I asked.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302183240	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302183243	No. That's because I don't have a list. I have more than one goal that I think the community should own more land. I'm not gonna stand here and tell you if it's gonna be 1⁄2%. I think it is just as good that it is municipalities that own organic farmland as it is the state. I think it's a better tooth for it to happen locally. So we do not have a fait accompli here, but what I am saying is that we need to take advantage of the opportunity that exists when there are cracked farms that pass Financial Stability, and there is, in that sense, an opportunity that, with a State land-use fund, we could get something extra out of it, and that is the clear answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302183321	Thank you, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen. No one else has reported on the field with brief comments. Nor does anyone else seem to have asked for the floor in general, and that is why the negotiations have been concluded. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170302183344	All I have left to say is thank you to everyone for today's work in the service of the people's regime. Because there's nothing left to do at this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday, 3 March 2017, at 3 pm. 10:00. I refer you to the agenda, which appears on the Danish Parliament's website.
