ParlaMint-DK_20171130100021	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Education (Merete Riisager): Bill no. L 113 (Proposal for a law amending the law on institutions for general upper secondary education and general adult education, etc.) Minister for Health (Ellen Trane Nørby): Bill no. L 114 (Proposal for a law on ionizing radiation and radiation protection. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl (DF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 43 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the introduction of compulsory Danish-language subjects in English-language courses in Denmark). Titles on notified cases will appear at www. Parliamentstidende.dk. above). The Minister for Education and Research (Søren Pind) has informed me that he wishes to do so in accordance with Article 19 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 to provide the Danish Parliament with a written statement on the research and innovation area 2017. R 5). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in www.folkingstidende.dk. The statement will be debated on Thursday 14 December 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130100134	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130100157	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 107 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), 0 abstentions 0]. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130100231	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130100257	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 89 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF) voted against 15 (EL and ALT), [no votes for or against 0]. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130100338	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130100358	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 106 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) [on the other hand, 0 abstained]. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130100428	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130100445	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 105 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) [on the other hand, 0 abstained]. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130100514	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130100533	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130100558	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130100614	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 97 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 9 (EL), [no votes for or against 0]. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130100647	The debate is primarily concerned with the proposed amendments. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendments has ended and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130100716	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1 and 2 by the Minister for Industry as adopted. They are adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130100726	The debate then concerns the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the bill? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130100734	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. For voting 107 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF, KF), [against 0 abstentions 0.] The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130100805	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130100818	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. For voting 93 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, KF), against voting 13 (EL and SF), [no votes for or against 0.] The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130100845	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130100905	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. For voting 107 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF, KF), [against 0 abstentions 0.] The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130100933	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130100948	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. For voting 107 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF, KF), [against 0 abstentions 0.] The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130101018	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130101038	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 82 (S, DF, V, LA, KF) voted against 24 (EL, ALT, RV, SF), [no votes for or against 0.] The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130101107	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130101125	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 107 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130101149	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130101212	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 107 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130101238	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130101258	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, to be elected by the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. Then people must be leaving the Chamber and having finished speaking so that I can proceed with the agenda in good order. I'm gonna need a little more quiet now. People should have left the hall and finished talking. I actually took a break if you noticed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130101426	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130101450	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, to be elected by the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill proceed to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130101505	There still needs to be more quiet in the Chamber. No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130101546	The debate is open. Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130101608	Thank you. With L 100, it is possible for landowners to more easily secure their houses and do so with greater method freedom. First of all, I consider it relevant to comment that the government is presenting the bill as part of the implementation of this year's economic agreement between the government and the KL. This may be technically correct, but if you read the agreement, you will see that the National Association of Municipalities has not signed or approved a number of the coastal protection measures that the government is proposing. They are therefore only written into the agreement as elements for which the government will take the initiative independently. This fact was clarified when, during the consultation phase of the present proposal, KL criticised the fact that the government would write natural considerations and considerations of coastal landscape out of the coastal protection law. In this respect, I note that I welcome the fact that the government has taken away the criticism, among others. KL, Denmark's Nature Conservation Association, but also the Social Democratic Party note and adapted the bill, so that today it appears more balanced at the time of the discussion, and so that nature considerations and consideration of the coastal landscape are again included in the bill. In view of climate change, it is sensible and necessary that we, as the Folketing, should open up a better opportunity to protect one's property in the coast. Thus, the Social Democrats are immediately in favour of the proposal, although we have a number of concerns and concerns that I expect and hope we can have room to discuss in committee work. Thus, it is essential for the Social Democrats that coastal protection facilities should not become an excuse to prevent the legal right of the public to travel along the coast. As mentioned above, it is positive and crucial for the social democracy's support for the bill that nature considerations and the overall consideration of coastal landscape remain some of the considerations to be taken into account when assessing an application for coastal protection. However, it remains unclear whether the interpretation of landscapes and nature by the law is based on the current broad interpretation, or whether the interpretation is changed to a narrower definition of the protected nature of the EU. Here it is crucial that the Minister clearly indicates during the committee procedure that the law applies the same broad definition of nature as the law does today. I look forward to discussing this important piece of legislation that opens up the coast protection and more of the necessary coastal protection. After all, it is quite obvious that coastal protection in relation to land is the responsibility of the landowner. However, I also believe that it must be clear to everyone when you look into the climate scenario and climate change that is a reality that, over the years, there will then be a greater need for coastal protection, including coastal protection projects beyond what a landowner or a municipality will be able to handle. That is why I think we are doing well today to take a positive view of this bill, but I am also reasonably convinced that this bill and other government initiatives are not enough. In the long run, we will have to discuss how we can get the state to play a more active role in relation to major coastal protection projects and how, overall, we can have coordinated coastal protection efforts, and it is also my belief that it would be wise, through a coastal fund, to allow the state to take greater financial responsibility for the very large coastal protection projects that I believe will be necessary in the future. With those comments, I look forward to the examination of the legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130101934	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pia Adelsteen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130101939	Thank you. As the previous rapporteur said, this is an agreement that the government has made with KL in connection with the economic agreement for next year. When you read the written speech, it is clear that the purpose of coastal protection will be changed, so that there will be a greater degree of freedom of method in relation to the choice of coastal protection. Another thing that changes is this famous 25-year rule. It has been the case in the past that if they considered by the Coastal Directorate that there was no risk in the next 25 years, they received per year. automatic refusal to protect its property and its values, whether that assessment in some places later turned out to be wrong. It is being completely removed, and that is also very positive. It has been pointed out that gardens and agricultural land can now be protected. In the past, it was necessary to assess whether it was of sufficient value for the establishment of coastal protection. Then there will also be the possibility of making new experiments. This is all relatively positive. But when I go down like this and read the bill itself, I have to say that I am almost left with more questions than I had hoped for. Unlike the Social Democrat rapporteur, I do not think it is very good that we are always saying that the landscapes must now be taken into account. That is not why we have a coastal protection law. A coastal protection law is, in my view, a law to go in and help people look after their things. Then some consideration must be taken into account and, of course, we should not be able to do some projects that affect others, and we understand that. But to sit constantly and say that we must take account of the shape of the landscapes, and I do not know what, is something of which I certainly do not understand very much, and it is the same with the fact that it has to be done on the basis of an overall assessment. There we are in the Danish People's Party a little bit skeptical. We are because we have been working for such a long time for us to amend the coastal protection law and for us to have greater freedom of method. We must help those who lose their property; we must give greater freedom. And in the eyes of the Danish People's Party, as long as we have the agreement that it is the citizens themselves who have to pay for the protection they want, they must also, for that matter, continue to choose for themselves what they want. If they think it helps to stick a pipe into the sand, then for my sake no alarm; if they think that you can do an ice age project that we have seen in Gilleleje we have in committee been out driving and it helps, then for my sake no alarm as long as it doesn't bother others. Then we can talk about big visions about doing something national, about big projects, foundations, etc. To this extent, we are not sceptical about this, but as the rules are now, when it is the citizens themselves who have to pay, they must also be the ones who decide what it should be. What worries me a little, now that I'm reading the bill itself, is that there is, for example. severe coastal protection may be refused if sand-feeding is not carried out at the same time. It's on page 10 of the bill, second column at the bottom. A tough solution can also still be rejected by referring to public access to the beach and along the coast. And that's hard to understand. I understand there must be access to the beach. We all want that. But if there is a stone-sloping protection and if everything else in front disappears, so that you cannot walk on the stand, then I do not think it is a problem as such. I don't think so. I find that somewhat difficult to see at least in relation to the alternative being that there is a house falling into the sea. Then it may well be that you want access to the beach, but after all there must be some consideration there. I also think it may be a little bit worrying that the Coastal Directorate is still providing so-called guidance. I am well aware that there is no immediate mention of the fact that the municipalities are obliged to follow these guidelines, and that is actually very good, but it is also widely known, I would say especially for such an old councillor as myself and it is well known that when authorities ask for advice, the council is usually followed. This may concern me a little bit, because the Coast Directorate may not be what I have the utmost confidence in. So I would say that there are a number of questions. On the other hand, I think that we should take a positive view. I think that this draft law, together with the amendment that is being made to the law on plans, which we also support, offers some opportunities, and we certainly need to take advantage of those opportunities. So we have a positive approach, but I do have a number of questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130102507	There is a question from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130102512	I have such a desire to ask the rapporteur some questions after this speech. I should like to ask whether the rapporteur can put a few more words on the freedom of method in the case of severe coastal protection. What, in the rapporteur's view, is it so concrete that we can see what people should be allowed to do in front of their buildings and down on a beach? And isn't the rapporteur concerned that it can discredit the access of others to the beach on the one hand and the experience of being there on the other if there are completely random and individually selected hard coastal protection methods on vulnerable coastlines on the other?
ParlaMint-DK_20171130102556	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130102557	No, I'm not worried. I know that the Danish Nature Conservation Association has conducted a campaign that says that you can almost tilt off a landfill on the beach, because then you have a protection. But we have never agreed to that, and that is not going to happen. So I don't give much for that campaign. But that is why I am a little pleased with the question, because then you can give a very clear answer. It is clear that when you make a slope protection, it must have some sort of appearance. But I think most Danes are used to seeing very large stones as a slope protection. I believe that most Danes do not know that there are 25 km of hard coastline from Søndervig and north, which is actually made of concrete. But it's just sand on it. Nobody knows, but it's there, and it works. So when you say that we have these great untouched shores, it's a truth with modifications, you have to say. And I shall not sit and judge whether anything is nice or not; taste is different from person to person. I would also like to see access to the beaches, of course. There are places in North Zealand where it is very, very difficult to get around. But I can also understand if citizens sit and are very concerned that their houses fall into the water and that they want to be allowed to do something.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130102716	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130102719	Now I'm not talking about the Danish Nature Conservation Association. I am very interested to hear exactly what the rapporteur is thinking. So if you are allowed to use stone or build a wall, is it the rapporteur's view that you should try to cover it up so that it fits into the landscape, or is it something that you can individually choose to do and so change the landscape and the expression of our nature? I think that exactly that part of the debate is incredibly important, because taste and pleasure are, after all, individual. Well, I don't mind making pipes if you pay for them yourself, but they're hidden. So can the rapporteur clarify whether one should make this kind of tough coast protection so that it fits into the landscape and try to hide it in one way or another?
ParlaMint-DK_20171130102804	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130102806	Now big stones can be hard to hide, and then we can ask the citizens to spend a lot of money putting sand on, which then disappears • now that there is a little wind and a little wind and a little water, the sand disappears very quickly. So you can say that this is an operational cost which can be quite expensive for the citizens who live in those places. So, no, I'm not necessarily in favour of covering everything up with sand. I think what is important is that people are allowed to protect their properties and their values. I do not have an exhaustive list of what to do and what not to do, but when I refer to the Danish Nature Conservation Association, it is of course with reference to the campaign that has been running on waste.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130102848	Mrs Trine Torp, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130102850	It just gave me the opportunity to follow up on a question in order to clarify it a little, because I actually thought it was some very good questions that Enhedslisten's rapporteur asked. Where does the Danish People's Party limit what kind of coastal protection can be used, and what can make the Danish People's Party's rapporteur weight, for example? nature considerations or social considerations such as: equal access to the beach?
ParlaMint-DK_20171130102927	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130102928	Straight access to the beach I think I've told you there should of course be. But I have also said that if you want to make a slope protection and the whole beach is gone in winter, then it is quite difficult to go there. I just want to say that, that's the reality. You can do that, for example. Take a trip up to Liselej and look out in front of a coastal road. There is slope protection, and when there has been a storm, there is not much beach to go on. It's a little difficult to walk on these big rocks, but I think it's okay that they've been allowed to make the stones, because otherwise their houses will fall into the water. So that is clearly a balance. Nor do I object to the protection of the coast, which is on a stretch of 25 kilometres out on the West Coast, which is then pumped with sand. Nobody knows it's there, but it's there. But it is also the state that is co-financing all that sand-feeding over there. It's not necessarily somewhere else. So we have to keep looking at what we can demand of the citizens they have to pay, in relation to the fact that they must of course have a right to protect their property and values.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130103029	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130103031	So just follow-up: what will the rapporteur not do?
ParlaMint-DK_20171130103037	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130103038	Actually, I don't know. Yeah, I don't want to help you just throw old bricks and stuff on the beach, I don't want to. It must be proper projects and it must also be something that works.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130103052	Then it's mr. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130103056	Thank you. I pressed in because there suddenly became such a focus on what the Danish People's Party rapporteur thinks is the limit to what good and proper coastal protection is and is not. However, my view is that the Danish People's Party's view is that the change we are entering with, among other things. this bill and several other initiatives, which have also been taken by the government with the support of, among others, The Danish People's Party, of course, means that in future coastal protection must be more locally anchored, that it must be decided locally in the municipalities, in the various municipal councils, with guidance from the Coastal Directorate. Will the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party not agree with me that many of these projects are, in fact, much better anchored out locally, where you know what it is necessary to adapt coastal protection to the surrounding environment, nature, city, port, etc.?
ParlaMint-DK_20171130103200	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130103202	Yeah, I totally agree. I think it is very good with the agreement that has been made, where it is just out locally, you find out what to do. Then we will also avoid situations such as those we are dealing with. so it in Hjørring Municipality, where some citizens wanted to create a coastal protection project. The Coast Directorate asked the municipality: What do you say? And the hearing answer was: we do not really think they should be allowed to do so. When the houses fell into the water, all the local politicians stood up and could feel sorry for the fact that all the houses had fallen into the water, but had, as I see it, contributed to it themselves. So yes, I'm really glad that it's anchored locally because you know it, and I'm also really glad that we're also making that change in the planning law, where you give it here the opportunity, like working coastal protection with climate change, to look at how to do it and adapt it to local conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130103250	Then it's mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130103255	Thank you. The Danish People's Party has previously been in the Chamber with a motion for a resolution that a coastal fund should be set up and that a greater degree of state funding should be provided for some of the slightly larger coastal protection projects, projects where it is quite obvious that it covers many municipalities, companies and citizens and it has a complexity and an economic gravity which means that it is quite obvious that it cannot be dealt with by municipalities and landowners themselves. Such a proposal has, of course, been the result of the Social Democrats without being too specific, because it is clear that it is the expertise that has to decide what it is then for some major projects that we need to get started when we look into a scenario where climate change means rising water levels. And we have also left it up to the parties to discuss how to finance it. You can imagine both ordinary finance law funding, but also insurance funding, as you know from the Storm Council and the like. It is somewhat unclear where the Danish People's Party is currently on that issue, and it would be very helpful if the Danish People's Party continued to stand by their previous resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130103403	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130103404	Thank you. I would say that I wish I could find all the money in the Finance Act... that would be nicely easy and that the coast protection was a national matter. We always thought so in the Danish People's Party, because Denmark is a country with a lot of islands. A coastal fund can be a way of doing this, and I would like to say that we would also like to be open to discussing what can be done. But I would also like to say that it should not be such a place where only large projects are approved, while something else is rejected. In other words, you have to get in there and make those very big visionary national action plans, and as I see it in relation to coastal protection, I believe that it is much, much better that it gets out locally. When it becomes national, it will also be a lot like that, well, but my God, not so much happens because it is just a place where it does not really have much meaning and where there may not be so many people. There I actually like the idea that it will then be locally anchored and locally decided. So yes, we are open to discussion, but I also have some reservations that the rapporteur can certainly hear.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130103515	Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130103517	We also have a lot of reservations and questions. This isn't an easy matter. We just have to note that we are looking into a situation where the water is rising and there will be a need for projects, which I think most people can see goes beyond what the municipalities can handle. I think we agree on that. At least that's what it sounds like. I am not saying that the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party should come up with a money tree either. We have to look at that, and there are different ways of financing it. It can be through the Finance Act as well as other things. But if we agree that there should be a discussion of this among the parties, should we not use the majority we are sitting on and ensure that the government actually calls these discussions?
ParlaMint-DK_20171130103553	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130103554	I think it can be really, really nice to talk about it. But what I am pleased about this proposal and also the earlier one on the law of plans is that something is actually happening. I mean, we've been talking coast protection all the time I've been in Parliament and I've been doing that for 10 years and nothing has happened. The coastal protection law that we are actually amending was adopted in 2006 • The Danish People's Party is not part of the • so it has existed for 11 years, and as it is, it is not because something has happened out there. People have just lost their properties, but with this proposal something is actually happening. I would like to speak to the fund and I would like to see if we can do something, but that does not mean that we have to change this proposal, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130103637	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then there are no further comments and comments. Then it's mr. Erling Bonnesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130103650	Thank you. We have more than 7,000 km of coastline in Denmark, and no matter where you are, you are a maximum of 50 km from the coast. The coasts are the epitome of Denmark, and we all know that the coasts are unique, and we like the ones we care about them, and therefore we must also protect them and ensure that we still have them and that they can survive. We are also part of a time when climate change has a major impact on the weather. There is global warming and coastal erosion and sometimes also some floods, so there are also some challenges to address. Coastal protection is therefore more important than ever before, and new methods for protecting the coasts, including the protection of buildings, are of course welcome. So it is good that with this bill we are now, so to speak, getting something done about it and given the opportunity. So far, our legislation has slowed down part of it, and this bill must then help to open up more possible solutions. You could also say that there are several different handles to pull in. It will also be good, because the challenges are different around us. The draft law also provides, it might be said, more freedom of choice between new and untested coastal protection methods, even more so-called tough coastal protection, where this would be the right thing to do. The draft law provides a better framework for carrying out coastal protection in the way that citizens, too, want to do in several places. It is clear that we know quite locally what the challenges are and where the shoe, so to speak, is pressing. After all, they also have a lot of good ideas about what needs to be done in concrete terms. However, coastal protection methods still have to take into account possible damage to buildings, or they could be said to be a collision with social interests. At the same time, the draft law provides for the possibility that the coastal protection law now also applies to real estate in a slightly broader sense, including unbuilt land, cultivated land, etc. This amendment to the coastal protection law helps to ensure the coasts and buildings to a greater extent than in the past, and it is also very good that there is more local influence. This will provide better local solutions. So we will have greater protection for the Danish unique coasts, and the Left will, of course, vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130103923	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130103930	Thank you. Now we have another legislative proposal which relates to the climate change we are in the middle of and the changes we are experiencing as a result of climate change, and which, among other things, include: is that the water level is rising in our seas and we will experience more violent storms and thus also more floods of our coasts and our coastal areas. We fully agree that coastal protection is extremely important. That is also why we have tabled a motion for a resolution on precisely this one back a year ago, when we made our proposal on how best to ensure coastal protection, which takes into account the general national social considerations and ensures coherent coastal projects. We are very critical of the legislative proposal that lies here, because we believe that consideration of landscape and nature is being downgraded. We are very concerned that municipalities and individual pilot owners are given the opportunity to choose their own individual solutions, including: tough coast protection. That is at least what we are concerned about, namely that you will use harsh coastal protection • it may be stone, it may be a wall, it may be a variety of options • which in turn will affect nature and the landscape negatively for all the many, many people who come to our beaches and our coastal areas to experience them, to be in them and to enjoy nature and the landscape. So these are the critical remarks. I have a number of questions for the Minister, among others. about the fact that you take landscape and nature and remove it from the law's independent purpose and put it somewhere else. What it will have practical consequences, I cannot fully read from the draft law as it stands here. What we also fear is that we will see very chaotic conditions in coastal areas with some and there will also be all sorts of weird solutions that we cannot predict today that can then be played out on our coasts. So basically, we think this is opening up to chance and a wild West, which we are very, very critical of. It is not about the fact that we do not think that coastal protection is important. We think that coastal protection is extremely important, but it is so important that we see it as having to think things together across the interests of individual landowners, across the individual municipal interests, and as some coherent projects, where we also, on the part of the state, go in and prioritise what we should choose to protect the coast and what we should choose not to protect the coast. It is also an active choice to say: we then choose not to protect the coast in this area. And if there is someone who needs a helping hand in living somewhere else, then we must also be ready to help. And when I talk to some of the people who are affected by this, what they really want is a clarification of what is going to happen. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130104301	Thank you. Then there's a question. Mrs Pia Adelsteen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130104305	Thank you. I just have one question about the rapporteur's remark that this will open up to chance and the Wild West, I think it was. I have a little story from Nørlev Strand, where in 2008 they sought to make slope protection and got no for then in early 2017, I think it was to get yes to the same project, because the Coast Directorate had now changed practice. Is that the same thing as coincidence and the Wild West, or what? Because this is quite the same project that was rejected in 2008, but after at least 26 houses have fallen into the water, you get a yes. Isn't that a coincidence too?
ParlaMint-DK_20171130104358	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130104400	I do not know whether the concrete example is a real coincidence. I am referring to the legislative proposal which opens up the possibility for individual municipalities to choose a wide range of different solutions so that individual landowners can apply some methods. I am concerned that it will pass the problem on to the neighbours. I am concerned that they are the municipalities and landowners who can afford coastal protection, which will also receive coastal protection, whereas those who cannot afford it will not receive coastal protection. And I am worried that the municipalities will have a completely different practice in this area, so some will experience that they may be allowed to make tough coastal protection with stones, walls and all sorts of things in the world, while others may not be allowed to do so, because the municipality is currently giving higher priority to natural and landscape considerations in coastal areas. That is the coincidence that I am very, very critical of.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130104453	Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130104455	I would like to drill a little bit more into this, because different solutions already exist, so I simply do not understand what Enhedslisten's rapporteur means. So, the different solutions you use today are different because it depends on what can be used in the different places and how the sea behaves in the different places. That's why they're different. That's logic for cage hens, I was just about to say. They have to be. So what is it quite concrete that Enhedslisten thinks is awful that it is no longer the Coast Directorate who says yes or no to various projects, but that it is now going on out locally, where, if nothing else, it is reasonably localized? And what are the areas that Enhedslisten will not protect?
ParlaMint-DK_20171130104537	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130104538	As I also started by saying, it is not because we do not think that coastal protection is important and that we do not think that there should be any change. So, as far as I am concerned, the question is not whether we should either maintain the status quo or adopt this bill. That is why we ourselves have tabled a motion for a resolution in the Danish Parliament on how we think it should be done and where we are, and there I think we are actually very much in agreement, taking this approach at national level by proposing the creation of a coastal council and a coastal fund to make this national priority, among other things. in the case of lines which are not to be protected. Because it is not my job to select those sections that have a sense of what, in cooperation with the municipalities, can give priority to those areas, so they say: there is a coastal protection project that extends across many municipalities, and that is what we choose to prioritise together, instead of the individual landowner on the line who has money to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130104628	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130104635	Thank you. Fortunately, in the Liberal Alliance we are not so afraid of diversity, and we almost love the Wild West, I would say. Liberalisations can, fortunately, sneak in everywhere, including in coastal protection. When the bill changes the purpose clause, the individual landowner is given a greater degree of freedom to protect his property, including unbuilt land and agricultural land, and in this way he or she can be coast-proof, as one wants and can be permitted locally. It is clear that the main concern of coastal protection legislation must be the landowners who are constantly in danger of having their property damaged. There are, of course, other considerations that need to be taken into account and that need to be included in the assessment, but it cannot be that it is not the protection of individual property that is a priority. The removal of the 25-year criterion, which other rapporteurs before me have also mentioned, is also of great importance when it comes to applying for coastal protection permits in the future. The practice which has developed, where an application per year is made. automatically refused, if the 25-year criterion is not met, makes it quite unreasonable and administratively very heavy and almost impossible for the individual landowner to obtain a permit, and therefore it is very good that future needs assessments are a single element among many in the overall assessment. It is then only a small selection of an otherwise very fine bill which, overall, makes it easier for the exposed landowners to protect their property from flooding and coastal erosion, and therefore, of course, the Liberal Alliance supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130104834	Thank you. Then we have a new rapporteur, and that is Mr. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130104844	In my view, this proposal goes the wrong way, namely to give the individual homeowner and municipality more powers to implement coastal protection according to their individual and municipal will. I believe that it can be detrimental to our nature and landscape, and also with a high risk of sub-optimisation, that a lot of solutions can be created that do not work, that are ugly, that cause problems for neighbouring areas for the solutions chosen. The alternative, together with the Enhedslisten in the last session, has therefore put forward proposals, which were called B-44, which instead ensure better co-ordination and coordination, among other things. through the establishment of a coastal council and a coastal fund from which funds can be allocated for coherent coastal protection projects and for the preservation of coastal protection areas. That is still the way we think we should go. New and untested methods should, of course, be explored, but it should not be the individual homeowner who should take this responsibility upon himself. This should be done through a priority national effort and managed by the desired coastal council instead. For this reason, the alternative cannot, so far, agree with the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130104954	Then it is Mrs Pia Adelsteen, the Danish People's Party, a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130104957	Thank you. I just need to understand exactly what the alternative wants. Because I understand that you want to create a fund and then you want a national plan, and then you have to implement that plan step by step. And so, no matter that some people are at the end of the list, I was about to say, if anything happens there, it's just too bad. Is that how I'm supposed to understand it? That is one question. The second question is: I understand that you are very concerned about the fact that, for example, you are concerned. to create cross-municipal cooperation so that some coastal protection projects are carried out across municipalities. I also know that up in North Zealand there are three municipalities that have come together and are really trying to do something. But so far they've been together about this for three years, and so far nothing has happened to the houseowners. Is it optimal?
ParlaMint-DK_20171130105047	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130105048	It is precisely this that we see a lot of nonoptimum solutions and processes out there. Our idea is that instead of going the way where municipalities can do what they want, or homeowners can do what they want to do more, we would like to think things over and get experts on the track who go out and look at the areas of landscape eyes, with natural eyes and with the eyes of protection and assess where it is best to be deployed and where it is, homeowners and the way we live and live, must be given priority and where it is that nature should be given priority. It is not the case that you start at one end of Denmark and then finish 20 years later at the other end of Denmark. You will typically make an ongoing priority effort, where you meet and adjust on priority stakes each year and say: Now we have to have an effort here, now it is pressing here. That will be some of what the Coast Council will have to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130105149	Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130105150	What you are proposing, I do not see very different from what we have had with the Coast Directorate. I am well aware that the Coast Directorate may not have exactly made a plan of where things are going to take place. But at least they have had a fairly great influence on who has been allowed to do something and who has not been allowed to do anything. Everything else has to be recognised as being equal. And competence, we are also constantly told about how coastal protection is to take place, so apparently also always lies with the Coast Directorate, never with anyone else. My point is that if that is what the Alternative and Enhedslisten want, we are certainly not in the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130105237	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130105238	We'd like a coastal council and a coastal fund that's been planned together. One of the ideas of this is that you also have some money to work with, so that you can go out and prioritize based on a professional basis, which the Coastal Council works with continuously, for how the money can be spent of course in some co-financing locally, but thus prioritised from a more professional approach. It's kind of the core of the way we think.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130105300	Are there any further comments? Here you go, Mrs. Mette Abildgaard, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130105315	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. The alternative as a party speaks a lot about the fact that you have three bottom lines: the economic, the social and the environmental or the climate. I would like to try to ask a little bit about this with a coastal council and a coastal fund, because in the extreme, this could mean that it should be the cash aid recipient from Nørrebro who lives in a small enclosed apartment on the fourth floor, who has to pay for coastal protection to the director at Henne Strand, who lives in a 320 m2 villa overlooking the sea every day from his bathtub. Is that right in principle in relation to the logic of this thing with bottom lines, etc.?? My point is that the people who live with a view to the beach are the ones who have the joy of it every single day. They are the ones who experience the value of it. Is it really fair in principle that others should pay for their coastal protection?
ParlaMint-DK_20171130105416	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130105418	It is true that in the resolution we had in last session, B 44, we have proposed funding to increase the statutory part of the insurance. I do not remember exactly what it is called, but therefore a statutory part of the insurance for homeowners. That is to say, it is people with real estate that we are pointing to, just as we must make a small increase in contributions. But we are open to discussing other forms of funding. It is, of course, a very difficult balance between the fact that the individual who has a summer house must pay the entire bill and that there is also a national problem. Of course, we are open to discussing that balance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130105505	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130105507	Thank you for the clarification, in relation to what is the mind behind your proposal. One can say that when it becomes people with real estate, perhaps instead of my example with Nørrebro and the fourth floor it can be the single mother in Rødovre who has just been able to afford to live in the home she now lives in. So I don't have a question. But I just wanted to point out that my point is still the same in relation to who should bear the burden.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130105530	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Ida Auken as rapporteur for the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130105540	For the Radical Left, it is important that we get to grips with coastal protection, and we think that the recommendations that have come from the committee were very good. But it has to be said that in order to create coastal protection in a wise way there must therefore be an overview. There has to be an overall plan. You have to know what you're doing. We should have an idea in Denmark in the individual municipalities of where we would like coasts that can unfold freely. Where do we want tough coast protection? And we should simply be able to talk about, both locally and nationally, what kind of landscape we want to take care of in these changed climate times. The problem with not having an overall plan is also that there can be a lot of neighboring conflicts coming out of this. Imagine that you protect the coast first, because there are some there, and then the beach disappears because the sand blows away. Then the second and third rows get really upset. Or you could imagine making tough coastal protection, which means that people cannot get down to the beach in a place where they were actually entitled to it and access to it. This is something where you may be helping one person, but at the same time you are conflicting with a great many other people and taking away freedoms from them. So just giving one person freedom is not the same as having more freedom. There will be many other people who experience their opportunities and freedom being limited. That is why planning is wise and good because you take in many people's perspective when you find solutions. With today's draft law, we have followed the consultation notes and consultation notes and we have seen that there has been quite a harsh criticism from, among others. The city planners, from the Danish Nature Conservation Association and also partly from Danish Occupation and KL. I can also see that the government has accepted some of this criticism, and I must confess that it is difficult at this stage to say precisely whether it has been met enough to support this proposal. Because we think that there are some things, that is to say, to get some new methods and give the municipalities something more responsibility that is good. However, we are not sure whether we are fully in line with the changes that the government in the response to the hearing will make. So we will follow the committee's proceedings closely and we will then inform you whether we are voting in favour or against.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130105752	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments, and then it is Mrs Trine Torp, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130105758	The SF cannot support this draft law. The law is a problem for coast, nature and landscape in several ways. In the future, coast protection can be ensured without the need for coastal protection being documented. In principle, agricultural land and unbuilt coastlines can also be coastally protected. The second reason is that nature and landscape are taken out of the purpose of the law as an independent consideration, allegedly because there are applicants who think it is unreasonable that nature and landscape should be taken into account. And "Natura 2000" is mentioned in the bill, but not any other protection such as. What is the real reason for this? It is now clear from the draft law that there is no freedom of choice on all shelves when choosing materials for coastal protection, and that is, of course, pleasing. But can the bill expect that farmers and other pilot owners will now become recipients of clean land for building dikes along the Danish coasts without documented need for coastal protection? And then I actually wonder what the consequences might be. Can a refusal to protect the coast mean compensation for the municipalities and, if so, what will it mean for the balance of nature, for free and equal access, etc.? So there are a large number of things that I think call for some committee reading, but also give a high degree of scepticism on the part of the SF. We would, of course, like to see this, and we have also said this before, that we will have a much more comprehensive, coherent and future-proof coastal protection, and I would like to take into account the idea of a coastal protection fund or a climate protection fund, so that we can also include some of the other climate change and the consequences that are of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130105958	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130110003	Thank you. In fact, as a politician, I think that the coastal protection law is one of the hardest things, because we really need to balance between considerations which are all very real and which all deserve priority. When you look at the coastal protection law today, you see that there are these eight considerations that are listed; there are among others. a consideration of the free expression of nature. The free coasts of Denmark are one of the most beautiful things we have, and we have a huge responsibility to look after it and to ensure that it is a gift that we pass on to future generations. But, on the other hand, I also think that everyone, including us politicians here in Christiansborg, is impressed when we have talked to the people who are in the situation where their homes are at risk of going to the sea because both bureaucracy, but also long processing times and all sorts of other things, the rules that they have been screwed up, are blocking the possibility of securing your home. And your home is actually something that is quite important to us Conservatives, because that is what is at the heart of your life, about your family, and I think that, from the outset, you have to go relatively far to protect people's homes. The government's assessment has been that in these eight considerations, which have been listed in the previous legislation, the weighting has become biased. It has been too difficult to be able to ensure coast safety, and I agree with that, and that is why I think what we are doing is very sensible, with the legislative proposal we are now going in and giving better opportunities to be able to be coast-proof with several different methods, as long as we make sure that it does not affect the neighbouring property and as long as environmental and landscape considerations are also taken into account. I think it is very reasonable that this 25-year rule should be abolished, because due care must not be taken by Christiansborg, and I think it is timely care to think about the next generation to which one wants to leave one's property. Then there has been talk about the fact that more land is now also being allowed to be secured by coasts. It may be gardens, it may be agricultural land and other things, and I also think that a little from the previous speaker, Trine Torp, I heard a concern as to whether it would provide a lot of coastal protection that is, as it were, not necessary and which is not needed. I do not really share that concern, and I do not, because financial responsibility still lies with the individual landowners, and that also means, I believe, that one is not willing to invest the money after all, coastal protection costs if not, because there is something that has a real value of protection and that one is willing to give priority to money, because in this respect coastal protection is still away for animals. Frankly, I think it is a better legislative proposal that we are dealing with today than what was initially sent in consultation, and I think it is actually just gratifying that you can always listen to the comments that are coming. KL has among other things: Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a few points in relation to the economic agreement reached with them. It's been adjusted to this bill, and I think that's very sensible. I think that with this bill we find a balance in a difficult matter, because we give priority both to the protection of the individual's home and to the base it constitutes, but not least to the responsibility for protecting our coastal landscape. In those words, the Conservative People's Party backs the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130110332	There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130110338	Thank you. With this draft law, can the rapporteur envisage a situation in which individual landowners are allowed to be shore-proof with stones, with wall construction, in other words, the kind of harsh coastal protection methods that are at risk of desecrating the landscape and our coastal nature quite significantly?
ParlaMint-DK_20171130110402	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130110403	No, I can't imagine that with this bill, it will be possible to shore-proof with things that will desecrate our landscape quite significantly. A question has been raised, for example. from the Danish Nature Conservation Association, whether it will be allowed to simply empty out used building materials and use it as coast protection. And that is one of the points we have made clear in the process that has been, namely that you cannot just do that. So I don't have that concern.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130110425	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130110427	However, as I also had a dialogue with the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, it is of course very individual what you think is disgusting and what you do not think is disconcerting. So if we disregard construction waste and landfill material, but also large boulders or building a wall in fact, does the rapporteur think that this bill opens up that possibility?
ParlaMint-DK_20171130110450	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130110451	Well, now we are making some legislation in here, to which there are also some pieces of legislation which, of course, set a direction, in relation to which direction you go. But I really believe that those who have the greatest interest in caring for the coasts are the municipalities which have large coastlines and who realize that the fact that they have these attractive coastlines is essential for them to attract tourists, to sell summer cottages and everything else. That is why I believe and have a very high degree of confidence that attention will be paid to ensuring that it is not something that is going to desecrate the landscape.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130110523	No one else has asked for brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and move on to the Minister for the Environment and Food. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130110532	Thank you for that, President. I would also like to thank the rapporteurs for their comments. No one can be in any doubt that coastal protection is an issue of interest and concern to many people, and that is why I am also extremely pleased that the government has done this work together with, among others. Danish People's Party, but also KL. For far too many people have slept in the bed at night, when there has been storms, both autumn and winter storm seasons are approaching. And therefore it is essential that the Danes can feel more secure in their own homes. After all, the tools are fighting together with voluntary forces in several places a heroic struggle to keep the water masses away from homes and businesses. Every year we have its storms; last Christmas we had Urd, and most recently we have reached Ingolf. Here again there were Danes who were in a situation where for a few hours they hovered in uncertainty as to whether the next morning could continue to call themselves homeowners. We know that the more powerful storms in the future and the expected rise in the sea can be difficult to change, but these are challenges that we must and must learn to deal with. We can change our legislation so that it is up to date and allows municipalities and citizens to adapt to future climate change in good time and thus be able to sleep safely at night. The government wants citizens to have better opportunities to protect their property in the way they want to do it themselves. We should not dictate which method should be used if there are more equally good solutions. Let me just make it clear straight away: the bill does not propose, as the Danish Nature Conservation Association has mistakenly campaigned against the Danish coasts being protected with construction waste and straw bales. Such solutions are not technically suited to the coast and may in themselves impair the environmental state on the coast. A good solution is a solution that creates security and solves a challenge with erosion or flooding. At the same time, the good solution is marked by the fact that it does not harm the neighbour. Therefore, it is part of the government's agreement with the Municipality's Landsforening on the municipality's finances for 2018 that the government will also change the weighting in the coastal protection law's purpose clause so that landowners can protect in several cases and with increased method freedom. It must be up to the individual citizen to assess how private property should be protected. If you prefer an animal to a cheap solution and when you pay the bill yourself, then the authorities should not question it. The individual citizen's ability to protect his property should also not depend on whether his house will crash into the sea in 25 or 26 years' time, and the government therefore proposes that the 25-year criterion be abolished. The technical and natural and environmental quality of the coastal protection method must continue to be emphasised, but where there are several possible solutions, the landowner must have freedom of choice, provided that a solution does not lead to an undesirable or even negative impact on neighbouring lines. Finally, we are now also giving the opportunity to test new coastal protection methods through experiments, because the government is concerned that we have a regulation of coastal protection in Denmark that meets the needs and wishes of vulnerable landowners. And the bill is a big step in the right direction. As we have seen in cases from Roskilde Fjord, but also elsewhere in the country, there can be years from sketch to action because many different decisions have to be made. That is not appropriate. The next step is therefore a further simplification of the rules for the establishment of municipal holistic solutions, and the government therefore expects to table another bill at the beginning of the new year. I welcome the fact that we now have a legislative proposal that helps to give citizens who are exposed to erosion or flooding the opportunity to re-sleep safely at night. With the bill, the balance has been struck between the consideration of private property, which the government values infinitely high, and the essential social considerations which are also included in the balance sheet. I hope for broad support and therefore look forward to the continued examination of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130110920	There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130110924	I would just like to hear the Minister say what the background is and what the concrete consequences will be of taking nature and landscape into account out of the very purpose of the law itself. This is really something new. What will that mean in practice?
ParlaMint-DK_20171130110941	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130110942	Thank you for the question. In practice, the level of protection will be as it is today.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130110948	Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding for a second brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130110950	But what will it mean for nature and for the landscape? There must be some change when one removes it as an independent element of the purpose of the law. Does it matter to nature and to nature and the countryside?
ParlaMint-DK_20171130111006	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130111008	No, there will continue to be a level of protection as we know it today, but what is the difference is that, in practical reality, the municipalities will have a task in making an assessment on the basis of the assessment that comes from the Coastal Directorate, so that account is taken of both the private property of the citizens and, of course, also of the coasts.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130111027	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130111029	Then I just want to know why it can't be written in the purpose. If that is still the intention, why can it not be at the forefront of the purpose of the law?
ParlaMint-DK_20171130111039	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130111040	Because we have formulated what we have, and the government finds it very fine.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130111046	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130111047	So, if we table an amendment, can we actually just as well get it adopted, because it does not really matter in the Minister's eyes?
ParlaMint-DK_20171130111055	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130111100	We will, of course, first see what that amendment is about more specifically, and then we will assess it accordingly.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130111102	Sir. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130111106	I have to follow up on that too; it sounds strange. If it doesn't matter whether it's there or not, why remove it? There has to be an explanation for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130111119	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130111120	The government has wanted to signal what we wanted to signal with the name of purpose, and that is what we are signalling. Other elements of the bill also show how we ensure the protection of nature and the protection of coastal landscapes.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130111131	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130111132	So this is a signal that nature is being downgraded? Is that how it should be understood, that it is pure signal value, and the signal is that nature is downgraded?
ParlaMint-DK_20171130111144	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130111145	It is a signal that private property must be protected and, given that there are natural considerations, they must also be balanced, as we are doing today.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130111156	No one else has asked for short remarks, and that concludes the debate. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130111215	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130111230	Thank you for the floor. When we deal with L 101, we are dealing with a bill that follows up the amendment of the drinking water notice. The draft law must ensure that municipalities are obliged to notify individual water supplies of their water conditions. In the Social Democratic Party, we believe it is important that the single water supplies, which are no longer subject to mandatory monitoring of drinking water, should be informed of the reduced requirements for quality control of their drinking water. It is essential that they know what good water quality is, so that they can know how to ensure that drinking water is not or is not polluted. That is why the Social Democratic Party supports the proposal. I find it more difficult to understand the need for the change in the drinking water regulation made by the Minister for the Environment without the involvement of the Danish Parliament. In the Social Democratic Party we are pleased that after all the Minister has chosen to listen to our criticism plus the many critical consultation responses. We are pleased that drilling, which provides less than 10,000 litres of water per day, must continue to carry out mandatory checks. As the drinking water notice is now, only single water supplies deliver water to their own household will be exempted from compulsory controls. It is, of course, better than the original intended change, where 400,000 Danes would lose control of their drinking water. However, 40,000 private boreholes supplying drinking water to private households are still exempted from compulsory controls, even though it has been shown that, especially in the smaller private drinking water wells, there is a greater likelihood of contaminated water. This is shown by a study from 2004, which found that in 68 per cent. small water supply plants exceeded the limit values for either pesticides, nitrate or bacteria, including coliforms. Against this background, I find it very difficult to understand that the Minister wants to lower the level of monitoring of the quality of drinking water in private boreholes, and I think that the argument about proximity to the directive is a little weak in this respect. In those words, the Social Democratic Party supports the proposal for the obligation to notify. Of course, if these households are to be exempt from compulsory controls, they must have the best possible information about their drinking water. So we are happy to help clean up the deterioration that we believe the amendment to the regulation is an expression of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130111448	No one has asked for short remarks and we thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pia Adelsteen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130111454	Thank you. After the good review by the previous rapporteurs, I would just like to say that the Danish People's Party supports the proposal. It is really just a power to tell citizens who have a borehole that it would be wise to have it examined from time to time. And I think that's a good thing, so we support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130111519	No one has asked for brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur in the rapporteur's report is Mr. Erling Bonnesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130111526	Thank you. Following on from what has already been said in this area, I can say that this is a quite excellent legislative proposal, which the Left also supports. The proposal has already been explained, so there is no need to do that again. The Left supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130111546	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur in the rapporteur's report is Mr Beazley. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130111551	After listening to the hearings, I would like to say that we are probably down to the fact that this bill is the least in this collection. I do not know if there is such a competition between ministers about who can get the smallest bill passed. But I think it's good that there's something coming out of hearings. I therefore share the concern expressed by the Social Democrats that it is essential that there is some control over drinking water, including in the very small wells. But that is not part of the bill, so we have to take that debate at another time.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130111628	No one has asked for short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur in the rapporteur's report is Mr Beazley. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130111633	Thank you. I also think I will be very brief and just agree with, among other things. The Left rapporteur and briefly note that the Liberal Alliance naturally supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130111652	There are also no comments to Mr. Carsten Bach, so we move on to Mr. Bach. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130111658	Thank you. I have been somewhat confused about this proposal, so thank you to Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen to help me get ready for what's happening. When I read the hearings, I thought that now the hell is loose here, because it seems that we are relaxing the control we are making of our drinking water. Then I can see that the proposal has been adjusted so that it is now merely a matter of communication, that is to say an authorisation to ask municipalities and others to make a communication to the owners of water wells. Of course, we can support that. But I also understand from the Social Democrat rapporteur that there are some changes at the level of announcement in this area, and I am very concerned about that. For our drinking water is a key resource that we really need to safeguard, and the minimal control that can be expected is, after all, a basic safety for all of us. So, if you relax the requirements of analysing dangerous substances in our drinking water, I think that is clearly the wrong way to go. But it has obviously been taken out of this bill, so when we talk about it, we can support it as it is now before us.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130111831	No one has asked for brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130111837	Thank you. After all, the legislative proposal has been examined, and I would say that we naturally support the legislative proposal, which provides for the possibility of notifying. However, we also think that the Social Democrats are right in their criticism of the unwise change in the announcement that has been made, so that drinking water tests are no longer to be carried out. Of course, people who live in areas with less water drilling also need to know how their water feels, how their water quality is. So, yes, we are also happy to help the Minister clean up a little after his own change of announcement today.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130111909	There are no comments to the rapporteur. Thank you. We move on to Mrs. Trine Torp, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130111914	Thank you. As has been said, the draft law is actually very simple, and SF has nothing against the fact that it is the municipality that has to inform consumers about matters relating to their water. I would have rather been involved in the decisions that lie at the level of announcement. After all, there are a number of deteriorations in the monitoring of our drinking water, which the Minister has already carried out through existing authorisations by amending the drinking water notice. And the deterioration has taken place solely on the grounds that the government has decided that there must be no over-implementation of EU rules; that there are therefore EU directives and regulations to determine the protection of drinking water and that the government will not go further, although it must adopt regulations that are tougher than what could be achieved by a majority in the European Union. So in future, a large number of water samples will no longer be taken at the waterworks, but in the homes of selected consumers from their taps. Although the group of water supplies which is no longer required to meet the quality requirements has been reduced compared to the proposal which was submitted in consultation, it is still the case for all individual winners that there is no need to meet requirements for water quality studies. In the future, the small family in the countryside may well drink water with more than 100 mg or with plenty of bacteria per year. liters, without anyone interfering with it. You will also be able to rent your house on your own in the future without the tenants knowing that there are problems with the quality of drinking water. One problem which also arises from the lack of control over the quality of drinking water is that it is no longer possible to require poor water quality households connected to general water supply. In this way, therefore, there is no longer any possibility of ensuring the expansion of water plants in smaller communities. So the biggest problem is the announcement that has already been issued. The transfer of the notification obligation is thus OK.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130112125	There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and go to Mrs Mette Abildgaard from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130112132	Thank you. After all, it is not the drinking water notice that is being debated here today, but the bill which has been presented to us and has been examined very well and which basically simply moves a legal basis so that you have a notification obligation transferred from the Danish Environmental Protection Agency to the municipality. So the Conservative People's Party can also support this proposal, which is a good reminder that it has been worth every hour you have hung up in lampposts and posters to be elected into the Folketing, and every day you have frozen with cold fingers when you are allowed to come in and make changes like this. So we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130112211	There are no brief comments. We thank Mrs Mette Abildgaard and move on to the Minister for the Environment and Food. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130112217	Thank you for that, President. As Minister for the smallest proposals, I thank you for your support and have nothing further to add.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130112226	There is a brief comment. Sir. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130112232	Thank you. I'm a little puzzled about the process. I think it's fine with what's in this proposal. It is a very small thing, and of course one can approve of it. But I just have a very great deal of concern when it comes to my ears that we are relaxing at the level of announcement. In fact, I have a concern and one might ask in this way: what are we going to put on signs over the faucets where controls have not been carried out for perhaps many years? Should it be said that this is unsuitable for drinking water before there is a check? How can you as a guest, or if you rent a summer house, as Mrs Trine Torp pointed out, be sure that you will not be poisoned to some extent by this water? Is this something the Minister has considered taking care of and perhaps making a suggestion so that we can be more comforted in that situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20171130112332	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130112333	Thank you for the question, but it is completely outside this debate, as this is about authorisation. So it doesn't belong to this bill at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130112341	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130112342	I'm aware that it's now moved outside of this bill. But that's still the subject of today's bill, and if there's something that worries the Danes, it's the quality of drinking water. So I think it is relevant whether the Minister could reassure us a little and whether there is any control of drinking water, including on the small single wells around the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130112403	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130112404	Well, I can tell sir. Christian Poll, that any Dane who has a private drinking water well, who supplies water to the person concerned and his family, will probably be concerned that the water you drink is clean. Therefore, you probably get the measurements you need to have taken if you have a consciousness about it. So I am quite confident that the Danes have a self-responsibility for their drinking water if they only have a private borehole that gives water to themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130112428	Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democratic Party, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130112430	It's a question to the minister with the smallest draft laws, as long as it's not the minister with the least ambition, it's enough. The minister says he's quite comfortable with the smaller private boreholes. However, I have just mentioned in my rapporteur's speech that there is in fact some indication that small private boreholes have more problems than large boreholes. I think I found out that a 2004 study showed that 68 per cent. of the small water supply facilities had challenges with the limit value for pesticides, nitrate or, for example, bacteria carbon dioxide and the like. So perhaps there is little reason to have the security of the small boreholes expressed by the Minister. Therefore, I may have a little difficulty in seeing the argument for cutting back on the control of drinking water. We are talking about whole families, and children must also be protected, even if their parents choose to have a private borehole and get water from it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130112529	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130112530	That question is also outside the scope of this bill. However, out of simple courtesy to the rapporteur of the Socialist Group, I would just like to say that that study is of course many, many years old. We have a clear expectation that the quality of drinking water is as it should be, and if you as a citizen should be the least concerned about your drinking water quality, then it is the most natural thing in the world that you get it checked with a private water supply.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130112555	Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130112557	Are there any more recent figures which mean that the figures to which I refer are no longer relevant? Because if it does not, it is difficult to see that the knowledge we have in this area can justify turning down the control of drinking water in private boreholes.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130112613	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130112615	I'd like to pass that on to Mr. Knox. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130112618	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130112622	The minister says he's safe with the knowledge of our drinking water. I am now not quite so confident, because there are also people with a very poor economy who move far into the countryside and who are going to rent some housing where they may not have the greatest possible focus on whether the drinking water that is in that housing is something that can harm the children they may have. So I really think there are some things about what has been in consultation and what has then been tampered with by the law, which means that I am considering whether this bill should not be amended. Now we have had something in consultation, so it must of course allow us to table an amendment to the draft law which made it more comprehensive, so we ended up with the fact that it was not the smallest draft law in Danish history, but perhaps took account of the fact that it could be made a little bigger and a little better. So I would like to hear from the Minister whether it is not correct, since there has been a hearing, that we could take something into the bill that has been taken out.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130112727	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130112729	I know it is always possible to table an amendment, so Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen is of course welcome to raise the level of ambition seen from Enhedslisten's chair.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130112738	- Do you want to see him? - Yes, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen second brief remark? Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130112741	It is a good thing that the Minister confirms that Enhedslisten has higher ambitions than the Minister has, but now it should not be a battle for words. In my view, this matter of the fact that there may be some families living far out in the countryside that do not focus on and that do not have much knowledge that the drinking water that looks clean may have a nitrate content that is too high and that can harm their children. There, as politicians, we have a responsibility to create the right framework so that we protect people as best we can, including clean drinking water.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130112814	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130112816	I did not hear that there was a question, but the level of ambition to which I referred was only that the bill was extended, not that I thought it was wise to do so. So, it's just for Mr. Kim. Søren Egge Rasmussen takes it easy.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130112828	No one else has asked for brief comments. We thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. If no one objects to it, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130112846	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130112904	Thank you. You have a stand until you take a new one. That's what Jens Otto Krag once said. And with Bill L 103, the Minister for the Environment can make the famous words his own. In any case, the draft law is a strong indication that we have a very flexible Minister for the Environment in this country. A few months ago, the same bill that we are debating today was made to sell state land on which campsites are operated, that is, by the Liberal Alliance, which at that time was not part of the government. The proposal was shot down by the then but also by the current Minister for the Environment with the argument, and here I quote: "Campsites are all an integral part of a larger recreational forest and nature area under the Danish Nature Agency, where there is a need to maintain free public access to the land. The Danish Nature Agency's land management is focused on ensuring open air for the Danes and nature conservation of our land. ▪ See, it seems to me a beautiful argument, a strong defence of the Danes' access to nature. The Social Democratic Party also took the same line of argument, which is why we also supported the then Minister for the Environment, and we shot down the proposal last along with the current and then environmental minister. We are, in fact, maintaining our view today. It's too bad the government's turned 180 degrees on this question. It is a pity that the Minister for the Environment has turned 180 degrees on this issue and thus looks at the recreational opportunities that the Danes are now being robbed of when you sell these lands that can be transferred to private camping and thus risk being taken out of the area to which the Danes have free access. I am very, very sorry that the Minister has changed his mind on this issue. The press material published by the Ministry in connection with the bill indicates that the sale of State land is intended to finance nature projects. I understand from a prominent organisation that in October it asked about what nature projects are involved. I thought that was a very reasonable and relevant question to ask, but according to the Danish Nature Conservation Association, who asked the question, they can get an answer to it after Christmas. I think that the slowness shows that behind this proposal there is quite a lot of ideology, but quite a little consideration of nature, and I think it is a pity that the concern about nature and the Danes' access to nature, which was so dear to the attention of the Minister for the Environment when we last dealt with the bill, is no longer at all with the Minister for the Environment and the Government. With those words, I can tell you that the Social Democratic Party cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130113202	No one has asked for brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pia Adelsteen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130113209	As I have said, the proposal is that the state should sell the campsites it currently has. Some time ago, we actually changed the rules so that those areas could be classified. This was not possible in the past, and perhaps it was one of the reasons why we in the Danish People's Party said no last time, that is to say that we did not have the opportunity to do so, and there were, like no other ways to do it. We have now changed these rules, which is why the campsites can be erected. Therefore, we in the Danish People's Party also think that it is quite good to have them sold. I personally find it difficult to see why the state should run campsites; I think that may be something private should do. Most of them have been leased away, so it is private people who drive them. They will also have the first opportunity to take over these campsites, and I think that is very good. So the Danish People's Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130113311	No one has asked for brief comments, so we thank Mrs Pia Adelsteen. The next rapporteur in the rapporteur's report is Mr. Erling Bonnesen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130113321	Thank you. This is a very good bill that has now been presented. There is no reason whatsoever for the state to operate campsites, and now it is also possible to sell the latter. That is what the draft law is all about, and the Left can fully support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130113344	There is a request for a brief comment from Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130113349	Now I have heard this about the state running campsites, from two rapporteurs, but where is it going?
ParlaMint-DK_20171130113357	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130113357-2	The state owns these lands, but then I understand that the day-to-day operation itself can be somewhere else. But there is no reason whatsoever why the State owns the land in question.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130113406	Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130113407	The day-to-day operation can be leased or rented out, but is there any example of the state running campsites, as the rapporteur said? Is there any example of a campsite that is not rented or leased out? Where is the example where the state operates campsites?
ParlaMint-DK_20171130113420	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130113421	Well, I don't see any reason why the state should own these lands, and that's why the Left is quite willing to sell them.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130113431	Mrs Pia Adelsteen from the Danish People's Party has asked for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130113434	It's just a counter question. It's true that the state doesn't run these campsites, because it's tenants who typically do it. But instead of continuing to have this lease of some areas where it can be difficult to do so much else, the alternative is actually just to close them down, so don't rent them out and turn the area into nature. Does the rapporteur think it was a way of doing this?
ParlaMint-DK_20171130113459	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130113500	I think it is quite good that the campsites where they are located may still be able to lie there. Camping doesn't destroy nature or the environment. After all, none of us wants to destroy nature or the environment, even those who run the campsites, not even those who can become their future owners. On the contrary, it may also be part of the fact that you as a camper come out and have a really good experience, and I think it is good that there are both large and small campsites, so there is something for everyone. So getting this case handled is right to the right.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130113536	There is no wish for any further comments, so we thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding from the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130113544	Thank you. I would like to follow on from what the Socialist rapporteur said, and I would particularly like to highlight this when I agree with the Minister for the Environment on a rare occasion. The Minister's own words are: The campsites are an integral part of a larger recreational forest and natural area under the Danish Nature Agency, where there is a need to maintain free public access to the land. The Danish Nature Agency's land management is focused on ensuring open air opportunities for the Danes and nature conservation of our land. Those were wise words from the Minister for the Environment, and they are, in fact, also those I would like to highlight today in order to reject our support for this bill, which I think is quite wrong. Why should the community not be able to own nature areas and make them available so that Danes and tourists can come and enjoy our nature? I think it is fine that there are private people who are renting out, but that ownership of these areas should be in the hands of all of us, in the hands of the community, I think it is extremely important, and I think this is an example of when ideology shadows common sense and shadows the interests of the community. So the Enhedslisten can't support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130113717	There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Pia Adelsteen, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130113720	It is just because I think that we are drawing such a slightly wrong picture of the fact that this is about free public access to land. Right now, some tenants are running the campsites. Trust me, everyone can't get in there. You have to pay to lie there. So, yes, you might be able to bypass, but at most campsites I know, you can't just run around and use the facilities without paying for it. So free public access is hardly available today and will not be made available as such either. My question is: if you keep them in the hands of the state right now, are the leased-outs but if you lose your tenants and there is no one who wants to lease them, should the state run campsites?
ParlaMint-DK_20171130113812	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130113812-2	I can answer that clearly: I would have no problem with that at all. I cannot understand at all this ideological blockage that if it is not privatised to some extent, then it must be really, really bad. I think that, as a community, we can easily go in and take responsibility for a large number of more of the fundamental functions of society. Why shouldn't we? Why shouldn't we have much more in the hands of the community? Why should we not be able to secure revenue for the Treasury in far more areas than today? Why should it only be through taxes and taxes? Why can't the state be much more active? I think that would be quite reasonable. And in relation to the access rules, that is one of them. We are told in the consultation answers that there will no longer be the rules of access extended here. I have not been able to read in the material what this means in concrete terms, but the more people are concerned that access rules, access opportunities for ordinary people to these natural areas will be reduced. That is my concern.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130113913	Mrs Pia Adelsteen for her second brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130113914	It's possible, but I'm just having a hard time understanding it, or it's just because we have so different opinions that I find it hard to understand that Enhedslisten apparently thinks that the state should do business. That's what I hear Enhedslisten say. We're gonna do business, we're gonna make some profits, and then we're gonna stop charging that much tax or we're not gonna do that, are we?
ParlaMint-DK_20171130113942	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130113943	Well, I think most people discovered Enhedslisten's great resistance when they were selling out of the state's energy company DONG. Yes, we would really like more functions, more things in this society were in the hands of the community, that we all owned something more, energy companies, water supply companies, the whole basic infrastructure, privatised less, took more back into the hands of the community. And this, in our opinion, is moving in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130114016	Mrs Mette Abildgaard for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130114018	Thank you. I simply think this is a fantastic debate, because this is the first time I have heard the rapporteur come up with really classic socialist arguments in relation to the tasks that the state must undertake and, in fact, it is quite wonderful that it is such a day when there are audiences in the Chamber. Because it gives such a very good picture of the ideological differences which are also in politics and which are, of course, entirely legitimate. But I would just like to ask the rapporteur, Mrs Reumert Gjerding, a question. Because she's saying it wouldn't hurt her if the government owned, operated, managed, tourism. I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur has ever raised in, for example, the report. Cuba and have experienced the level of service there in the hotels owned and operated by the State
ParlaMint-DK_20171130114103	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130114104	Yes, I have traveled in Cuba a very beautiful country in many ways. But where I think there is an ideological block, this is the automatic understanding that if we as a society own activities together, it must necessarily become ineffective, stupid and bad. I am so opposed to that view. It is very difficult to see the rapporteur from here... Is there a brief comment?
ParlaMint-DK_20171130114144	Yes, there is a brief comment from Mrs Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130114148	I was just waiting for the President to give me the floor. I am glad that the rapporteur says that Cuba is a beautiful country, because that is where we can at least agree and be completely on the same wavelength. However, there is nothing good to say about the level of service in the state hotels being operated in Cuba. I myself lived at one this summer and have read about many similar people who have lived in one, and there is, in general, a completely horrible and poor level of service. That's one of them. one of the arguments that it should be private, that is in a competitive environment that is driving this, and not the state.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130114216	I think we should ask Mrs Mette Abildgaard to remain standing so that the rapporteur can see her. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130114224	But what an absurd view it is that things either have to be privatised or we end up in Cuba. Could there perhaps be some sort of golden middle ground? Could it be that the state could also be involved in a competition? Could it not be that we made some demands or had a goal to also provide an acceptable service, even if we own things together? In Denmark we have a very, very large public sector which operates a whole lot of things and which, of course, does not do so solely for the purpose of making money, but which places a whole series of other considerations into the operation that you have. It may well be that in a large number of other sectors and areas a number of social considerations, Community-based considerations, can be included in addition to the economic ones.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130114313	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked for brief comments. The next rapporteur in the rapporteur's report is Mr Beazley. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130114321	Thank you very much. I am, in fact, very pleased to have somehow contributed to a very high-flying ideological debate in this Chamber. It happens sometimes. It is not always quite so high-flying, but today it seems that we have crossed the clouds, and I would say that at least here too there is a fairly wide gap between the Liberal Alliance and the Enhedslisten. Because with this bill, one of the Liberal Alliance's stick horses is actually addressed, I'd like to call it. It may seem like a very small matter, but it is actually very, very fundamental. In fact, the State is not required to engage in commercial activities or to own land on which commercial activities are carried out unnecessarily. One thing is that the state is rarely quite good at operating commercial activities profitablely, without necessarily having to end up in Cuban conditions, but another thing is that the state should not do it at all in an otherwise free market. The fact is that the Danish Nature Agency's campsites compete directly with all other ordinary private-run campsites, and it is therefore also for reasons of principle that we believe that this is not the task of the state, nor do we want the state to interfere in an inappropriate manner elsewhere in the free market. In other words, there are unequal market conditions when the Danish Nature Agency operates with the state in the back. In addition, we are already dealing with a tourism industry which has enough competitiveness problems. As you know, Denmark has some of the world's highest energy and excise duties, high wages and high VAT rates, and together they represent a burden that does not exactly create the framework conditions for the tourism industry that we in the Liberal Alliance believe are needed. As has already been mentioned, the Liberal Alliance tabled a resolution in this Chamber a year and a half ago which would oblige the then Left Government to sell state campsites. At that time there was no support for the proposal, which is why I am, of course, particularly pleased today that it now seems that more parties have come to their senses and the government is now launching sales. There have also been a few other changes along the way, so that it is actually possible to make these improvements within, among others. the beach protection line. This shows once again why it makes sense to take responsibility and engage in intergovernmental cooperation. Of course, we support the bill because the tourism industry needs better framework conditions in order to strengthen competitiveness and because in future private companies will have to compete on equal terms and not against the state. But we're not gonna stop there. There are a large number of other cases of public theft that we need to deal with. The state's so-called Nature Agency alone operates both commercial forestry and agriculture, even with EU agricultural support, which certainly does not in any way promote nature. The Liberal Alliance would also very much like to urge that we take a stand as soon as possible. Overall, of course, the Liberal Alliance supports the excellent government bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130114715	There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Ida Auken, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130114718	I just thought that now that we are having the big ideological debate, one might ask the Liberal Alliance, since one is a party in favour of freedom, if one should not support the wish of the Free Air Council that there should be a clause that the public's right to move and reside should continue to correspond to the extended access rights granted by the Nature Agency, so that the public should not be restricted to these lands simply because they are now chosen to sell them. Is it not a good freedom for the public to protect so that everyone can still walk on these lands? It must be in the spirit of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130114754	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130114756	I am aware that the draft law does not change the rules, for example. access to areas within the beach protection line, etc., so I do not think that is the case for the vast majority of campsites.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130114812	Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130114814	We may be able to clarify this in the committee procedure, but at least the consultation answer here says that the Danish Nature Agency today provides extended access rights, that is to say that they do not restrict access rights because they have a campsite that they lease out themselves. Does the rapporteur not think in the spirit of freedom that the freedom for the rest of the population to travel on these lands should still be there, even when they are being extracted?
ParlaMint-DK_20171130114836	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130114838	To the extent that the land is covered by other forms of regulation of access, these will, of course, be maintained, but otherwise, of course, if you dispose of land to some private people, some other conditions that apply, in relation to property rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130114856	No one else has asked for brief comments. Thank you, sir. Carsten Bach and move on to the next rapporteur in the rapporteur's line, Mr. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130114905	Thank you. The campsites currently run by a tenant but owned by the state are therefore wanted by this proposal to be sold to private individuals. It is unclear to me what the purpose of the proposal is other than simple ideologically based privatisation. These few campsites are uniquely located in nature areas, and it is therefore of great importance to us in the Alternative that full focus remains on nature conservation and extended access for all citizens. I think it is more uncertain if the seats are privately owned, how protection and access can also be ensured in the future. We have asked a number of questions and expect to vote against the proposal, but will wait for the final position. However, I have just received some answers yesterday afternoon, and I would like to highlight No. 1. In Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) 1 I have asked the Minister: can the Minister state to what extent it will be possible to maintain citizens' wider opportunities to move in the current state areas used for campsites if land is transferred to private ownership? The answer is: The government does not want to put future owners at a disadvantage in competition with the other campsites by imposing additional restrictions on them than those imposed by the legislation. Like any other landowner, it will therefore be up to the future owner to decide whether the public should have a particularly extensive access to the land. That's a clear speech. So there is no wish to respond to what Mrs Ida Auken has just asked and which the Free Air Council is proposing, that is to say, to move on with extended public access. That is why it is clear that we cannot support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130115048	There is a request for a brief remark from Mrs Trine Torp, SF. No? That's good. Then no one has asked for brief comments, and we go further in the rapporteur's report to Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130115101	After all, we have discussed a little what is gained by going into government, and some may have asked what the Liberal Alliance has got out of going into government and had to drop all its ultimate demands and its very big ideological visions of totally transforming the tax system and other things in Denmark and becoming such a little bit, what to call them, lukewarm reformers rather than being the revolutionaries who were elected into the Folketing. It is, of course, politics, and I think it is sensible enough to make compromises and get something through. But today we have one of the great victories of the Liberal Alliance. In addition to cheap cars, the Liberal Alliance has now received their proposal that the state should not own campsites and lease them out through. Congratulations! That's really, really nice of the Liberal Alliance. Then, on the other hand, it is, of course, a pity that the rest of the government has bowed down in this area. One might ask oneself why one has done so. However, I would like to say that a few months ago, when the Liberal Alliance was outside the government, exactly the same proposals were made, so there can be no one today who is in doubt that it is a major priority for the Liberal Alliance that is coming through. At the time, the Minister for the Environment said the following: "Camping sites all form an integral part of a larger recreational forest and nature area under the Danish Nature Agency, where there is a need to maintain free public access to the land. The Danish Nature Agency's land management is focused on ensuring open air for the Danes and nature conservation of our land. ▪ It was wise when Esben Lunde Larsen, Minister for the Environment, said it a few months ago, and that is also wise today. It is just a pity that we are then faced with a bill with the same minister who is putting forward, which is now doing exactly the opposite of what was said at the time. It is really a pity that with the Danish People's Party in the lead we are now removing an extended access granted to all the Danes by the Danish Nature Agency to these areas with a campsite. The Danish People's Party will now take it from the Danes. Now there are quite simply natural areas that can be extracted and where, as a Dane, we can no longer move, and there we have apparently moved more towards this somewhat simplistic concept of freedom, which is in the Liberal Alliance, where it is the individual free campsite owner who must have the right, and not society, and how many people else have had the right to move on these natural areas. This is a pity from a radical point of view. We think it is a good idea for the state to be able to have campsites on its territory which are rented out to private people, but at the same time to ensure that these natural areas are open to the whole population and that the nature content can be protected. So we certainly cannot support the proposal today and vote against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130115348	No one has asked for brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Trine Torp from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130115405	Thank you. As has already been said, this bill is due to a motion for a resolution by the Liberal Alliance, which has now been included in the constitution of the government. The resolution was then only supported by the Liberal Alliance and Conservatives. As in the case of the motion for a resolution tabled by the Liberal Alliance, the SF believes that the state should not run campsites, and neither does the state. The campsites are leased at market conditions, and then all liberals should be happy. The proposal provides for a deregulating of nature protection in the areas owned by the State, which house campsites, in order to give room to private owners. It is ideology that wants something, and the debate in the Parliamentary Assembly has already shown this very clearly. But the consequence is precisely the abolition of natural protection. And what consequences have been raised for the existing extended public access to the areas? It would be a clear improvement on the legislative proposal if this right were introduced into the legislative proposal. Since the government has relaxed the law on plans, it has opened up the possibility of developing coastal projects in these campsites if this can be obtained through the relaxed provisions of the law on plans. So in this way the two legislative proposals have transformed the areas which were recreational opportunities in forest and nature areas for all citizens into projects where we do not know what is happening with nature protection and where we do not know what is happening with free and equal access to the areas either. So we're against the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130115600	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we can reach one last rapporteur before we interrupt and pause, and that is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130115608	Thank you. I have to hurry, so we may also be able to reach the Minister. The Conservative People's Party supports this bill, L 103 or lex Carsten Bach, as we call it. We also supported the resolution at the time, because we do not believe that the state should own campsites. So we're backing this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130115634	We thank the rapporteur and the chair considers that if there is no question, we must be able to reach the Minister now. So we get the minister up. If there are so many questions, we must interrupt and pause. Here you go to the Minister for the Environment and Food.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130115648	Thank you. I will be very brief. I think it is a good thing that you as a party seek influence in the government and then you get some of your victories through, and that is what is the case here. That is why we are making a change which makes it possible to sell the state's campsites. So I have not changed my position, I have only changed my position, and I know that can be done. So with that I have nothing more to say.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130115710	There is one question from Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130115713	It was a strategically wise and humorous way of attacking such a big turnaround, so the Minister should be commended for that. At the rather more serious end, I think that something can be done to incorporate the Minister's previous view of access to the land into the draft law that the Minister has put forward today, in other words, in order to maintain extended access. Because there may be all sorts of concerns about whether a new campsite will be more intensive in nature. I do not think we can do anything about that if the Minister's proposals are maintained. But it would be possible to maintain extended access. And so the Minister could maintain his views that it is important that those areas be made available to the public and, at the same time, get through his legislative proposal that he has promised the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130115753	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130115754	As I have been informed, this applies to three campsites. We can just send over some written material, but as a starting point I have been informed that this applies to three campsites where there is now access to the beach and where that possibility is lifted. You will then not have access to the beach via the campsite, but through other areas; it is not the case that you will not be able to get down to the beach. I don't think there's gonna be any shivering on my head over in the official gallery, so I think that's what I'm saying. But I would like to follow up in writing.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130115825	Then it is Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130115831	I'm a little curious about resale. Is it possible to re-sell for purposes other than campsites, since this area is thus privatised? Or what restrictions or clauses are added?
ParlaMint-DK_20171130115843	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130115844	Well we offer them for sale, and what's going to happen will depend on who buys them. So we're just gonna do the opportunity to take out the campsites and sell them.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130115856	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130115858	This means that they can be sold for a completely different purpose and that the new owner can decide that something quite different should happen on the land.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130115905	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130115905-2	I think that if Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerd has an interest in buying one of the campsites and wants to make it a riding school, then there will be nothing to prevent it. Well, unless there's something in the local plan that makes the municipality not want to make such a change. So I don't think there are any obstacles to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130115921	No one else wishes to speak, so we thank the Minister. That concludes the debate. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130130004	The sitting is resumed. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Mattias Tesfaye of the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130130028	With this bill, the government is proposing two amendments to the Aliens Act. Firstly, it is proposed to extend the period during which resident citizens must provide financial security when they want their foreign spouse to Denmark. Today, a citizen must be able to guarantee just over 50,000 kroner. for five years, which may cover any social security costs. The security must then be extended until their spouse receives a permanent residence permit, after which the money can be released to the citizen. The draft law extends it to 10 years. Social democracy is in favour of citizens providing this financial security if they want to get their spouse to the country. It may of course seem like a large amount, especially for many young people, but we believe that the rule is fair and helps to guarantee that marriage does not end up as excessive financial costs for the rest of society. With the current rules for obtaining permanent residence permits, which for a large part mean that the alien has to wait eight years, it must of course increase administrative work for both the authorities and families to have to extend or renew the security after the first five years. It therefore seems reasonable to extend the period. At the same time, the government proposes that, as something new, no security should be provided for a new period, even if, after 10 years, the merged spouse has not obtained a permanent residence permit. The second element of the draft law is, in our view, a natural consequence of the fact that the Folketing has established an independent board of foreigners which, with the competent judge of the table-end, can well be regarded as a court-like body. We are comfortable with the decisions of the Court of Justice and therefore see no reason why there should be particularly easy access to subsequent judicial proceedings beyond the ordinary right of appeal which, of course, exists under the Constitution. I must say, however, that we have read the hearing from the Institute for Human Rights with particular interest. The Foundation points out that when the particularly easy access to justice is removed, it should be clarified how children's more specific guarantees of legal certainty are guaranteed in the Foreigners' Board. We have discovered that, on the basis of the consultation answer, the Ministry has changed the comments of the draft law, but we will state in good order that we will consider during the committee procedure whether, in our view, there is a need for further clarification of the guarantees of legal certainty. With those comments, we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130130253	Thank you, sir. Mattias Tesfaye. There are no brief comments, so we are moving on to Mr. Martin Henriksen from the Danish People's Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130130305	Thank you. One part is about what Mr. Mattias Tesfaye also said that if you want to have a spouse in the country and have a family together, you should give a financial guarantee today. The guarantee is then valid for five years, and afterwards you must ensure that it is extended. It is proposed here that the period should be set at 10 years and, if you have not been granted a permanent residence permit after 10 years, the financial guarantee will lapse. In the Danish People's Party we immediately think that it is excellent. We will ask about this during the committee procedure, but immediately we think that the financial guarantee should apply until a permanent residence permit has actually been granted. Now that we are dealing with a legislative proposal on financial guarantees, I would say that it is no secret that we believe that it should be increased from the current amount. There is also the part that is about removing the slightly easy access to trial before the courts, and one must then complain to the Foreigners' Board instead. At first sight we have no problem with that change. However, I would add that there may well be an amendment from the Danish People's Party that we think that there are generally too many complaints and too easy redress in the area of foreigners and, as such, also in this area. However, we will ask some questions and may table some amendments, and then we will decide at committee reading how we vote when this comes to third reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130130429	Thank you, sir. Martin Henriksen. Since I don't see Mr. Knox... Marcus Knuth in the Chamber at the moment... it may be that he can reach it later... we will go to Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130130446	This bill is made up of two parts that have nothing to do with each other. The first part deals with collateralisation in cases where a person who lives in Denmark wishes to have his or her foreign spouse brought together to this end. The second is about abolishing the existing special easy access to trial for family reunification with children in court. Again, I have to say that I think it is somewhat sloppy to mix two issues that have nothing to do with each other in the same legislative proposal. As far as the first issue is concerned, that is to say what concerns the security, we recognise that the change will probably mean an administrative relief for the citizens to whom it relates. Several organizations point to this. We in the Enhedslisten would like to listen to that. However, we have little difficulty in understanding that the security must apply for a 10-year period when in the Aliens Act you operate for 8 years as the period that people have to live in Denmark in order to obtain the right to apply for permanent residence permits. That is why we will also be asking about that part of the legislative proposal. The second part of the bill is much more problematic. Here the government will remove the special easy access to trial cases of family reunification with children. The reason is that legal certainty is good enough because we have the Foreigner's Board. We do not agree with that in the Enhedslisten. We believe that the proposal is a weakening of an important piece of legal certainty in our law on foreigners. Children make up a particularly vulnerable group. In the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, Denmark has undertaken that the best interests of the child should be given priority in all decisions taken by the authorities, and it is an important benefit of legal certainty that there is a particularly easy access to justice, including the decisions of the Foreigners' Board. Overall, the second part of the bill means that Enhedslisten cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130130653	Thank you to Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen. There are no brief comments. Mrs Laura Lindahl of the Liberal Alliance has the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130130704	The draft law before us contains two elements, as the previous rapporteurs have already explained. One element is to extend the period of financial security for family reunification cases, and we think that is positive. The second element is the abolition of the particularly easy access to justice, and that is what we think is sensible in view of the fact that we also have confidence in the current board. So on that basis, the Liberal Alliance supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130130743	Thank you to Mrs Laura Lindahl. There are no brief comments. The next to speak is Mrs Josephine Fock from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130130802	Thank you. As several speakers have said, this draft law by the government on the amendment of the Aliens Act contains two parts. Firstly, the period for financial security in the event of marriage will be extended and, secondly, the special ease of access to justice in cases of family reunification with children will be abolished. As regards the first part of the draft law, that is to say the part relating to the extension of the period of financial security in cases of spouse reunification, it is now the case that if a foreigner wants his or her spouse to Denmark, he or she must provide financial security and sign that he or she can support the spouse. That guarantee must be provided today for five years. If your spouse has not obtained permanent residence within the guarantee period, the period shall be extended by five years or a new guarantee shall be provided for five years. What the bill wants is to change the period from 5 to 10 years. This is justified, among other things. with the fact that it is an economic and administrative burden for the Foreigners' Agency and the municipalities to deal with these matters, also because it is a relief when the vast majority of spouses do not obtain permanent residence until after 8 years of stay in Denmark. And we recognise that there is the administrative relief. As the rapporteur on the Enhedslisten has already said, we have the same question, and it can be said that why it is that we want to extend up to ten years here and not just eight years ago. We shall ask about this in committee. At the same time, we believe that there may be problems when most guarantee through the bank and will they then be able to obtain a guarantee for 10 years at a time? This may make some of the most disadvantaged considerably weaker. Then there is the second part which will abolish the particularly easy access to justice. We find this seriously worrying in this bill. That means abolishing easy and rapid access to justice in cases of family reunification with children. We can also say from the platform that the definition of children by the Aliens Act is not in line with the UN Convention on Children, which Denmark has ratified and which says that everyone under the age of 18 is a child. It is just, yes, a small page note that I wanted to say here from the platform, namely that I already find that problematic. Today it is the case that if you are refused an application for family reunification with children by the Foreigners' Board, you can complain to the Foreigners' Board. The decisions of the Aliens' Board are so final, that they cannot be appealed to other administrative authorities. Before the decisions of the Foreigners' Board can be brought before a judge in accordance with Article 63 of the Constitution, they may be required to be brought to justice, and they may do so within 14 days of the decision. This provides an additional guarantee of legal certainty for an already very vulnerable group, these children. It is not only legal certainty in the course of the proceedings, but it is in fact also a guarantee of speedy processing. And that's what you want to get rid of with this opportunity in the bill. The argument is that there are not the same reasons for legal certainty now that the Foreigner's Board is established and we have in section 63 of the Constitution. I think that is a very worrying argument, especially when there are examples that judicial proceedings have actually taken decisions other than those taken by the Foreigners' Board and because the speedy processing is crucial in cases where we are talking about children separated from their parents. That's why we're very critical of this part of the bill. There is also the fact that we actually have some improvement proposals, because as it is now, the court can decide for itself whether the proceedings should proceed in writing or orally, and this means in practice that the vast majority of cases take place in writing, and this makes it difficult for foreigners who may find it difficult to explain their cases in writing. Therefore, it might be appropriate for there to be an opportunity for a personal appearance in court. So we're against this bill. We would like to ask about the first part, that is to say about the economy, but on the basis of the second part of the legislative proposal, which seeks to remove judicial review, we are opposed to the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130131226	Thank you to Mrs Josephine Fock. There are no brief comments. And the next rapporteur is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130131234	Thank you. As previous rapporteurs have explained, this draft law is a collection of two different things. The first part, which deals with the financial guarantee, which is now raised to ten years, may, of course, seem like a tightening up, but there is also something that advocates that it is actually an administrative relief, not only for the administration, the procedure, but also for the people involved. We also have some questions about this, like previous rapporteurs who have asked questions. We could, I think, have supported that, but now that the bill is mixed with the lifting of the access to justice in certain family reunification cases that families with children have, we cannot support this bill. If it was split up, we could consider it, but I do not suppose the Minister is prepared to do so. The arguments put forward by the previous rapporteur from the Alternative also apply to me. I think there are a number of examples of case law that show that there is not the same legal certainty, and there is certainly not the same speed at which the current practice applies to children. And that is what is most important to us in the Radical Left, in other words, that children actually have rapid access to decision-making in the most crucial thing for them in their lives, namely family reunification with their own parents. And that's why we can't in any way support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130131437	Thank you to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen. There are no brief comments. Then I would like to welcome Mr. Holger K. Nielsen from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130131500	We can't support this bill. This is due, as others have also said, to the deterioration in the possibilities of court trials in connection with family reunifications involving children. We are extremely incomprehensible about the need to tighten it up and think that the problem is the opposite at the moment, namely that there is too weak a legal position for children, so that children often get caught up in many of the cases of family reunification that are here in Denmark. That is why, of course, we cannot support the fact that this deterioration is being made.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130131545	Thank you, sir. Holger K. Nielsen. There are no brief comments. I see no representative of the Conservative People's Party. Then we'll go over to mr. Marcus Knuth, Left, Danish Liberal Party. He had time to join us.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130131604	Thank you. I'm sorry I'm late. In the Left, as you know, we are in favour of a strict and consistent policy on foreigners, in which we demand the foreigners who will be part of our society. This is also typically reflected in the legislative proposals we are discussing. Another important priority in the legislative work of the Left and in our work is, on the whole, debureaucratisation. We must ensure that the administration in the authorities is as easy to go to as possible, not least in our area, the area of aliens and integration, where there are so many cases to deal with. The draft law here focuses on the latter priority, namely debureaucratisation. The proposal lays down that the period for which financial security is to be provided in cases of marriage shall be 10 years compared with the current five years. It must eliminate the shortcomings created by the current rules. For economic security is initially provided for five years, but it must therefore apply until the foreigner is granted a permanent residence permit, and since it is only possible after eight years, a new security must be provided. This creates a number of administrative problems which we can see described in the draft law and which I am sure the Minister will also mention. That is why I am delighted that the draft law will put this right. Then I would just like to turn the second part of the legislative proposal, namely the abolition of easy access to justice in cases of family reunification with children. The proposal is that there should no longer be this easy access to the trial. The reason is that since the introduction of the law we have now had the Foreigners' Board. In this respect, the government is aware that it is perfectly capable of ensuring legal certainty for the parties involved in these proceedings. I also believe that the Foreign Affairs Council can, for the mention is a very courtlike body whose members are independent. That is why the Left supports this bill and I should like to welcome the Conservatives and say that they do.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130131804	Thank you. There are no brief comments. This brings us to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, whom we welcome in the chair.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130131817	Thank you. I would also like to thank the rapporteurs who have already been on the floor. As you know, the government is pursuing a strict and consistent policy on foreigners. At the same time, it is important for the government to debureaucratise and also to create regulatory simplification, and that is what the proposal here basically is about: making the rules simpler and easier to manage and therefore also sensible, without giving away the demands that we must, of course, make on the foreigners who come here. Today it is a condition for marriage reunification that the resident provides a financial security of DKK 50,000. The amount guaranteed is adjusted annually, which means that in 2017 it is 54,000 DKK. The financial security shall be provided to cover any future public expenditure on assistance to the applicant under the Act on Assets or the Act on Integration. Today, the security is initially provided for five years, but it must apply until the alien is granted a permanent residence permit. As it is only possible to obtain a permanent residence permit after eight years of residence, this means that, as a general rule, there will always be an extension of the financial security or a new security. When the security is either to be renewed or renewed, it involves both the resident spouse who provides the security and the financial institution in which the security is provided and the municipality to which the security is to be provided, and the Foreigners' Board, which deals with the residence case. This simply creates unnecessary challenges for all parties. The rules as they stand today also mean that, due to a overlap between the proceedings for extension proceedings and the extension of the guarantee, there may be intermediate periods where there is no valid financial security. That in itself is inappropriate. In the view of the government, it is now only fair to demand that, as a spouse, you should be self-supporting. If you are assisted by the public authorities, the aid must be paid back and the starting point is that your residence permit should be withdrawn. However, the current rules on financial security also impose an inappropriate administrative burden on both the National Authority, the municipalities and the citizens. In addition, the whole purpose of the scheme can, in such a way, be lost because there may be periods in which security does not apply at all. The Government therefore proposes that in future financial security should be provided for a limited period of 10 years. It is 2 years longer than the 8-year requirement, which is the starting point, which must be met in order to obtain permanent residence permits. This will ensure a more appropriate administration of the scheme. In addition, it is also ensured that there can be no intermediate periods during which the security is not valid. Let me turn now to the second part of the draft law on the abolition of the particularly easy access to justice in cases of family reunification with children. It is, after all, a system that dates back to the time before the Foreigner's Board was established. It implies that final decisions refusing a residence permit for a child with her parents or refusing the extension, withdrawal or withdrawal of such authorisation may be brought before the court within 14 days of the decision being granted to the alien. In that case, it is the Foreigners' Board and not, as usual, the plaintiff who has to bring the case and transmit the file and the court which is responsible for the case's information. The draft law proposes that there should no longer be this particularly easy access to justice in cases of family reunification with children. Thus, the decisions of the National Council for Foreign Affairs in these cases can today be appealed to the Foreigners' Board, which, in the view of the Government, fully adequately ensures the legal certainty of those involved. The Foreigner's Board is an independent, collegiate administrative body whose meetings are chaired by a judge. In addition, a lawyer and an official from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration attend the meetings. The members of the Board shall be independent and shall not receive or seek instruction from the appointed or nominated authority or organisation. In the view of the Foreigners' Board, the legal grounds on which the scheme was based no longer apply in the same way in the view of the Government and, moreover, it will continue to be possible for those concerned to avail themselves of the general right of access to justice that is always available. It follows from Article 63 of the Constitution. Finally, I would like to thank you for the support that the proposal has, after all, enjoyed here today, and I look forward to the further discussion here in Parliament and, of course, also in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130132404	Thank you to the Minister, but she inspires a few brief remarks. And the first one is from sir. Mattias Tesfaye. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130132411	Thank you. For the Social Democrats, it is of course important that there is the widest possible support for Danish foreign policy, and as far as I could understand on several parties in this Chamber, they are actually in favour of the first part of the draft law on financial guarantees. So will the government be prepared to split the bill so that we can at least have broad support for the first part of the bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20171130132433	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130132435	It is such an issue that can always be discussed. But as a starting point, I think it is most sensible to just keep this in a single legislative proposal. But let us discuss it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130132449	Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130132455	As the Minister himself says, it is possible to apply for permanent residence after 8 years, but the guarantee is increased from 5 years to 10 years. And there are, of course, a number of organisations that say that they can see the sense of saving some administrative trouble by not having to return to a guarantee, they just say it is a little stupid or a little impractical that the limit is then not 8 years rather than 10 years. Can the Minister explain why it has been decided to say 10 years instead of 8, since 8 is the time when it is possible to apply for permanent residence?
ParlaMint-DK_20171130132541	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130132543	Yes, it is true that in many cases or in some cases you could at least apply for an unlimited stay after the 8 years. You can always try, but it is not certain that you will get the court. Having said that, however, the assessment is that the ten years are quite reasonable precisely in relation to an unlimited residence permit, which can be granted after eight years. But I would just like to say straight away that this is a relief, as Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen has also said, because we are now releasing both as an applicant, as municipalities, as authorities in general and as a bank, in order to extend this period from the five years and then extend once more, so that it becomes the ten years.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130132641	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130132643	The Minister says that it is immediately sensible for the ten years, but why? Why set the limit of 10 years when, after 8 years, you have the opportunity to apply for an unlimited stay? Actually, I don't see the logic of it. And will the Minister be prepared to change it so that it will be eight years old and thus follow the limit on when to apply for permanent residence rather than ten years?
ParlaMint-DK_20171130132710	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130132712	We will always be able to discuss this, but, on the other hand, I would now say that the ten years are very sensible, but let us discuss it. As I have said, it is two years longer than the time requirement for immediate compliance with the condition of permanent residence, and I believe that the period here ensures an administratively appropriate way of dealing with these cases, both for the immigration authorities and for the municipalities as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130132751	Thank you very much to the Minister. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. If any of you do not object, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171130132809	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting, apart from thanking everyone for today's work in the service of the people's government. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday, 1 December 2017, at 2 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
