ParlaMint-DK_20171205130034	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Peter Kofod Poulsen (DF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 45 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the legalization of pepper sprays for self-defence in the context of legal emergency guardians). Alex Ahrendtsen (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 46 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the naming of educational establishments). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20171205130108	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205130125	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposed amendments for adoption. There are three proposals. A vote shall first be taken on proposals for adoption n. V 6 by Claus Larsen-Jensen (S), Jan E. Jørgensen (V), Christina Egelund (LA), Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT), Zenia Stampe (RV), Holger K. Nielsen (SF) and Rasmus Jarlov (KF), and voting is possible. That concludes voting time. In favour, 78 (S, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), against 31 (DF and EL), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 6 is adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 5 by Kenneth Kristensen Berth (DF) and no. 7 of Søren Søndergaard (EL) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205130231	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205130245	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. The bill has been adopted unanimously by 109 votes. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205130308	The debate is primarily about the proposed amendment. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendment is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205130336	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (ALT and SF) and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of voting 15 (ALT, RV and SF), against voting 94 (S, DF, V, EL, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205130403	The debate is now about the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205130411	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. voted 98 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), against 10 (EL and LA), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205130449	Does anyone wish to speak? Sir. Pelle Dragsted, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205130503	On behalf of the Enhedslisten, we have tabled two amendments to this draft law on the recognition of religions. One is about equal treatment of so-called life-sighting societies, and the other is about the demand for democracy and equality that has so far been made when it comes to approving religions, but which is now being waived by the new law. Let me start with the first. In the Enhedslisten, as I also said at first reading, we basically do not believe that it is the task of the state to approve religions. Religious communities should be treated like other associations. They are free to be created without state approval and, of course, this also means that they must be treated in the same way as all other associations. They must not have special economic conditions, etc. etc. But as long as we maintain the idea of a state recognition of religions with special privileges, it is important for the Enhedslisten that the criteria for this recognition of different associations follow with time. And that's what we think this bill doesn't do, because you don't open up an equality between religions and societies of life, that is, associations of people with a view to life that are not based on a belief in gods or other transcendental powers, but as for example. Instead, it is based on the ideas of humanism and enlightenment. In Denmark, for example, they are: represented by what is called Humanist Society. It is a society of outlooks which has considerably more members than many of the recognised religions, and which therefore also likes, for example. will have the right to marry and will have the same duties and rights as the communities of faith. The draft law maintains the current rules, which mean that life-sighting societies will continue to be discriminated against because they grant special rights to religions which, as the draft law says, gather about belief in powers that are above human beings and natural laws. So if you believe in gods or elves, or whatever else you can imagine of supernatural things, then you get special rights, but if you don't believe in, for example. elves or other supernatural creatures or transcendental powers, then you do not have access to the same privileges. We think this is a problem in a secularly based society, which we all want to see as Denmark. It is also discrimination which is clearly contrary to the UN recommendations and which differs from what several of our neighbouring countries are doing. The UN's then special rapporteur on freedom of religion and belief visited Denmark in 2016, and there he emphasized, and I quote: By basing recognition and religious communities on faith in a transcendent power, Danish law differs from both European and international human rights. In Norway, there are long-standing equal societies of outlooks and, for example, in Norway. granted them the right to marry. In 2016, they made more than 700 humanistic marriages. The same is true, for example, in the United Kingdom. Iceland. It is therefore also very regrettable that in this draft law, the government is maintaining the discrimination against different societies of view of life, and that is why we have tabled an amendment which will ensure that societies of view of life are treated in the same way as religious religions. I would like to thank the alternative for supporting the proposal, but I also note from the report that there is no majority in favour of it. However, I think it is very positive that a number of parties are behind a contribution to the report which rejects this specific amendment, but at the same time opens up the possibility for us to look forwardly at the possibility of having equal societies of view of life with religious religions when it comes to rights and obligations. This is a major step forward and I would like to thank the Social Democrats, the SF and the Radicals for their contribution to this report. Our second amendment deals with the requirements to recognise religions and, of course, also with society of life if we get them into the package at some point. Since 2013, the approval of new religions has required them to meet certain democratic standards in order to obtain approval. It has been a requirement that the religion in question is organised in accordance with the principles of membership democracy and equal treatment. Specifically, it has meant that one could well have a religious leadership in a religion that could consist of e.g. a council of elders with only men, but that worldly leadership should be based on democratic principles of member democracy and equal rights for men and women. We believe in the Enhedslisten that when we now have state approval of religions, which also gives some special rights, we can, with good reason, lay down minimum requirements for those religions to meet the democratic standards of a modern society. That is why we also think that it is a strange step for the new law to drop this requirement, so that in future we do not make demands and thus give recognition to religions which are undemocratic and which discriminate against women. It is done away with because, as a result of the law, not only the new religions but also the old religions will be included, not least the Christians of the kind. I think that resolution also shows that our debate on religion is characterised by a good double standard. I have not been able to obtain a clear response from the government as to what led to the introduction of the democracy requirement in 2013, but I wonder if it was not part of recurring discussions of conditions in the Muslim religions. I think it is quite fine that Muslim religions are required to live up to democratic standards and to have gender equality. The Enhedslisten will support that at any time. But then it just doesn't matter that when the same rules suddenly run the risk of hitting the old religions, such as the United States. Christian free congregations or the Catholic Church, then suddenly you will not make those demands anymore. So either you are against those demands, or you are against them, and it does not look pretty at all that you suddenly back on your demands for democracy and equality just because it can hit our own old religions. That is why we have tabled an amendment which upholds the demands of Member democracy and equality that we have had so far, and I really think that it would suit the rapporteurs of the other parties to come up here and explain why they have suddenly changed their minds. I would really like to hear an explanation for that, because now it just looks like good old-fashioned double standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205131200	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205131205	Well, I have to say that in many ways this speech is some notorious nonsense and a deliberate distortion of what is the relationship. This bill is a coinage of section 69, which is about religions. The rapporteur misinterpreted and misquoted, by the way, because it is not called transcendental powers, it is called transcendent but just to get back to what is at the heart of this: in the sense of the constitution, a religion is a question of believing in God, finished. That is what we are discussing here. Everything else that has to be on the rapporteur's own account, and if the rapporteur would like to change it, then he must do so. But in this context, it's just nonsense.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205131257	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205131259	Now the definition of religions has actually evolved over time. In the past, for example, one should have had to have. Canonized writings, rituals, it is no longer a requirement. Over the years, there has been a gliding in the interpretation of what a religion is, and that's just what I'm suggesting, as you've done elsewhere, that you can change how you see it here. But for me, it is not really so important how we adopt it. That is also why I recognise that there has been a contribution to the report which says that, yes, it is actually relevant to look at whether we should equate societies of opinion with religions. So I am quite happy with that. I think you could do it in this law; if we could do it in another way, it would also be positive. I would like to hear the opinion of the Danish People's Party itself on whether those who do not believe in anything transcendent
ParlaMint-DK_20171205131354	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205131355	Now, I know that the Enhedslisten and the rapporteur believe in the Holy Trinity of Marx and Engels and Lenin. I really think it is rather strange that the rapporteur would like to be respected as a religion. Should the Enhedslisten be respected as a religious community? Is that what you want? I do not really understand the errand in that, because on the one hand you reject everything that has to do with faith, and on the other hand you want to be respected as a religion. It just doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205131424	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205131426	Yes, it makes so much sense that we have chosen to do so in many other countries, among others. in Norway, which in many ways is similar to Denmark. And no, of course the Enhedslisten should not be recognised as a religion; neither should the Danish People's Party, although they may be more often based on faith than on facts. There, of course, we have received a very clear and fine answer from the Minister, who explains what it is like to define a society of outlooks, for example. in Norway. And one of the criteria that is very clear is that it must not be associations, for example. is political and has as their main purpose to be political associations, but that it is therefore a definite society of outlooks which aims to bring together people who have a certain ethical look and a certain understanding that the relationship with the spiritual is, in principle, the driving force, just at a secular level. But there is a fine answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205131518	Thank you, sir. Pelle Dragsted. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur, who has asked for the floor, is Mr Seligman. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205131529	Well, it's a historic day that Enhedslisten would like to be recognized as a religion. I have to say. We've all known it was, but now we're gonna have a vision of legend, and it's gratifying. With regard to Enhedslisten's talk, I would like to say: Fact-based what we are discussing here is a coinage of Article 69 of the Constitution, which deals with the religions outside the church. A religion is, in the sense of the constitution, very specific, and if the rapporteur wants to be different, then one must come up with a resolution which redefines it, but so far it is as it is, and there are words and languages in force, and it is about transcendent powers or God, so to speak, very directly. That is not why I came up here on the platform; it was actually to say that I think that this debate on the religions outside the church has been important. I think it has been an unsightly and messy process, and there were many things that I really would have liked to have been informed about in a more precise and comprehensive way, among other things. on this with religiously neutral certificates and religiously neutral official stamps. Now I understand, and this was so clarified at first reading, that it is a question of having a stamp next to the traditional stamp and a certificate next to both birth, baptism and name certificates, which I think is an excellent idea or excellent and excellent? I would say that it is annoying that it is happening, but that is the way it has gone, and because of this debate I have not really seen any opportunity to oppose it, although I have been annoyed by it. Something else is that I have asked a question. After all, this whole legal complex is about the recognition of religions, and there I have not really been able to get a precise answer to what a withdrawal of recognition really means. For if an imam is guilty of calling for stoning, holy war or calls for other breaches of the penal code, what does that mean for the religion in question, where the imam is imam? I have tried, I think, to get some answers from the Minister, but I think that what I have been given has been such a bit of this with that it can be and one can do etc. and so on, but nothing about whether or not a process is actually being set in motion, which is about withdrawing this recognition. So here I think the answers have been too fluent. For us, it is absolutely crucial that a religion is examined in order that recognition can be withdrawn if it turns out that an imam in that religion is guilty of calling for stoning, terror, violence or other. The state must neither legitimise nor favour imams and religions morally and economically, if that is the case. So I would really like it if the Minister would step up here. In other words, we are generally positive about this bill, but on the other hand we would like to have firm promises that it is, of course, being investigated if an imam is guilty of violating the penal code, if not the religion in question is a side of the same coin, so that we can have clear evidence of how it is in that religion, that is, that we do not have Islamist movements that want to break down and wrap up our entire free order of society through terror, violence and threats; and that we should not help them by legitimising them and blue-stamping them by recognising them as religions, but by fighting them with beaks and claws. But those were the words, yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205132008	There are a number of brief comments. First, it's sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205132013	Thank you. Now that the rapporteur is referring to the Constitution, I would just like to draw attention to the answer to Question No. 5 to the draft law, which states that the Constitution does not prevent the same rights and duties as religions from being conferred on societies of the view of life. It's just that we agree that there is no constitutional problem in it. But I really wanted to ask you something else. I can hear that the rapporteur is very concerned about the fact that there must be limits and rules for these religions, and we in the Enhedslist fully agree with that. When we give people some rights, some demands must also be included. However, I also do not understand why the Danish People's Party will help to remove the requirement that religious communities should live up to minimum democratic standards of gender equality in the worldly leadership of religious communities. What has suddenly led the Danish People's Party to back up here? Well, now it's suddenly okay with deeply patriarchal religions, where it's the men who decide and women don't have the right to make decisions. All of a sudden, it's okay now. That might be interesting to know. Because that is not usually the line of the Danish People's Party when we talk about the Muslim religions.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205132118	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205132119	I would like to say to the first of all, to make a comment on the fact that this whole discussion with Mr. Christian Juhl, who had taken over the first reading, was about first raping down on the church and then having no relationship at all with what we actually dealt with, namely that it is a coinage of section 69 that is about religions. Then Enhedslisten can come up with their own definitions... they often do... and it must then account for Enhedslisten's own expense. I just don't want to be involved in this on the basis of a factual historical context that we are discussing here. Secondly, over the years the Catholic Church has acquired historical rights and historical recognition. I must honestly admit that I would have liked Luther to have overcome the entire Church of the Pope and all its creatures. I would have liked to have seen that. But now it is just the case with the history of the Catholic Church in Denmark that you cannot first give them a historical recognition, as you have done, and then withdraw it again.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205132230	Thank you. Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205132233	Well, it is a good thing that the rapporteur feels this way historically, but there is a double standard in this. I should like to ask the rapporteur: if, now, it was a Muslim religion which had won the privilege of being allowed to discriminate against women in this way or otherwise would not live up to some democratic minimum rights, would the rapporteur have the same view that we had to ignore that? Why should religions now suddenly be opened up, which we have been able to reject in the past?
ParlaMint-DK_20171205132312	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205132313	I clearly believe that there are some historical reasons why the Catholic Church is recognised in Denmark. If the rapporteur thinks otherwise, then it is an honest matter. I have no reason to go out and defend the Catholic Church... no one! But everyone knows that it is built on the papal institution and that it should then make it necessary for us to withdraw the recognition of the religions. So there are some historical reasons why we say one thing and some historical reasons why we say the other. That's how the reality is so quirky.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205132346	Then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205132349	Thank you. In fact, I think this is a very interesting discussion. And now the rapporteur himself referred to this example of reading from the Koran and so on, so I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur has some fundamental considerations in relation to reading from those parts of the Bible that are not for children, so to speak, about murder, rape, incest and other things. There are many inner - missionary people in my family, so I have had the children's Bible many times. And I think that some of this is very colourful, so I would just like to ask: does the rapporteur have a general view of things in the books that some people regard as sacred, in that some books are allowed to read things from which some people do not like, and others are not allowed?
ParlaMint-DK_20171205132438	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205132439	Well, now we're in the theology, and I think it's interesting that the questioner has some very inner missionary relatives that's fine, excellent. But what we are discussing here is that in ordinary Evangelical-Luthorian child learning, Christian child learning, the Christian understanding of both the old and the new will goes through Christ. And the things that don't, as it were, preach him are left behind. It's always been like that. If we then take the Koran, it is the Koran that goes through Muhammad, and then we are somewhere else, because it is a law book, and it is a requirement that the Sharia Law be introduced, and there are commandments of jihad and everything else. I would say that is not something I see in the New Testament. It is like fire and water to compare the New Testament with the Koran.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205132540	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205132542	But I am just asking about the very concrete fact that if you read some very old books very closely, you can find in many of them something that we in no way find acceptable today, and you can do so in the Bible as well as in the Koran. So I just want to ask, in principle, whether, in the rapporteur's optics, we can read things from the Bible, which can also be found in the Koran. the Old Testament.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205132611	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205132612	Yes, but then I try to give a relevant and factual answer to what's the difference. That is simply what this is all about. And that is why we do not read at church service anything that has to do with holy war. It doesn't happen. I mean, I've been a priest since 2000, and I've never done it. But if the rapporteur can make some correction to my point of view, I would like to hear it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205132640	Well, then, sir. Kim Christiansen asked for the floor, but he is not present. So we move on to Mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205132650	Now people who have received a priestly education have the right to freely interpret what they are experiencing in the world, and I would therefore like to recommend to people who think that I have taken charge of the church at first reading to rewind and look at that debate. It was a very serious debate. I have nothing against the church, and I do not even have any criticisms that I would like to raise here or out in the ordinary community. It's just for general enlightenment when the reverend mentions it from the platform. Then I would like to hear about the historical recognition of the Catholic Church. Does the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party believe that the bill says that we should ban the Catholic Church? That's not how I read it. I read that there have been some demands, some democratic demands for gender equality and for a democratic structure of the secular part of the leadership, not the ecclesiastical part of the leadership, but the secular part. That's how I understand the bill. Is that wrong?
ParlaMint-DK_20171205132753	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205132754	I would like to say now that the rapporteur, and one can see this, was pounding against the relationship between the state and the church, as if that were what we were debating at first reading. So it's pretty safe, and then he spent the last third maybe and not more than half talking about this bill. It may be that we disagree with how it should be interpreted, but I have the view of the Catholic Church that it has acquired rights for historical reasons, and that is what this is about for me. And it has to be said that the papal church, with all its creatures that I do not like, and I do not like the papal institution, stands in the way of it being able to go under these things of equal treatment and gender, etc. That is clear enough because the papal institution has celibates. I did not think I would stand here on the floor of the Parliament defending the papal institution, which seems rather foreign to me, but we are now discussing a historically acquired right.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205132904	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205132906	That does not alter the fact that I did not get an answer to my question, i.e. whether the rapporteur believes that this proposal prohibits the Catholic Church. The Catholic Church could, of course, without any problems, like everyone else, for example. the people's church, making its worldly leadership on the basis of democratic principles. That would be possible. I spoke to one of the representatives of the conference we had the other day about these issues, and he was, of course, in the first place dismissive because he wanted to keep the old position. However, I just think that this is about the rapporteur not being able to figure out how to deal with the Catholic Church or the Islamic faith and therefore wandering around in things. They both have historical roots.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205132945	Then it is the rapporteur to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205132948	Now I'm not the one who's wandering around, sir. Christian Juhl. I say how I behave, and there it is sometimes so believe it or don't think that there are some historical reasons that are given because we have the common history that we have and that makes us behave in a certain way. The same is true of the Mosaic religion in Denmark, which has an old tradition that is woven in relation to Denmark's recent history, and there is of course something that applies there, I fully acknowledge that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205133024	Then it's Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205133027	Thank you. I would just like to ask the rapporteur something, because this is somewhere about who judges the interpretation of others' or their own religious texts. That is why we could ask the rapporteur a specific question: if the rapporteur literally interprets the texts of Islam and understands them so that all Muslims want Sharia legislation to be introduced, should we also interpret the texts of the Bible literally and understand them so that all Christians want women to take three steps behind men?
ParlaMint-DK_20171205133104	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205133106	I think there is something the rapporteur is confusing here, because one is of course the texts, and another is the people who believe in the texts. And there's a difference. Of course. It's self-evident. Well, I could never dream of questioning that. I just state basically that in Islam there are some texts about jihad, which have driven Islam forward, which have caused an Islamic expansion to take place already from Muhammad's time, when he takes over the entire Arabian Peninsula, and in the time after the Muslims penetrate Europe and stand up at Poitiers in 734. And it's going so fast (flicks with your fingers And it's so to say a very small historical period where Islam spreads through jihad. That is what I see. And I also note that Islam has built itself into the very idea of Sharia, a religion of law, where everything has, so to speak, been spun into religious rules from top to bottom.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205133217	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205133219	Thank you. I have another question in relation to the historical argument. For example, in the case of: The justification of Catholicism in Denmark is of course interesting in that, in spite of this, it can be said that the lack of equality for the religion, at least in relation to the preaching people, is justified by the rapporteur and that may be very true. I have not, in fact, appealed against that here in relation to the historical relevance, i.e. that Catholicism has been in Denmark for many years. Will there be an historic limit to when the rapporteur can then also respect Islam on an equal footing, for example? Catholicism as part of a legitimate religion in Denmark, when it has been present as part of our society for many years?
ParlaMint-DK_20171205133302	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205133304	Yeah, but that's such a counter-productive way of putting things up. But I just remind you that both jihad and Sharia are quite present in our society. It is not about the individual Muslim, but it is about the integrated part of Islam that Sharia and jihad are. And that's kind of what I saw in all silence pointing out. So the question is whether we can achieve some kind of reconciliation in the future. Maybe you can. Well, that's what time has to show.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205133339	Then it's mr. Anders Stjernholm, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205133343	Hey, everybody. I would like to hear from the rapporteur: when you say that we should try to deal with hate preacher talk from the various pulpits around, is it only external violence, or is it also if there are preachers who are talking about internal psychological or physical violence in their different religions?
ParlaMint-DK_20171205133406	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205133407	Now we're getting pretty far around, because what are we talking about now? I would say that there are also political ideologies that I would regard as internal violence. I would say that there have also been revolutionary ideologies on the left that have resorted to direct violence. Then there is internal violence, but what is internal violence? Then we start to talk about it from some Freudian depth psychology, where we can then begin to define what violence is. I think we're going too far.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205133442	Sir. Anders Stjernholm, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205133444	I'm sorry, so let me be specific. Let us say that it is an elder within Jehovah's Witnesses who asks a family to turn their backs on a child who has left the faith.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205133456	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205133457	I would like to say straight away: I do not like Jehovah's Witnesses. It's really very simple. I don't.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205133509	Thank you, sir. Christian Langballe. Then it's Mrs. Karen J. Klint.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205133520	Thank you. Allow me to remind you that we have a different reading of the legislative proposal and therefore also a debate on some amendments. I shall then repeat, in the wake of the debate that has taken place, that this is the first legislative time that the Folketing has taken a position on other religions. Therefore, the Folketing has never legislated before on what practices should be in relation to the concepts of recognition and approval of other religions. It has been a separate committee which has advised the Minister on this; we have not legislated on this before. That is why we have not been aware politically of the level of detail to be given. Should one have congregational councils, and should one have the ditto and the date? After all, we have allowed ourselves to legislate on this for the Church of the People. As a Social Democrat, I would also have liked us to have used the promise clause a few years ago to legislate together on a renewed and more transparent structure in the area of the people's church. There was no majority for that then, but we can hope that it will come at a later date. Back to the bill we are discussing today. As I have said, this is the first time we have legislated on approval procedures for religions outside the church. What we, as Social Democrats, SFs and Radicals, have said is that we continue to want to have religions and societies of outlook in two different legislations, because we do not have a formal definition of what we mean by a society of vision of life in Denmark. We would like to go into this debate to consider: What can be a society of outlooks, and what cannot be a society of outlooks? Do they need some privileges? And what are the privileges, and what are the requirements and duties? They have had that debate in some other countries, but we have just not had it in Denmark, and that is the debate we invite to take before we go in and possibly legislate on it. That is why we say that we want to look at it, and it may well be that it has to go through the same process with a broad working group as we have had here. We have both had a popular debate, but we have also had some knowledgeable people and some other people to look at what new legislation on the church could look like. And then we have had a special committee that has looked at how comprehensive legislation on the other religions can look like just based on the text contained in the Constitution. That is what we are dealing with today. It is therefore the first time that we in the Danish Parliament have taken a position on a single piece of legislation on the religions outside the church. We would like to lend our support to this. Then there has been the difference between what the working group came up with and what the Minister has proposed, namely the legislative proposal which has been submitted for consultation. And this is the legislative proposal that has been submitted for consultation that we are taking a position on, and not what the working group came up with. So we take a position on the bill, which we recommend with the technical changes made by the Minister and then with the promise that we would like to engage in dialogue on how we in Denmark can define what a society of outlooks can be.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205133839	There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205133842	Thank you very much. And again thank you for the sign of wanting to look at the position of life-sighting societies. After all, there has been a very good answer to question 2, which is about how to define life-sight communities in Norway, where you have these rights. It says, for example, that they must address key issues related to human life; that they relate to key ethical issues and try to see them in context. And as I said before, it must not be political parties or organisations that have other purposes. I would really like to hear the rapporteur's views on this definition, which is reflected in that answer. And then I would also like to know whether I should understand the contribution of this report as a will that we should soon, for example, in. The Committee on Churches is discussing how we can move forward on the issue of the duties and rights of life-view societies.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205133936	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205133937	When we say that we want to look at it, it is because we are not locked on our positions. So I do not want to say that we have to end up with a definition that is exactly equal to what is in Norway or Sweden. That would be to start from behind. I think we need a specialist group, a special expert group, to look into it. Whether this is a matter for the Committee on Churches or the Committee on Culture or for the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport, I have not taken a position in advance either. So let us have a debate on what form of investigation we are going to start. Is it a working party under a committee? At least now we have a combined minister, so it is the same minister who is going to look at it. I think we could go to a rapporteur's meeting and move on. But we haven't locked ourselves on how to move on. We just think that the time has come to clarify this.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205134024	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205134026	I think that sounds positive at the outset. I find it difficult to see why it should not be in the Committee on Churches; when, among other things, it should be in the Committee on Churches. is about marriage authorization and other things, it's probably where it's gonna end up. So I hope that we can follow up on this if only I promise that I will contact the rapporteurs of the parties behind this report to discuss how we can address it. So let us move on to the next amendment to which the rapporteur is not really referring. Social democracy has also been quite advanced in the shoes when it comes to taking action against Muslim religions and some of the events that have taken place. And again, we in the Enhedslist fully agree that demands must be made, but why the Social Democrats are now backing up these demands for democracy and equality, I do not think we have got a good answer to.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205134115	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205134118	I believe that the rapporteur is guilty of comparing two things that cannot be compared. Because the democratic demands that the rapporteur is asking about are not demands that have been made on others. The bill we have here today, L 19, concerns all religions, whether you are a Muslim, a Christian, a Jewish, or what you are outside the church. So there's no difference at all. What I think is alluded to is the decorum requirements that came into what some called the Imam Act, and the demands were not so in the draft legislation that was discussed in the Church Committee. That is why I say: let us now look at how we can do it wisely when we are discussing life-sighting societies. What standing committee is that supposed to be?
ParlaMint-DK_20171205134159	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205134203	Yes, because then I get the chance to ask: what does the rapporteur really think about the requirement to demand equality and to demand democratic secular leadership of the various religions? After all, it is not only life-sight communities that must be made democratically demanding, but also religions.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205134226	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205134227	There is no doubt that all religions that are approved in Denmark and have the right of marriage must comply with the country's legislation. I do not know whether the equality law has been changed, so it says that other religions should not keep the law. There have been some things in relation to the church where there have been some opportunities, but there we have introduced female priests. Personally, as rapporteur, I do not agree that we should make detailed legislation in the same way as we have detailed legislation on the church of the people, for other religions. That seems to me to be binding on us, which we do not need to deal with politically. For me, it is enough for other religions to abide by the laws of the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205134304	- Do you want to see him? - Yes, sir. Christian Juhl word?
ParlaMint-DK_20171205134307	He's gonna try that again, yeah. In other words, the Social Democratic Party and the rapporteur disagree with demanding that, for example, the worldly leadership of religions must be carried out without democratic rules and equal treatment must be taken into account? The rapporteur does not think that we can demand this?
ParlaMint-DK_20171205134328	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205134329	What I said was that, for example, we did. has commanded the church to have democratic congregational councils. I don't think we need to give that to other religions because they have some other structures. That is where I think the state should take a step back from time to time in relation to the communities of faith, even a step backwards, which I might well imagine some of the rapporteurs who have asked questions here should also be done in relation to the church of the people.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205134356	Then it's mr. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205134359	It's just that Enhedslisten, as usual, is messing around in it. I would just like to ask whether it is not true that, in relation to the Catholic Church, the spiritual leadership and worldly leadership of the Catholic Church fall in a single place, namely in the papal institution, and that is what makes it problematic, because now that the Catholic Church has acquired some historical rights in relation to Denmark, it would be strange to withdraw recognition in the way that otherwise one would have had to do if these two passages had gone in. I'm saying that who doesn't like the papal church at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205134440	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205134441	Well, as rapporteur, I have no problem with the fact that it is not one hundred per cent of the proposals sent by the Minister in consultation from the committee. This is the legislative proposal that has been submitted to a hearing to which I am referring and to which I support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205134501	Thank you for that and thank you to Mrs Karen J. Klint. Then it's the church minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205134520	Thank you for that and thank you for the debate. It is not often that we have a long debate at second reading, but these are important issues at stake here. I welcome the fact that we are finally, at last, having legislation put in place that deals with communities of faith outside the church. What is, after all, the whole purpose of this law complex is to guarantee freedom of belief and religion in Denmark, not to restrict it. I think that what is happening with all this legislation is that we have a clear understanding of the rights and duties of the recognised religions. I think that these are interesting questions that are being raised and I will try to answer them in the order in which they have been asked. First of all, I would like to say something to the Enhedslisten, who is asking about it with the life-sight communities. After all, there are a number of rapporteurs who have been on the platform and explained the principle that I share, namely that religions have a clear definition of, we do not have a clear definition of, and we do not have a clear definition of. When I have spoken to representatives of life-sight communities, I have among other things. also discussed with them whether they really think it is respectful that what they stand for should be included in legislation which deals with religions. If anyone wants to raise these issues about the legislation for life-sight communities, then I am quite open to discussing it. I think it requires thorough preparation. We have actually taken several years to prepare the legislation here on the religions outside the church, but if anyone wants us to discuss life-sight communities and the rights and duties of societies of life, then I would like to have a very open discussion about it. That's relevant. It is being discussed in many countries around us, so there will be no resistance from here if anyone wants us to discuss it. Then there is the question of demanding democracy and equality. It has also been a very relevant discussion to raise, I think, and this is actually the only point where we do not follow the advice that has been given to us by the committee, which has been sitting and preparing the legislation. The reason why we have chosen not to follow it has also been shown by some of the other speakers, and it is that there will in fact be religious communities that have been in our society for very, very many years, which can no longer be recognised, as it will be called after the new legislation. I think there is a need for a pragmatic approach to this. Had it been up to me, I would have thought that one could have landed the pragmatic one, if one could have said now that since 2013 there has been the practice in the committee which advises the church minister on the recognition of new religions that equal treatment and membership democracy are required, that it is then from the time the new legislation comes into force that we are making these demands forward. But we simply cannot; it has been tested by the Ministry of Justice. And when you make legislation, it is legislation that includes the religions that are in our country. So it is a pragmatic solution that is on it. I believe that everyone who sits in this Parliament is in favour of equal treatment and member democracy. It is also enshrined in a lot of other legislation in our society, so it is a pragmatic solution to it. One may think it is too bad; one may think it is unreasonable. I think that the price of having to implement it in this legislation, which would be that religions, which have been part of our society completely unproblematic for many years, should no longer be recognised in our society. So that is the reason for it. Then Mr. Christian Langballe the question of the withdrawal of recognition. I think that is also a very relevant question to ask. It will be the case under the new legislation that when one is recognised as a religion, there are, in fact, no rights taken into account, such as: the authorisation of the marriage. Marriage authorization is something that is given to the individual who has to do the wedding, and it follows his very own procedure on these things. Then there may be cases where someone who has such a wedding authorisation or a preacher does something that is not to be done. It is, of course, quite explicit what legislation is to be observed in our country. If anyone is guilty of this, then it will be perfectly natural and clear that it is punishable as part of religious education to approve, for example. terrorism and killing and rape and violence and incest and paedophilia and detention and coercion and bigami etc. What is happening with recognition is that we have an opportunity to go in and make sure that the recognised religions actually live up to the conditions to which they have to live up to in order to have recognition. So the procedure will be carried out on the basis of the general administrative and administrative requirements, for example. Party consultation. This means that an entire religion is not immediately deprived of recognition because there is a minister who has violated our law. I don't think so either, sir. Christian Langballe would think was a good idea. Unfortunately, we also have cases where publishers of that religion, as both Mr. Christian Langballe and I belong to, the church of the people, have broken the law. This does not mean that it will have consequences for the entire church as such. So it will be our new opportunity to go in and withdraw recognition if it turns out that there are grounds for this. And I think that is a very great step forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205135129	There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205135132	Thank you very much to the Minister for your constructive approach to the debate. To start with the question of the society of outlook: should I understand the Minister's statement so that the government or the minister himself will take the initiative to look at this area? Or is the Minister waiting for the parties that have made this contribution to the report, or the Enhedslisten, to take the initiative?
ParlaMint-DK_20171205135200	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205135201	I will not take the initiative. But if anyone wants to take this up for discussion, I would very much like to go into it. After all, we need to find out where it should be, that is to say in which resort, and we need to get work started, such as this. I'm gonna do this with the definitions. Recently I had the pleasure of meeting with Humanist Society, and there I had to ask them what humanism really is. After all, I have been working on philosophy for ten years of my life, and I know how many different discussions and definitions there are on the concept of humanism, so we have to go into that. It may be that one should be inspired by how the definition is in Norway. It may also be necessary to work with other definitions, but I will not take the initiative myself.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205135245	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205135248	Thank you. It was just to get that clarification. And I actually think that the definitions chosen in Norway look very reasonable and could give inspiration. Perhaps I would like to know what the Minister's own party thinks about this issue, if you can be so direct. Then I should also like to hear something about the second question, that of the vindictive right and the historical one. I understand the argument and pragmatism. But surely it is not the case that because, if I may say so, for many, many years there have been structures that we have not liked, or there has been an injustice of some kind against a minority, in this case women, we must automatically accept it forever.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205135328	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205135329	To take the last thing first: No, there is no logic at all about that; it is nothing that, if I may say so, has fallen from the sky. In this case, however, we have chosen the pragmatic approach to it. The consequence is as it is, and it is entirely legitimate to disagree with it. In relation to the first question which concerned the Liberal Alliance's view of life-sighting societies, I would say that we simply have not yet had the opportunity to discuss this. But we will, of course, be able to do so if someone takes up the subject at a later stage, and then I will come back with an answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205135403	Then it's mr. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205135409	Well, I don't know why we suddenly have to follow the Enhedslisten agenda and start discussing lifestyle societies when there's something they obviously haven't understood in this discussion. But I would like to make it clear that we are not in favour of this. It's just to pre-discount the further progress of the discussion. I would also like to make it clear, because perhaps I did not make that clear enough, that we think that all that religiously neutral stamps and certificates are nonsense. But if a solution can be found in which the church maintains that there are the common stamps for the members of the church and where the Mosaic religion, because we take over the civil registration from among others. The Mosaic Faith Society can get a religiously neutral stamp again from some historical point of view about the recognised rights of the Mosaic Faith Society in Denmark, so we recognise it as a relatively pragmatic solution, even if we do not like it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205135518	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205135520	That is absolutely correct. So, the reason for the discussion about the stamps is that there are, in fact, 11 old recognised religions that have so far kept ministerial books, as it says. We are now taking this over as part of the general civil registration, and these religions have asked for them to be exempted from having the stamps of the church on these certificates, which are now issued by some others. So that is the completely pragmatic approach to it. Compared with the members of the church, there is no change of stamp.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205135553	- Do you want to see him? - Yes, sir. Christian Langballe the word? No. Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205135557	Thank you. I would also like to thank the Minister for taking part in the second reading. It is also the intention of the second reading that when the committee has had its first meeting after the big debate, you can adjust and try to see if there are new opportunities. That is why we have tabled amendments. It is just not tradition, but I hope that it could be a very good tradition for us to use the second reading to take the next steps. Because I think this debate has just brought us a little bit further. With regard to the pragmatic solutions of democracy and equality, the Minister mentioned that there are plenty of other legislation regulating that area, so I would like to ask the Minister what other legislation regulates lifestyle... uh, sorry, sir. Reverend, that is, the internal democracy of the faith societies. I can't think of any legislation touching this area, so there's nothing we can lean on here. If we want to create democracy within the faith communities, should we really demand it in the legislation? Is that not right?
ParlaMint-DK_20171205135659	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205135659-2	Yes. Then I have not expressed myself correctly, because what I mean or refer to when I say that we have a lot of legislation governing these things is, in fact, the provisions of the penal code on religious education. So that's something else I answered. I'm sorry if I haven't put it precisely enough. So that's that part of it. Now I have grown so tired in my head that I have forgotten what the other was if there was anything else in the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205135725	But that's what Mr. Christian Juhl now the opportunity to tell. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205135729	It was only that, if we do not have to, if we want democracy and equality to be demanded within the faith communities outside the church, to put it into this legislation in order for it to be effective at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205135745	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205135746	Yes, but we have deliberately chosen not to do so. It is the case that we have a regulation of our own church, which, in fact, makes more demands in some areas than will then be put to the faith communities outside the church. However, since what has been intended with the faith communities outside the popular church has been primarily to guarantee freedom of worship and freedom of religion in Denmark, I think, in my view at least, that it is acceptable to have the additional arm's length tax. The last thing I want to say is that we must remember that it is not a requirement that we should be recognised in Denmark, even after the new legislation. You can form all the religions you want without any form of registration of anything. This is, of course, part of living in a society that is democratic and in which we have freedom of belief.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205135841	Thank you, Minister. Is there anyone else who wishes to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205135851	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (ALT) and can be voted on. The vote will end. in favour of 15 (EL and ALT), against 92 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 3 and 6, tabled and joined by the same minorities, lapsed. Then we shall vote on Amendment No. 4 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (ALT) and can be voted on. The vote will end. In favour of 15 (EL and ALT), against 93 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 1 and 7-10, tabled and joined by the same minority, lapsed. If we want to vote on Amendment No 1, we will vote on Amendment No 3. 5 and 11, elected by a majority (the committee except DF)? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205140013	Then there's a single small service message. It is the case that the last vote was scheduled to be here under item 6 of the agenda. It's not. There will also be a vote on item 15 of the agenda. I'm gonna turn the "A" off, but I'm gonna turn it back on, so don't run too far away. In paragraph 15, votes will again be taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205140040	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205140057	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (ALT and SF) and can be voted on. The vote is closed. In favour of 19 (EL, ALT and SF), against 88 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF) abstentions 0. Amendment No. 1 has been rejected. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205140140	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205140205	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205140234	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It has been adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205140257	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205140325	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205140356	Does anyone wish to speak? The Minister for the Environment does. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205140409	Thank you. I would just like to make one comment on one aspect of our change: the so-called'should' rule, which has caused some debate in some places. Some are of the opinion that a change to the hunting code would allow for the hunting of animals that have kids, and I would just like to correct that here. We would never dream of allowing that. As a starting point, the amendment concerns a rule of the hunting law, which today actually has no legal significance in determining hunting seasons, since the rule only uses the word should instead of, for example, hunting seasons. - - - - - - - - or - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - The "Childer' rule is therefore purely indicative and it is already possible today to set hunting time within the period 1 February to 31 August. There are, for example, the current situation. hunting time on the crown calf in February and hunting time on the roar from 16 May to 15 July. During the period 1 February to 31 August there is a wide variation in breeding time for different species. For the huntable mammals, there will thus be a great difference between when they have the breeding season. Especially at the beginning and end of the should period, you are outside the breeding season for a number of huntable mammals. The government sees no reason to have a written rule that has no function in practice, and therefore we are now changing the rules so that they more clearly reflect practice. It is stated that the government and the Danish People's Party will authorise the hunting of breeding animals. So that is not correct. The repeal of the •shoulder rule will not provide new opportunities to set hunting for huntable mammals during the breeding season. There will still have to be the exact same assessment as today of whether a species can be hunted. This includes an assessment of whether hunting can interfere with other species and the inclusion of hunting grounds, including not hunting during periods when the species is cramped. It will thus continue to be part of the consideration of setting hunting time, whether each game needs special protection in parts of the year, for example. during the breeding season, or for other special reasons, e.g. that there is a shortage of food, just as is happening today. So we are changing a symbolic rule, but in practice we are not going to change the procedure for setting hunting times.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205140624	There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205140627	Thank you. I do not understand that when you ask the Minister or the hunters or some of the parties that are on the target of this amendment to the law, the clear message is that you do not want hunting during the breeding season. But one removes a rule that may, perhaps, not provide protection for the animals, precisely in relation to the fact that there should be no hunting during the breeding season. Why not introduce a rule in order to establish in law the position that the Minister has expressed here today, namely that there should be no hunting during the breeding season, because that protection does not exist in the legislation today? I am quite open to the fact that climate change means changed breeding times, and therefore it is possible to make exemptions. I am quite open to the fact that there are animal species that can be hunted during breeding because, for example, the male does not participate in breeding. So there are examples where exemption is quite appropriate, but if the Minister and the parties behind the law and the hunters are of the opinion that there should be no hunting in the breeding season as a starting point, why not make that protection in the legislation? I simply do not understand that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205140727	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205140729	Because we simply regard it as unnecessary. It is not a question of having that practice today, nor should we have that practice. There is a high degree of ethics about hunting in Denmark, and therefore we find it completely unnecessary to have to write it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205140745	Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205140747	For other reasons, social democracy is not part of this complex of laws, but I would just like to urge that consideration be given to whether it is not necessary to provide legal protection to avoid hunting during the breeding season. In a lot of other cases, it is the case that we are legislation on something that we are currently in agreement on, in order to ensure that it is fixed in time, also beyond the minister who is at the moment and the Parliament that is at present. So if you agree that there should be no hunting during the breeding season, then I think you should secure it in the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205140822	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205140822-2	That's a perfectly legal point of view. I do not share the need for this to be confirmed. Today we have a rule which is superfluous, and that is why we are removing it. There are no hunters who have an interest in contributing to the practice described by the rapporteur, who could be a source of it and therefore I see no reason to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205140841	I have some doubts as to whether Mr. Christian Poll has asked for the floor. No. Then we thank the Minister. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205140854	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-4, elected by a majority (DF, V, LA and KF)? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205140915	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205140929	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205140945	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205141002	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-4, elected by a majority (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF)? They are adopted. It has been proposed that the bill be referred back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205141016	This is where we have to vote, and that is how we have to give a little more time so that everyone can get back to the Chamber. We can start the negotiations, but we wait approx. Five minutes to vote. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote. We wait approx. Four minutes before we proceed to the vote. We can proceed with the votes.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205141104	Amendments to L 13 will be put to the vote first: Amendment No 13 will be put to the vote. 1-3, elected by the Committee? They have been adopted. 5 of a minority (S and DF), joined by ALT, SF and RV, and can be voted on. The vote will end. In favour 74 (S, DF, EL, ALT, RV, SF and 1 LA) voted against 31 (V, LA, KF), [no votes for or against 0]. The amendment has been adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 4 and 6 of the same minority (S and DF), joined by a minority (ALT, SF and RV) which together constitute a majority? They are adopted. The vote will then be taken on the amendments to the L 14: requested vote on Amendment No. 1-6, member of the Committee? They are adopted. We shall then proceed to the vote on the amendments to the L 15: request for a vote on Amendment No. 1 to 5, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205141639	The debate is open. Then we need to calm down, because now we are starting the debate on L 114. And the first rapporteur to speak is Mr Beazley. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205141716	We need to adopt a completely new legislative proposal, a new law, in which a large part of the content today lies in other legal complexes. That makes a lot of sense, and that is why I would like to start by saying that the Social Democrats support this bill. The bill is about radiation protection. As the headline also says, the ionizing radiation • others may know it as radiation. We have it in our society where it is necessary. The majority of radioactive radiation is used in our health care, where it helps patients so that they can be diagnosed and given the treatment that is necessary. But we also use ionizing or radioactive radiation in some places in our industrial production. What is crucial and what is the reason for having a law in this area is that there is a danger associated with radioactive radiation. I think most people are familiar with that. Those who have experienced treatment in the hospital also know that measures are being taken in relation to the protection of both the staff and the patients to be exposed. And that is why the draft law also states, and nothing has actually changed in this area, that the use of sources and the exposure to radiation must take place only if the health, economic, social or other benefits of the use of radiation exposure outweigh the disadvantages. This is a really, very important principle, and it is also one of the things we have committed ourselves to in international agreements, and also that which is related to the directive that will be part of this legal complex that we need to implement, so that we have to take all the necessary considerations into account in relation to irradiation. But we're putting it together in a new law complex. We take elements from old laws • legislation on X-ray radiation back from 1930, another is the law on radioactive substances from 1953 and now it is all being put into a new unified legislation. It provides a really fine modernisation, and it also makes it manageable, both politically and administratively, in the future. In relation to what I said about the fact that we must always be sure that there is the right justification for the use of radiation, I would say that, in the same way, there are requirements, and there are constantly demands, for optimization, in relation to the extent to which one is exposed to radiation, must be kept as low as possible. Another incredibly important principle is that the dose should be reduced, and that is why it is also highly specialised functions, for example. in our health care system. So when you are going to have radioactive radiation with ionising rays, consumption must be as controlled and as low as possible. The bill here has been in consultation. No critical response has been given. There is one point about what is also an element of the legislation, precisely that a higher fee should be recovered, because there will be some costs associated with this change, and the money will have to be paid by those who use X-rays or ionising rays. And I have noticed that Danske Regionser says that they expect them to pay more, and we all know where that money is to come from. So that must be an implicit part of it. Overall, I would say that this is a good legislative proposal. It provides a collection, and it provides clarity in this area, and it deserves an area like this where we must all have vigilance with us. I also think that the legislation is fine when it comes to the fact that those who carry out these tasks, both in everyday life and also in the monitoring functions of it, know that now they are simply referring to a single law that covers everything that is here, including what is in the directive from the European Union. And these are tasks that need to be implemented in Danish legislation. The Social Democratic Party supports this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205142142	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then we move on to Mrs Liselott Blixt, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205142150	Thank you very much. When I had to bring the briefcase to this bill, I had to take half the paperwork out because it was very extensive. It is a very complicated legislative proposal, but it deals with something that we surround ourselves with every day. At the same time, however, I also think that this is something we need to deal with. And I have a lot of questions for the bill. It is, of course, important and right, as the rapporteur for the Social Democrat Party said, that it is two legislative proposals, an EU directive plus an old bill of 1930 which has been merged into this bill. It is about ionising radiation, as stated in the radiation protection directive, and we must ensure that we do not get more of that radiation than is good. We know that a lot of that we get out in the wild. We get it from the radon gas, and we also get it from X-rays plus radioactive waste, and that is something that we also occasionally discuss from above. Some of the points that are pointed out in some of the consultation answers given are how to record the dose that you get from what you work with, i.e. what X-rays you get. There I think we need some answers from the Minister on how to ensure that patients do not get an over-irradiation. It appears from various evidence studies that, for example, children can get radiation-induced cancer from common CT scans. But nobody really knows how much radioactivity and radiation we can tolerate as human beings. We just know that, for example. children are more harmed by it than adults. That is why you ensure that you do not x-ray children as much as older people. That is why I am also surprised that when I asked the Minister about the radioactive waste, which is at Esbjerg Harbour, and which Mærsk is the author of, I was told that if you come cycling and puncture right out in front of the barrels, you get just a dose equivalent to one millisievert that you can't get sick of. I simply do not think that the Minister is taking account of the fact that we have here some barrels that may have leaked. And I don't know how the minister would feel if whoever came cycling might be a child. Because you cannot say that you get sick from it or that it is carcinogenic at the time, because it takes many years before you get sick from it. That's one of the reasons why we're trying not to do so much X-ray radiation. We're looking out for kids. We have talked a lot about the radioactive waste from Risø, and now we are standing with these barrels at Esbjerg Harbour. And that is where I hope that this radiation protection directive can now give clear guidelines on how a source of radioactive waste is to ensure that it does not just stand and flow in the open, and that there are some who work with it and know what to do about it, instead of giving insecurity to the citizens who are around it. At the same time, I also believe that we should look at what others are pointing out, namely that some of those who work with X-ray equipment need to have a radio pass because they work there, where there is precisely this danger of too high a radiation dose, because none of us knows how much we can tolerate. Then it may be that you can make fun of it. And you can say that it is now well wrapped, no matter what it is, and now we take good care of it, because then nothing happens. I am also puzzled by a response from the hearing answers that points out that when you look at what X-ray equipment we use in our hospitals, you say: Well, if it is too expensive to get the best, where you don't get as much effect from it, then that's the price you're looking at, not the amount of radiological radiation. So I have some questions about this bill. As I said, it is very complex and there are many aspects to the matter. We do not know what will be in the notice; that is what I shall examine. Otherwise, we are glad that there will be a legislative proposal in this area, but perhaps the very things that make the individual citizen safe are missing.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205142637	Thank you to Mrs Liselott Blixt. We move on to Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205142644	Every day we humans are exposed to radiation. It's completely impossible to prevent. Radiation comes from several different sources, both the natural and the man-made. We distinguish between ionizing radiation and non-ionizing radiation. The ionizing radiation comes, for example. From outer space, from X-rays and from radioactive products. While non-ionizing radiation comes from e.g. microwave ovens or mobile phones. The natural radiation comes from the earth's crust, from radon and from our food. Some radiation we humans can well sense and feel, for example. light, while there are other radiation we immediately cannot feel. Just think of the X-rays we know from the doctor or dentist. Radiation that we do not feel can have fatal consequences if we are overexposed to destroy the living cells and genetic material. We must take the radiation challenges seriously, and we must protect ourselves as best we can, but at the same time recognise that radiation can be an important tool within, among other things, the European Union. the medical, research and industrial fields. It is vital that we have up-to-date legislation that protects the individual from the serious damage that too much or inappropriate radiation can cause, whether you are a patient or you are employed in a company working with radiation. It is not, of course, because we do not have legislation in this area, but there has been quite a lot of development in this area since the legislation in force came into force in 1930 and 1953. So I actually think we can rightly call it out-of-date. We know more today than they did in 1930. After all, both science and technology have moved on. Now we are modernising and implementing parts of the European Radiation Protection Directive. I have taken note of the positive consultation response from the Danish Dental Association, which among other things. points out the importance of continuing the use of X-rays in diagnosis. We share this point of departure in the Left, as long as X-rays are judged to be the best solution for the patient rather than other models of solutions, a starting point that can of course change over time, because technological developments are constantly moving forward and offer new treatment and diagnostic options that the patient must naturally enjoy. In Denmark, we have committed ourselves to implementing the three principles of radiation protection in Danish legislation by 6 February 2018, which means that radiation must be justified and optimised. Doses for persons must be limited by fixed limits and doses must not be exceeded. New requirements require new procedures, and this challenges the Danish Health Authority in relation to the applicable fee structure, which far from covering the actual costs. There is a need for a better balance between supervision carried out and actual expenditure and real collection. We in the Left are aware that there are many consultation answers that address that issue. From now on, the complexity and risk of the source will determine the amount to be paid in fees. Powerful radiation will be more expensive on that basis than radiation sources with lower intensity. Although it is always a pity from the outset when something becomes more expensive, it makes good sense from our chair that the fees follow the costs of the new workload for the Danish Health Service resulting from the new EU directive. At the same time, it is important to point out that regions and municipalities and relevant actors affected by the new fee structure, as far as I understand, will be consulted when implementing the fee structure at the notice level. We in the Left can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205143025	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205143033	Thank you. My previous colleagues have given an excellent account of what kind of legislative proposal we are dealing with. After all, the reason is that in the next few days we will have to implement the radiation directive into Danish legislation, and this has given rise to the fact that the legislation we already have in this area has been thoroughly written and modernised. In some areas, there are also some small improvements, and that is why we can support the legislative proposal that lies in the Enhedslisten. I have one question for the Minister. The Social Democrat rapporteur also mentioned that the draft law here means a small extra cost for the state. As we have to expect more charges to be charged to the regions, we have to assume that this means applying this DUT principle, that is to say that the state has to somehow offset that cost. That is why I have a question concerning where that money comes from. I think it was also on the desk of the former Finance Minister, which one could see when one came in to him: where should the money come from? That is my question to the Minister and if it can be answered orally here today, it will be fine. Otherwise, we will follow up in writing on that question.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205143150	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205143154	Thank you. The aim of this bill is, on the one hand, to ensure that radiation protection in Denmark meets internationally recognised and agreed requirements, and, on the other hand, to bring existing rules and powers into one law. Oil Gas Denmark has stated in their consultation response that Denmark should as far as possible avoid special regulation and comply with common standards if possible, and acknowledges that Danish legislation in this area is now being tried in parallel with other countries' regulation and the EU directive. The bill thus makes good sense in several respects, and the Liberal Alliance supports the bill. During the process I have been very attentive to fee structures and administrative burdens, and I can see that several private actors and also Danske Regions have commented on this in their consultation response. According to the Ministry of Health and the Elderly, the revised fee structure will result in an upward adjustment of the fee rates to correspond to the current costs of the Danish Health Authority's radiation protection work assigned to the tasks arising from the EU Directive. This implies a total increase in fees of 6.4 million. kr. Annually from 2018 onwards. The fee change is, according to the Ministry, a necessary condition for Denmark to comply with the directive's radiation protection requirements, and the Ministry further states that the relevant actors, which will be affected by the new fee rates, will be consulted in connection with the implementation of the fee structure by the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of the Elderly at the level of the Order, and a consultation of regions and municipalities will be carried out in relation to the economic consequences of the bill. In addition, the special comments made by the draft law to Section 24 have been adjusted with a more detailed description of the expected financial consequences of the proposed fee structure for public and private payers respectively. The fee change is therefore necessary according to the Ministry and relevant parties will be consulted. This, too, has had an impact on the Liberal Alliance when we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205143422	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Mrs. Pernille Schnoor, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205143430	Thank you. My colleagues have explained very well what this bill is about, namely that we, as people, are constantly exposed to radiation and that some are exposed to it more than others, among other things. those who work in medical studies or in occupations where radioactive substances are used. The legislative proposal we are debating now has improvements in implementing this radiation protection directive, which is why we are also in favour of the legislative proposal. We also have some questions that we will be asking in committee, among others. on the revised fee structure here. However, I would just like to say that we are in favour of the draft law and are asking questions in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205143533	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. Then it is Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205143542	Thank you. This law is an implementation of the radiation protection directive, which is a so-called minimum directive. It must be implemented in Danish law by 6 February 2018, and that is what we are doing with this bill. The bill proposes repealing the radioactivity law and the X-ray law and replacing it with a single law. The draft law contains the general principles and framework for protection against ionizing radiation in accordance with the radiation protection directive, and the Radical Left can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205143623	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205143633	SF also supports the proposal on ionizing radiation and radiation protection. As has already been said, this is primarily a merger of two existing laws, which we are now bringing together in legislation in this area. I have noted that professionals support the draft law, although some wise questions are also being asked. It's all about security, but it's also about money. I have noted from an answer that the government gives priority to the safety of patients, citizens and employees, and this is important for the SF. On the other hand, the question of financing remains, as others have said, and I think that the Minister may come up with an answer to it a little closer, either in committee or in its response. However, as I said, the SF supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205143726	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205143739	Thank you. Today we are discussing a legislative proposal to ensure that we implement the EU's radiation protection directive. This gives us more up-to-date legislation in the area of radiation, where newer technologies and radiation equipment mean that we need to get the legislation up-to-date. That is why the Conservative People's Party can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205143804	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we've reached the Minister of Health. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205143817	Thank you and thank you for your comments on the bill. Of course, I am happy to respond to any questions that may be related to this, both in relation to the security prospects for citizens and for employees, including some of the more technical issues that exist. But basically I would like to welcome the fact that it sounds like there is a broad consensus in this Chamber that we need to strengthen and ensure radiation protection in Denmark for the future. There is no doubt, as some of the rapporteurs have said, that this is a very technical and in many ways also a difficult subject, and that in some of the areas too it is very much necessary to dig into it in depth. Nevertheless, the aim of the draft law is actually quite simple, namely to ensure that radiation protection in Denmark meets internationally recognised and agreed requirements and that we ensure the future of the area by merging all the existing rules into one law. And we can actually interpret it as an impressive foresight that two laws, which are respectively 87 and 64 years old, have been able to cope with the challenges we are facing up to now, despite the fact that radiation protection and the instruments have just changed over the past many decades. It is not, of course, an end in itself that a law is allowed to exist in a lifetime, but I think that it also emphasises that in this area we have had a framework which also needs modernisation, and that is what we are doing with the legislative proposal that lies where we repeal existing rules, but where we are at the same time, to a large extent, also continuing to apply the law. Therefore, the legislative proposal will immediately have no impact on the level of protection, only positive in terms of updating, and we will also ensure a forward-looking and long-term focus with the new framework that is now being established in relation to also ensuring that it is taken into account that the tools of the Health Authority's radiation unit can handle future sources, including the sources that we may not even know about today. In order to support this objective, the draft law is based on the three basic principles of radiation protection, which we know today, namely justification, optimisation and dose reduction, and, in this way, together they provide a strong framework for action, today, in Danish and in international contexts, and will, as such, continue to do so. And it is basically about ensuring that radiation is used so that the benefits are maximized and the damage is minimized, and the exercise is also, in this way, the one we are trying to continue with the future assurance of the legislation that we are dealing with today, and in which we are also seriously ensuring that the radiation we are using in our health services, whether it is in dentists, practitioners or hospitals, is handled in a proper way, both to the citizens and also to the employees affected by the radiation. Some have asked about the new fee structure and we believe that the draft law takes into account the use of radiation equipment in health care. It has developed significantly over recent years, and this requires greater vigilance, and it also requires a more intensified form of effort, both when we look at the permits and when we look at approvals and supervision. And in relation to the question of economics, we have suggested that it should be kept within the framework that the Ministry of Health as a whole has, but it is clear that it will also be based on a DUT debate, just as it applies to some of these issues when assessing what the real costs will be in this area. Because it is true that there is an extra cost in terms of strengthening the level of protection and the level of supervision at this level. Basically, we must remember that there is a need for increased supervision of radiation equipment in health care, and this is basically a positive development, because it is an expression of the fact that more equipment has been put in our hospitals and elsewhere in our health services. This is something that our patients benefit from, because it thus reflects the fact that a number of our patients have been given access to both more advanced equipment and equipment closer to where they live, and thus also an opportunity for both effective diagnostics and treatment, and it helps save lives every day in our healthcare system. It will be a firm and sustained task to maintain the objective of ensuring a high standard in this area, not least in view of the very rapid technological developments in this area, and therefore it is also important to make a comprehensive and up-to-date and up-to-date legislation so that we are equipped to handle the task in the future for the benefit and safety of both citizens and employees working in the vicinity of equipment that has an ionising radiation. So, as I said, I am of course happy to respond to the questions that are and hope that we can clarify them so that we can also ensure an update of the legislation within the time frame set out in relation to the requirements of the regulation.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205144331	Thank you, Minister. For the time being, there is at least one brief comment from Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205144337	Thank you very much. Thank you for the Minister's reply to this. There was just no answer to you in relation to the radioactive waste that we have seen in Esbjerg for a few years. In a reply to the undersigned, the Minister writes that if you come cycling and flatten out in front of Mærsk Oil, you will be exposed to a radiation dose that is not very high. And then I think: would the Minister be comfortable that her child flattened in front of some drums and went over and played with them if they had pierced through and there was leakage of radioactive waste?
ParlaMint-DK_20171205144421	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205144422	The waste at Esbjerg Harbour, which we are talking about in relation to Mærsk, is the so-called standard waste. It is naturally occurring radioactive waste, which is a residual product of the oil extraction that has been in the North Sea, and there are so many very low radioactive deposits. There we now have a set of rules and, of course, that set of rules must be complied with. In this particular case, Færsk has been given a number of instructions which I think they have been too slow to comply with. It is the responsibility of the companies that have created the standard waste and it is in this case Færsk in connection with their oil production to pay for proper handling of it. They have to. It is the Danish Health Authority's assessment that there has been no health risk, despite the fact that Færsk has been too slow to comply with the instructions given to them. It is clear that these rules must help to ensure that both the child who punctures on the side of the road and the employees at Esbjerg Harbour or other places where standard waste is handled are adequately protected.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205144523	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205144524	I did not hear the Minister answer whether she would be comfortable with her child having to play with some barrels pierced through. Maybe I can get an answer to that. And, of course, I would like to ask whether this law, when implemented, will ensure a quicker response to help the people in the areas where radioactive waste is present.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205144549	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205144550	You shouldn't play with standard waste. Therefore, there are requirements for it to be fenced-in areas, and in this case it is in containers. Inside the containers there must be intact drums, barrels, and that is what the injunction has been about, i.e. that Mærsk has not met the requirements, and therefore has been given a number of instructions. I think they have been too slow to comply with the injunctions. The Danish Health Authority's assessment in relation to this is that if it is properly stored, there is no health risk. And this is an assessment which is based precisely on the fact that it is very low-level radioactive waste. That is also what I have answered the questioner in question 205, where it is also pointed out that a flight from Tokyo to Copenhagen of about 12 hours will give a radiation dose of 0.06 millisivert, whereas at 2 metres away from the fence compared to the standard waste when you stay for 1 hour while you patch your bike, you will get a radiation dose of 0.00006 millisivert, so to get the proportions. And of course I am happy to answer this in more detail, in other words in relation to what the Danish Health Authority's assessment of the risk is in relation to norm waste.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205144703	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205144726	The debate is open. And I will start by giving the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205144742	Thank you. The motion for a resolution calls for a separate criminal code to be introduced in order to prevent the forced transmission of a foreigner. In other words, the proposal is about acts that hinder forced broadcasting, and here the proposers want the actions to be punishable by a separate criminal code and tougher than what is the case today. The government's position on these actions is quite clear. It is, of course, totally unacceptable if the police's broadcasting work is prevented in this way. Broadcasting is an important area, and it is of course essential that no obstacles be placed in the way of forced broadcasting of foreigners without legal residence in Denmark. The Government thus shares the views underlying the proposal. I would like to start by emphasising that the police are already doing a great deal today, through traditional police work, to avoid interruptions in forced service. We cannot quite prevent forced broadcasts from having to be interrupted, and the police have announced that during the period March-August this year 279 forced broadcasts have been carried out, while 88 forced broadcasts were cancelled. There may be several reasons why a forced broadcast must be interrupted. It can, for example, be done. is due to the fact that the asylum case of the alien is resumed by the authorities, and that may be immediately before the expulsion is to be carried out. This may also be due to the fact that the foreigner himself resists in such a way that the forced transmission is interrupted. However, this may also be due to the fact that a person other than the person to be sent for forced release succeeds in preventing a forced transmission. The police do not have precise records of how many times an air passenger, in other words a person other than the one to be deployed, has tried to prevent an aircraft with a rejected asylum seeker on board from taking off, with the aim of preventing the police from sending the person in question forcibly. However, the police estimate that in the last five years this has been done for approx. 5-10 cases that activists have bought tickets for the same aircraft as the unaccompanied foreigner, and that they could then have prevented a forced broadcast. So we're dealing with very few cases. I would, of course, like to see a voluntary return, but we must recognise that some foreigners refuse to cooperate in their return to their country of origin, and here we have to proceed to compulsory broadcasts. Of course, it is not desirable for third parties to prevent the police from doing their work in the field of broadcasting, and I fully agree with the proposers that those who improperly prevent the police from doing the police's work should, of course, be punished. As you know, this follows from section 119 of the Criminal Code. 3. that obstructing the performance of their duties or duties by the police is punishable. This provision also includes police work on the broadcasting area. And I've been looking with the Attorney General to see if there's a criminal breach. It is the opinion of the Ministry of Justice that the provision could be applied if a person prevents the police from carrying out a forced transmission. This will apply to the air passenger who is preventing an aircraft with an alien to be deployed on board from taking off. Also included is the person who e.g. distributes leaflets calling on passengers on an aircraft to prevent the police from forcefully sending the foreigner on board the aircraft, and this could be punished as complicity. In general, it is the case that anyone who, by encouraging, advice or deed, helps to prevent the police from carrying out a forced transmission of a rejected asylum seeker may be punished in accordance with Article 119 of the Penal Code. 3. Of course, it must always be possible to prove that the persons concerned acted deliberately to prevent the police from forcefully sending the foreigner concerned, but basically the government believes that the actions that the Danish People's Party wants to be able to punish can already be punished. The government has considered whether a separate penalty could still be introduced in order to tighten up the penalties. This is also one of the things that the Danish People's Party is proposing in this proposal, and the Danish People's Party itself points to a minimum sentence of 5 years. And there I would say that it is a very high punishment. We in Denmark are also very reluctant to impose minimum penalties, and I cannot therefore accept the Danish People's Party on this very point. However, the proposals of the Danish People's Party have given rise to a closer look at the extent and severity of such cases today, and this could be the first place to start a discussion on the need for punishment in this area. We have to note that no cases have been brought against persons who have obstructed a forced broadcast, and this is probably because the main focus of the police is on controlling the foreigner to be deployed rather than taking action against passengers who are trying to prevent the deployment. That's fair enough. It is also an incredibly difficult situation with an aircraft filled with other passengers having to take off while things can be brought to a head. But it is not fair that forced broadcasts can be interrupted without any consequences, and here we must of course do everything we can to ensure that, as far as possible, criminal proceedings are actually carried out in these cases. It will also send a clear signal to those who are tempted to try to interrupt police work in this area. I have therefore discussed the matter with the Minister for Justice and we have agreed that he will ask the police and the prosecution to pay particular attention to cases where the police's deployment work is punishable. In this way, we will be able to ensure in future that people who obstruct the police's deployment work will actually be punished as well. I have also considered, on the basis of the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party, whether there is anything else we can do. A person who interferes with the work of the police will not only prevent the forced deployment, but will also often be able to delay the departure of the aircraft, and it would be quite expensive for a plane to leave later than is planned. I have therefore considered, together with the Minister for Justice, whether a claim for damages can be made against those who are obstructing forced transmission. A large amount of compensation will probably also act as a deterrent to many, and the Ministry of Justice has stated that if the airline suffers a financial loss because the flight is prevented or delayed, the airline will be able to claim compensation from the passenger who has caused the obstacle or delay. Such a claim may, where appropriate, be dealt with together with the criminal proceedings against him or her. In addition, of course, it is also a matter of actually having the broadcasts carried out, even if there are some who are trying to prevent the police from doing their job, and I have therefore asked my officials to consider whether we can do something about the organisation of forced broadcasts and do so in a way that prevents them from being disturbed to a greater extent. Therefore, a working group will now be set up in my ministry to look into this issue. I know that the police are making a lot of effort, but there is probably also reason to shake the bag once again, and that can be done, for example. is considered whether there is a need for even closer contact with e.g. airports and airlines. So, to sum up briefly, the government fully shares the wish of the authors of the motion for a resolution that those who obstruct forced broadcasting should be punished, but that is already very much possible, and the government cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution to introduce a special penal clause, even with the aim of increasing the penalty. But we want to do something else: we want to ensure that the police and prosecutors prosecute as much as possible those who unduly obstruct forced service. It will just send out a clear signal to get convictions in this area and we will also consider whether something can be done so that we organise the forced service so that we can get the foreigners who do not leave the country as far as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205145720	Thank you very much, Minister. There are questions from Mr. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205145724	Thank you. It is, of course, a pity that the government and the Minister will not support the proposal, but I would like to acknowledge that this will be followed up, I understand, and I think it was some excellent initiatives that the Minister listed here. I wondered whether we could not agree that in the near future the Minister would not have to be within the next week; of course there would have to be some time for the police to follow up on what the Minister and the Minister for Justice have asked the prosecution and the police to return, so that we can see whether something has actually happened and whether cases have been brought against some of the people who are sometimes trying to prevent the forced dispatch of rejected asylum seekers. If we could agree to that, that would be quite good.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205145807	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205145808	I think that sounds like an exceptionally reasonable wish of Mr. Martin Henriksen and Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205145814	Then we can thank the Minister. Then we move on to the rapporteur's line, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205145827	Thank you. The motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party, B 21, on the criminalisation of acts which prevent forced broadcasts of foreigners, touches on one at once a question of principle and emotional importance. We in Denmark, with the broad support of both the population and the Folketing, are pursuing a strict immigration policy. If integration is to succeed, it is crucial that Denmark does not accept more strangers than we can handle. This means that asylum seekers must meet a number of requirements in order to obtain asylum. It is important that asylum and protection be granted only in the case of a refugee. This also means that when an application for asylum is rejected by the Refugee Board, the rejected applicant must return to his country of origin, since after the end of the proceedings the person concerned has no legal residence in Denmark. It is important for legal certainty to come back after the end of treatment if you are no longer legally resident. It is also important that the person comes back because otherwise he will absorb and seize resources to be spent on people with a right to protection. Because we in Denmark attach importance to repatriating people who have had their asylum applications rejected, it is necessary from time to time to return people who do not want to leave Denmark. Forced repatriations are unhappy for all involved, but nevertheless necessary. That is why they must, of course, be implemented like any other authority decision based on a democratic basis. A forced repatriation is a democratic decision and also a democratic decision with which one is allowed to disagree. Freedom of expression ensures that you are allowed to protest about decisions and matters against which you are opposed. This also applies to forced repatriations. That right must be guarded in a democracy, whether we agree or disagree with the positions behind the protest against any forced repatriation. But what is crucial is that the Social Democratic Party is vigilant that forced repatriation can and must be carried out if a rejected asylum seeker will not voluntarily leave Denmark. And we bear in mind that the penal code is already punishing the person or persons who are trying to prevent forced repatriation while at the same time violating the criminal code, such as the order order. Social democracy would like to enter into a dialogue with the government, also on the actions outlined if the government or the police believe that there is a need to tighten up the area and thus criminalise acts that intend to prevent forced repatriation by acts that are currently legal. However, this requires the authorities to consider that there is a need for new tools in this area. The Social Democrats also take note of the fact that the motion for a resolution states that infringements of the proposed rules must result in a minimum of five years' imprisonment. Such a provision would mean a minimum of 5 years in prison for persons who, for example, distribute leaflets with the message to prevent an aircraft from taking off. It does not seem appropriate or proportionate at first. With those comments, I can say that the Social Democrats cannot support the proposal, although we share many of the views behind the request for the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205150130	Here, too, there is one question from Mr. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205150135	Thank you. I hear the rapporteur say that if the government believes that action should be taken and if the police believe that action should be taken, then it may be that the Social Democrats also believe that action should be taken. Then I would like to ask whether the Social Democratic Party has an independent position on this issue. Does the Social Democratic Party believe that there is a need to do more, or will one wait for what the government is doing or what the police are doing at some point? Does the Social Democratic Party believe that there is a need to do more in this area? Then you can choose one model or the other model. When, for example, it doesn't work. Now it appears today that no one has been punished for trying to prevent a forced broadcast, does the Social Democrats, as an independent party, believe that some initiatives should be taken by the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20171205150221	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205150221-2	The Social Democratic Party believes that it is absolutely essential that decisions by the authorities can be implemented, including decisions by the authorities to repatriate when necessary, and that is why we are wary that those decisions by the authorities can be implemented. We are not aware that there is a desire on the part of the authorities to tighten up here, that the police are asking for it, and so we would like to wait for the police to make a statement, possibly through discussions with the government, before we consider any initiatives that might be taken. The crucial thing is that forced repatriations can be carried out when they are necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205150253	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205150255	But if we were always to wait for what the police might have of opinions for something, it might well be that not so much happened in here at Christiansborg. After all, there are a number of people who think that not enough is happening in advance, so it would be nice if the Social Democrats could make an independent attitude on this issue. Because we know that there have been a number of cases in which people have tried to prevent a forced broadcast and we know that no one has been punished for it. So, on the basis of these figures, does the Social Democratic Party believe that there is a political need to do more, or will one just wait for the police to perhaps not make a statement at some point?
ParlaMint-DK_20171205150330	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205150331	I did not say that you should always wait for the police, but in this case I believe that there is good reason to be in close dialogue with the authorities. I also note that the Minister says that if there are illegal obstacles to forced broadcasting, there will be a greater focus on punishing it. I also look forward to the initiatives that will come from the government in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205150353	Then we can thank the rapporteur. And then we've reached Mr. Marcus Knuth, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205150402	Thank you, sir. President. And I would also like to thank the Danish People's Party for highlighting with this resolution a very important debate. I would like to start by saying that we in the Left share the view of the Danish People's Party that it must of course have consequences if we prevent the forced broadcasting of foreigners, and we agree that the broadcast should be as effective as possible, since it is a question of foreigners, where it has been decided that they do not have the right to be here in Denmark. But having said that, we believe that the core of the problem lies elsewhere than the direction proposed by the motion for a resolution here. Because, as we can see in the background to this motion for a resolution, according to the Ministry of Justice, there are already a number of penal provisions depending on the circumstances that can already be used in cases of forced extradition of foreigners, where people try to prevent it. For example, it says:: Under section 119 of the Penal Code. 3, it may also be punishable if persons, other than through violence or threats of violence, place obstacles in the way of the performance of their duties or duties by the police. And it is then punished by fine or prison for up to 11⁄2 years. That is to say, there are already provisions that allow very, very harsh cuts to be made on people who prevent the authorities from doing their job. In addition, the Ministry also gives a number of other examples of violence, threats or mockery of officers, and the Ministry then concludes by stating that it is a serious matter to prevent a public authority from implementing a decision. Thus, as stated above, there are also a number of penalties which, depending on the specific circumstances, could be applied in relation to persons seeking to obstruct a broadcast. I therefore believe that the answer given by the Ministry of Justice shows that the problem in this area is more likely to be about the enforcement of the existing law. That is also what the Minister said in his speech. I am sure that the police are making a great deal of effort, including in this area, but it may be that there is a need for extra consideration in order to see what else can be done by the police in order to avoid disruption of forced service. I can understand that and I am also pleased that for the same reason the Minister would like to set up a working group to look at exactly the question: what can we do to enforce the existing law that is not already being applied? In addition, I know that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration and the Ministry of Justice have been and are in close contact regarding possible solutions. So I am pleased about that, and I would also like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for clarifying this problem, because that is sometimes what needs to be done. Having said that, the Left cannot support the specific motion for a resolution because, as I said, it is already very much possible to punish people who are preventing the authorities from carrying out their work, such as forced broadcasting.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205150706	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments, so we go further. Then it is Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205150721	This motion for a resolution calls for a separate criminalisation of acts which prevent the forced transmission of persons who are not legally resident here in Denmark. The Enhedslisten cannot support the proposal. In the comments on the motion for a resolution, the authors of the motion refer to a reply from the Ministry of Justice of August this year. That answer shows that, of course, we can already be punished for putting the police in the way. If, for example, you're gonna have to... shouting to prevent a forced broadcast, you can get a fine according to the order notice. If you shout insults or insults against the police, you can be punished for according to section 121 of the penal code, where the penalty goes up to 1 year in prison. If you go so far as to threaten or commit violence against the police, we are in a different frame of punishment. Then there may be a sentence under Article 119 of the Penal Code, where the sentence may go as far as 8 years in prison. In other words, as the answer from the Ministry of Justice shows, there is already an opportunity today in the law to punish people who are obstructing the police. Of course, the police must be able to do their job without hindrance, and at the same time, of course, it must be the case in a democratic society with freedom of expression that we must be able to stand peacefully with a banner in front of us, for example. a terminal building at an airport or handing out flyers and pointing out that one disagrees with Danish asylum policy or in a concrete decision on a forced transmission. Fortunately, as I said, we live in a democracy of freedom of expression. We must not call for unlawful acts. This is one of the points which the authors of the motion for a resolution attach to, but that is already the case today. This has been taken into account in the penal code. So if you stand outside an airport building and encourage or advise others to hinder the police, you can also be punished. It's section 23 of the Penal Code. As I said, the legislation is clear. It is already illegal to put the police in the way. We are voting against this proposal, which we think is completely superfluous.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205150933	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in line is Mrs Christina Egelund, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205150943	Thank you, President. With this proposal, the Danish People's Party wishes to criminalise acts independently which prevent forced broadcasting by a foreigner. The proposal's comments mention that a number of the actions which are intended to be criminalised independently are already criminals. It can, for example, be done. be disturbing public order, violence, threats, insults and insults. Conversely, it is said that it is not criminal to prevent an aircraft from taking off or encouraging others to do so. In the Liberal Alliance, of course, we believe that it must have a consequence if the police are to be prevented from doing their job, but the penalties laid down in the proposal here are in the slightly wild end. A minimum sentence of 5 years and up to 10 years is mentioned in more organized cases. This means, for example, that we have to punish distributing a brochure harder than we do with the vast majority of serious crimes of violence. A rape is typically punished considerably milder than what is proposed here. It is an important balance in a legal society that there is a reasonable proportionality between crime and punishment. It does not make sense in our optics to have to put people in prison for years, for example. to distribute brochures. Furthermore, there is something quite wrong with the fact that the proposal will penalise the same act much more severely if it is carried out in the context of forced broadcasting than if it is carried out in other situations. If you yell at a police officer, it will usually result in a penalty penalty. The same word of reviling will, with the implementation of this proposal, result in 5 years of imprisonment if the officer is engaged in a forced broadcast. We do not think that this is entirely consistent, and it illustrates the problem of putting a whole lot of different actions in the same box and punishing them equally. The Liberal Alliance cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205151144	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205151151	Thank you. Today we are debating a motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party which seeks to criminalise acts which prevent the forced repatriation of foreigners. With this proposal, the Danish People's Party wants to introduce a separate criminal code which makes it a criminal offence to prevent the forced transmission of a foreigner. This is justified by the fact that the current criminal law is not sufficient. In addition to this, a minimum sentence of 5 years of unconditional imprisonment and up to 10 years is laid down. I can start by saying that the alternative cannot support the proposal. We cannot do so because we believe that such a provision would be too far-reaching in relation to fundamental democratic rights and because we consider it unnecessary. The reason why we find it unnecessary, as several other rapporteurs in this Chamber have already said, is that there are already a large number of provisions in both the criminal code and the order order which make it a criminal offence to prevent the work of the authorities or to call for violence or crime. This applies to Article 3 of the Order and to Articles 119, 121, 136, 266 and 266a of the Penal Code. That, among other things. Paragraph 119 (a) states: 3 is that if some people obstruct the performance of their duties or duties, they are fined or imprisoned for a period of up to 1 year and 6 months. Or § 121: The person who, with insults, insults or other insults, assaults some of those mentioned in § 119, i.e. the police, in the performance of their duties or in the performance of their duties or on account of the same, they shall be fined or imprisoned until one year. So there are a whole series of regulations that already criminalise this. And it is clear that if you, as a citizen, use your freedom of expression or the freedom of assembly to protest and demonstrate, this must, of course, be done within the framework of the law. At the same time, I think it is important to stress here from the platform that protesting, demonstrating, we can also call the practice of activism, is a fundamental democratic right, and it is not something that we should criminalise in itself, because it would be a restriction on the rights of the individual. This applies both to our constitution and to human rights. The proposal from the Danish People's Party, for example, says, and now I quote, that it must be a criminal offence to distribute brochures calling on fellow passengers to prevent the departure of the aircraft or otherwise to try to prevent a specific forced transmission of a foreigner through calls or actions. And, of course, if such a brochure or call does not call for violence or violation of the criminal code, it is not illegal in itself, but an exercise of the individual's right to express itself. That is why I find it very difficult to see in what cases the proposed criminal code should and can be used, which is not already a criminal offence today. In any case, I do not think we should go further in this direction in order to prevent people from expressing themselves and expressing themselves democratically and gathering together. That is why the alternative votes against the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205151452	It just gave rise to one comment from Mr. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205151457	Thank you. I would just like to ask Mrs Josephine Fock whether the alternative holds the view that it is positive if there are people who prevent or try to prevent or succeed in preventing the forced transmission of rejected asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205151512	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205151513	I do not think that the pursuit of activism in relation to the repatriation of, for example, people. asylum seekers must be punished differently from other infringements of the law. I mean, if doing something is illegal in advance, then of course it has to be punished. But I do not think there is a difference between these cases and other cases of illegal activism, so to speak. I think we should stick to the fact that we have a fundamental right in this country both to express ourselves and to gather together and so on. on a given subject that we do not agree with.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205151545	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205151547	However, with all due respect, I do not think it was an answer to my question, and it may well be that the answer was not really an answer, but it may be that we find out in the second place because I would like to know whether it is the alternative's view that it is okay and that it is positive if people try to prevent or succeed in preventing a forced transmission of, for example, a rejected asylum seeker. Is it good that there are people who engage in a job that is about preventing forced broadcasting?
ParlaMint-DK_20171205151613	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205151615	Well, I hardly know how to answer more clearly. Well, I always think it is positive that there are people who engage in our society and as long as they do so within the framework of the law, I think it is right, very good, that people gather, express themselves and so on, but they must always do so within the limits of the law. As I also mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, there are a number of paragraphs which already ensure that, of course, the police should not be prevented from doing their job.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205151641	With that, we would like to thank the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205151650	It is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen who will be the rapporteur on the matter in committee and, in her absence, I shall make clear the position of the Radical Left here at first reading. With the proposal, the Danish People's Party wishes to introduce a special criminal clause, and now I quote from the motion for a resolution, which makes it a criminal offence to prevent the compulsory transmission of a foreigner. It is already the case today that we must not prevent the work of the police. You can't get in the way of the police or be violent with the police in any way, whether it's about a forced broadcast or something else. It's already illegal. There is no further indication of what the Danish People's Party means by the word 'preventing'. Is it now a special paragraph that should apply to people who demonstrate at airports or people who express opposition to existing legislation? Are these people collecting for legal advice? Is it people who help people complain about a decision? Is it people who help a deportee at all? The motion for a resolution does not make that clear at all. But, you know, if it's about preventing the police from doing their job, it's already forbidden. It is the case that Denmark is a rule of law and therefore it is quite right to help other people to test their rights. It is even a hallmark of the rule of law that everyone has rights, regardless of who it is. In the Radical Left, we see no value in this motion for a resolution and think it is mostly symbolic. It is already criminal to prevent the police from doing their work and therefore we cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205151901	Thank you, sir. Andreas Steenberg. Then it's mr. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205151917	As has also been said from the financial negotiations, the Danish People's Party is currently engaged in a tour of forces in the field of foreigners, where much of it is about showing that you are tighter and that you want to bother people as much as possible. Then there are proposals such as this, which, as others have pointed out, have no real significance, because the issues dealt with in the proposal are already covered by the criminal code. That is why it is not very practical, except that it is a Danish People's Party classic proposal that we do not want to support. So we say no to this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205152013	Thank you, sir. Holger K. Nielsen. Then it's mr. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205152020	We fully agree with the Danish People's Party on the points of view underlying the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party. Our position is also quite clear: people who do not have the right to stay in Denmark must be repatriated. That is why we must ensure that the police have the best possible framework for carrying out repatriations. There are many things that can stand in the way of repatriations. It may be a lack of cooperation with the person to be repatriated or a lack of cooperation with the country to accept him or her. The government must and will continue to work to obtain repatriation agreements with as many countries as possible. A few sending ambassadors have been appointed who are in the process of making agreements with several countries to get them to accept their own citizens who are not allowed to be here. Unfortunately, we have also seen examples of a third party interfering in the broadcast. This summer, for example, you could read an interview in Politiken with an activist who believes that it is okay to try to slow down a repatriation and thus slow down the work of the police. In a specific case, the passengers of the aircraft in question were called upon to oppose the departure by refusing to wear seat belts and the like. Eventually, the return had to be interrupted. We cannot accept that. The motion for a resolution of the Danish People's Party proposes to introduce a separate criminal law clause aimed at persons specifically preventing a forced transmission. Preventing a forced broadcast is in itself an obstacle to the work of the police. It is already illegal, as a result of section 119 of the Criminal Code. If the crime is already covered by the criminal code, it may mean that the provision is not being used sufficiently in these cases. There must therefore be a call to the government to bring that issue to the attention of the police and the prosecution, so that these activists will be prosecuted in the future. As the crime is already covered by the regulation on preventing police work, we do not believe that it should be further legislated on, but the government should ensure that the provision is also applied in practice.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205152248	Thank you, sir. Naser Khader. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205152256	Thank you. There have been a number of cases, and it is also sometimes described in the press, where there are activists who have tried to prevent the police from sending out, for example, rejected asylum seekers. The Minister referred to some of the cases that have taken place and also said that no charges have been brought against any of the persons who have tried to prevent expulsion. And that is one of the reasons why we have tabled this resolution, which aims to ensure that Denmark can effectively send foreigners expelled from Denmark or refused asylum. A reply from the Minister for Justice indicates that there is no separate criminal provision making it a criminal offence to prevent the forced transmission of a foreigner. In the view of the Danish People's Party, the possibilities in the criminal law in force for punishing persons who prevent the forced transmission of a foreigner are insufficient. We therefore believe that a clear legal basis should be introduced for punishing persons who, through actions or calls, are specifically trying to prevent the police from carrying out a forced broadcast by a foreigner. Furthermore, the amount of the penalty for breaching such a new provision should have a significant deterrent effect. With this motion for a resolution, the government is therefore required, before the end of this parliamentary year, to table a legislative proposal which introduces a separate penal provision into the law. It should be clear in Danish law that it is a criminal offence for air passengers to try to prevent an aircraft with a rejected asylum seeker on board from taking off, and it should also be a criminal offence to distribute brochures calling on fellow passengers to prevent the departure of the aircraft, or in any other way to try to prevent a specific forced transmission of a foreigner through calls or actions. That is what the proposal is about. But there are, I must understand, not other parties who want to support the proposals of the Danish People's Party, and of course I am sorry about that. However, I have to understand from the Minister that the government will tighten up the current practice so that more will be punished. The Ministry of Justice has asked the police to give priority to action against those who prevent forced broadcasts, and the Minister for Justice has done so in the wake of the Danish People's Party's motion for a resolution. So it has come out of today's debate in any case that the government has asked the police and the prosecution to ensure that the work of prosecuting those who prevent forced transmission is put on the agenda and that it is given priority by the authorities. Of course, we in the Danish People's Party will return to this, because it is very problematic that the authorities should be prevented from doing their job. When a majority in this Parliament has decided that it must have a consequence when you are refused asylum and that you must be sent out by force when possible, then it does not hold that there are individuals and groups in Danish society who are trying to prevent the police from doing their job. I would like to sign for the Minister of Integration to say that she will return to the Danish Parliament with a status on how this work is going, and as I said, we will return to that from the Danish People's Party. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205152555	Thank you, sir. Martin Henriksen, there are no brief remarks. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the resolution be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205152616	The debate is open, and that is Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205152659	Thank you for the floor, President. This bill is part of the implementation of the political agreement of 12 November this year between the Government, the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left on business and entrepreneurial initiatives. The Social Democratic Party believes that the draft law contains a number of sensible measures. We share, for example. the ambition to launch initiatives relating to cross-border trade and tax relief. In general, it must be an objective to continuously adjust the rates of taxation so that they reduce both border trade but also ensure a well thought-out tax burden which takes into account factors such as health and the environment. The draft law, which everyone has been able to read, contains five concrete elements: the cancellation of planned indexation of taxes, the reduction of the raw materials tax, popularly called the nut tax, in 2018 and its subsequent abolition by 2020, the abolition of the tax on tea, the abolition of additional duties on alcohol soft drinks, the extension of the researcher tax scheme from 5 years to 7 years. Social democracy supports the extension of the research tax scheme. We see this as a good contribution to the Danish business community and Danish research institutions being able to attract and maintain highly qualified key employees for a number of years on tax terms that take into account that the employees concerned are in Denmark on a temporary basis. In the Social Democratic Party, we also believe that it is sensible to abolish taxes on tea and nuts. These are old import duties which now affect border trade, administrative burdens in services and the competitive situation of producing industries and which we have politically agreed could be reduced or abolished with good sense. Conversely, we in the Social Democratic Party are more sceptical about tax reductions on candy and alcoholic drinks. It is always a balancing factor between considerations of health and the need to ensure Danish trade and thus Danish jobs. That is why we are also calling for the area to be monitored very closely. The essential thing is total consumption. If trade moves to Denmark without increasing the total consumption of harmful products, then we have not harmed health, but just moved the turnover to Denmark. However, if, instead, young people's alcohol onset is brought forward or young people's consumption of alcohol generally increases as a result of tax reductions, then that is different. We do not feel sure that the balance has been maintained with the proposed proposal here in the draft law, and this is an area that we, as Parliament and the Committee on Taxation, must keep an eye on. Obviously, the Committee on Health should also be aware of developments. To date, part of the training of alcohol dealers has also been financed from the tax. The press coverage of the case suggests that another funding has been found, but it is also a problem that we will have to keep an eye on when dealing with this bill. We must move cross-border trade home to Denmark with the bill and not weaken alcohol treatment. Part of the financing of tax reductions is excellent, for example. the change in interest rates on overpaid taxes and savings on public business promotion. In the social democracy, however, we are sceptical about the saving in active employment. It risks going beyond the unemployed who need training or will benefit from activation. We would have preferred to have dropped the very expensive and unfair relief from the inheritance tax for business owners and not implemented the investment scheme in entrepreneurship, which is really a relief to a small group of wealthy Danes. In this way, it could be possible to afford the sensible tax reductions that are in the proposal here and, moreover, the tax relief changes that will improve the competitiveness of some industries, thus reducing border trade and providing more turnover in Danish shops. With those comments, the Social Democratic Party will state that we will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205153039	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no brief comments. We move on to Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205153050	Thank you. As I said, this bill is part of the business agreement concluded between the government, the Radical Left and the Danish People's Party. It is an agreement that we in my party are very happy to be part of a deal that has several focus areas. We want to see, among other things. to provide easy access to capital for entrepreneurs. There are some measures in the field of tourism. There is a reduction in the electric heating charge. We are doing something to reduce cross-border trade and there is a reorganisation of some taxes. And in particular the last two, that is to say the cross-border trade and the reorganisation of taxes, is what is contained in this draft law. The first thing I want to mention is the reduction in the raw materials tax, which, as the previous rapporteur said, is probably more known as the nut tax. It will only be halved in 2018 and later removed in 2020. The reason for this is that it's a law all the way back from 1922, where there are eight different rates, which makes it quite difficult to administer, but it's also a little weird why we're trying to regulate behavior in this area. Because behavioral regulations and taxes are typically something we use in connection with something that may be unhealthy or polluting and which we would like less of, so there is a tax. However, as far as nuts are concerned, we actually have a diet advice that recommends people to eat nuts because it is actually quite healthy. So it does not make much sense for us to have a nut tax, which is why it is quite positive that we should now have it reduced by half and later removed. Another element of the bill is the cancellation of some indexations on e.g.: chocolate, wine, coffee, etc., which will help reduce border trade, but also illegal trade. These are, of course, some charges, which we must say, at least according to the reorganisation report and the border trade report, are quite high in relation to our neighbouring countries, and that is why we think it is positive that we are now getting something done about it. Then there is the abolition of the additional levy on alcohol drinks. We are now removing it because there has simply been massive cross-border trade and illegal trade. It is the case that about half of the consumption of alcohol soda that the Danes have is taken south of the border, which is extreme. It is therefore a turnover which could just as well have been placed in Danish stores for the benefit of Danish employment. And if you look at the figures in the bill, you can also see that there is actually a pretty wild effect of it, because immediately it costs about 35 million. kr. to abolish it, but according to behavior it is only 10 million. kr., because it simply moves so much trade back to Danish stores. We do not think it makes much sense that you have trucks that drive to the border with goods, so that the Danes then go south with their trailers to fill it up and drive the other way again. It's more logical to spend the money in local stores. I think it is quite real, as the previous rapporteur says, that this is, of course, a balancing exercise and that there may be a concern about the health effects. But I would just like to say that I am probably not so worried, at least not from the answers we have received from the Ministry, which says that the total consumption of alcohol in Denmark will increase by 0.1%. One example is that if someone drinks 1,000 items a year, they will drink 1,001 items a year. I do not think there are many people who drink so much, and if you drink so much, then perhaps that is not what makes you tip over to the other side and become an alcoholic, that is to say that you now get 1 item more a year than the 1,000 you already drink. So I'm not so worried about it. And if you have some young people who have a wrong consumption of alcohol... maybe they're watching handball tonight... I also think that a better tool would be for parents to explain to them that drinking 1 or 2 items may be fine, but that they shouldn't be drinking, for example. 10 items. So I am not so worried about that, but I would actually just like to urge that we try to regulate behaviour in other ways, which may be marketing, through campaigns, but we can also, as parents, take steps to ensure that young people have a different consumption of alcohol. Then there is the abolition of the tax on tea, which is also part of the reorganisation report. And as far as I know, we are the only country in the European Union that has a tax on tea at all. I don't know about you, but I don't have the impression that tea is unhealthy to drink, and that's why we think it's a little strange that we have a tax on it. It is a tax that pays 8 million. kr. Every year, but there are 200 companies that have to manage it, so I think it makes sense that we should also get rid of it. Then there is one thing in the bill that we are less enthusiastic about, and that is the extension of the research tax scheme. I just have to say that this is part of the compromise that you have to make when you make some agreements. However, it is a question of two more years in the future on the scheme, but in return it will have to pay 1%. more in tax while you are, which makes the total change become revenue neutral. It has made it possible for us to live with it, that is, as part of a compromise, but it is naturally not just a thing that has grown in the garden of the Danish People's Party. But, overall, we think it is a very good legislative proposal that mainly does something about border trade, but also sucks some of the taxes that we do not think make much sense. So the Danish People's Party can of course support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205153549	Thank you. It has given rise to a single question from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205153555	Thank you. Now, in his speech, the rapporteur himself emphasized alcoholic drinks, and when at least two of the present three government parties introduced the tax, it was originally with exactly the argument that it was for the sake of young people and that it was for the sake of public health, because it was a problem. So either you were wrong then, or you're wrong today. What is the rapporteur's position? After all, the rapporteur said that it did not matter in relation to the changes that are coming now, but something was originally misinformed to the Danish Parliament when it was introduced.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205153641	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205153642	I do not think it necessarily has to be a wrong basis on which to decide, and it was back in 2009 or something like that, as I recall, but the reality has changed. It has just turned out that there is a massive border trade and that over half of the Danes' consumption of these products is picked up south of the border. So behavior has simply been different than was expected at the time. When you then take stock of reality, backed by a border trade report and a reorganisation report that came here recently, and at the same time you can see that total alcohol consumption will increase by 0.1 per cent, then you just have to conclude that it is not a good tool to regulate behaviour. This doesn't mean that you necessarily think that the young people should just go out and drink a lot more of this alcohol soda and run around the streets rigidly every day. Instead of trying to see whether there are other ways of regulating, which might have a better effect, I think that after a few years of the effect of this tax we have now found that it has not had the effect one would like to have, because it has just led to increased border trade, not a lower consumption.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205153741	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205153742	Of course, I can see if the success criterion is that consumption should only increase a little, that it does not look so bad. But I thought it was a widespread view in the Folketing that the consumption of alcohol by young people in particular was far too high and, in particular, compared with other European countries, consumption is more than too high. So the success criterion ought to be to have consumption reduced, and especially alcohol soft drinks for young people is also something that tastes just like soda, but it helps Danish young people to have an alarmingly high consumption of alcohol.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205153823	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205153824	It is fair that you want to do something about this, we would also like to do that in the Danish People's Party, but the challenge is if it is the tax that is the best way to regulate it. I don't think it is when I see it all instead of just being bought south of the border. In other words, when the increase in total alcohol consumption is virtually unchanged, i.e. at 0.1%, then the tax is just a bad tool. There are some other things you can look at. It could be the Marketing Act, where, for example, there are If you are under the age of 18, or if you are under the age of 18, parents may have had a talk with their children about how to have a regular consumption of alcohol and perhaps not to sit and drink ten in one evening for a handball match, I do not think you can achieve that either in the short time available, but there are some other parameters, and perhaps you should screw them up rather than think that it is the tax policy alone that should be the determining factor. When more than half of them are bought south of the border, it may not be the tax that determines whether they are bought.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205153914	With that we thank the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. We move on to the rapporteur of the Left, Mrs Louise Schack Elholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205153924	Thank you. We're really, really happy about this bill. For the Left, it has been important to do something about our very complex tax system, and it has to be said that excise duties are one of the areas in which the tax system is even very complicated. That is also why the government set up a reorganisation committee to look at how to deal with the bureaucracy of excise duties. One of the charges on which we have always seen ourselves very angry, because there has been so much bureaucracy about it, has been the levy on nuts. There are eight different rates for nuts and, as the previous rapporteurs have already mentioned, nuts are actually healthy to eat and a good alternative to many other things, so why do so many different taxes have to be applied to something that is not really unhealthy? Another thing that has also been very important for us to do is the tea tax. The revenue is incredibly small, compared to how many people have to administer it. There are two different tea taxes, and that is quite correct, as my colleague Mr Gundelach said. Dennis Flydtkjær said that we are the only country in Europe that has a tea tax. So it doesn't really make sense. These were two of the charges which the government had also proposed to abolish. With the agreement with DF, we have made it an even bigger border trade package and an even better border trade package, because this bill translates into the elements of the agreement we made in the business and entrepreneurial package that was concluded on 12 November 2017 by the government, the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left. Overall, the draft law implements a number of initiatives on border trade and tax relief, as well as the extension of the researcher tax regime. What can be said quite specifically is that, as has been mentioned several times, we cancel the indexation of the chocolate levy and the wine tax. Why are we doing this? Yes, it is because we can see that we do not believe that it has the very great effect on health. We believe that the majority is traded south of the border, and sweets are a very price sensitive product, and therefore we must reduce the bags every time we make an indexing of the tax, and that is rather bureaucratic. In fact, it means discarding all the bags you already have because people take after the price and not the quantity. So in this way it is something that makes it very difficult to compete with the products you can buy, which are similar, south of the border, and it puts pressure on you to maintain production in Denmark. So I actually believe that has a really positive effect. We will abolish the tea tax, as I have already mentioned, and then we will halve the levy on nuts in 2018, and then it will be abolished by 2020. We have already mentioned the abolition of the additional levy on alcoholic drinks, and then we think it is very positive that we are changing the research tax system so that we go from five to seven years, while at the same time increasing the gross tax rate from 26 to 27 per cent. We hope that this will help to ensure that some of the highly qualified employees that you get to Denmark can be maintained for a long time, because there is no doubt that we have a great demand for labour, because things are going well in Denmark, but we also need the labour force. So basically, we believe that this is a very good bill, which translates some of the very positive things that we have got through together with both the Danish People's Party and the Radicals, and which help to ensure that we have a more transparent tax system.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205154245	Thank you to the rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205154259	Thank you. This bill concerns the tax reductions in the business package and the reorganisation of the researcher tax regime, as other rapporteurs have mentioned. The charges serve several purposes. Taxes may be good because we want specific behaviour that taxes can influence, for example. in relation to environmental impacts, which we want less, unhealthy food or the like. It may also be because we want to raise money for other good things, for example. welfare. Here taxes can be a good idea. For example: green taxes can be used to finance conversion to renewable energy. In some cases, it has to be said that we are dealing with taxes which do not meet either the first or the second requirement. There are clearly examples of this. If we take, for example... In fact, it makes sense to remove the tax, which is removed by this bill, because it is not harmful to health. And that brings in the vicinity of 10 million. kr., so we're certainly not dealing with any gold mine here that can finance other good things. So here there should be no evil word from Enhedslisten also in relation to the administrative burdens that exist in relation to managing the tax. On the other hand, this draft law also contains reductions which are clearly contrary to the two principles I mentioned at the outset, which can justify the charges. For example, if we take the removal of the additional levy on alcoholic drinks, it is clearly not for the sake of money that we should do so. It gives very little money in the Treasury. But here there is a behavioral issue that the tax is trying to deal with. We want young people to turn down their consumption of alcohol, and we do not want there to be a tax reduction that promotes alcohol consumption in young people, and especially alcohol soda, which is such a kind of child-friendly alcohol, if you can call it that, what it is not that tastes like a fanta. And that is why it is particularly problematic because it obviously has young people as its target group. That is why it is also a really bad idea to remove the additional levy on alcoholic drinks. It should not be made cheaper, because we do not want young people to be better advised to get drunk. Alcohol soda is easier to get down on the untrained palate compared to beer, wine, and harder spirits. Then there are a number of items where indexation is dropped, for example. in relation to chocolate and wine, and that means de facto cheapening, as the charges are not indexed with current price developments. Everything else equal must lead to an additional consumption of goods which have health consequences. In addition, this costs about 200 million dollars. kr. At a time when transfer incomes are being cut, 200 million can easily be found. kr. here to drop an indexing of a number of charges. We believe that this is a biased priority on the part of the Enhedslisten. And that is why we cannot support the bill either. In relation to the research tax scheme, it is true that, despite our fundamental opposition to the research tax scheme, I would say that at least a change has been made here which is close to being revenue-neutral. I just want to say that it would have been easier for us to eat this bill if we had financed reductions in certain taxes by increasing them elsewhere. So there are taxes that could easily be looked at, for example. on endocrine disruptors, pesticides, etc. that could be raised to find money for this proposal... not that it would make us cheer over the indexation of a number of charges, but it would have done better. It could have been a good solution. This is not the way the government wants to go, it is not the deal that has been made. On the contrary, the business package of which this bill forms part has decided to reduce taxes on phthalates and PVC, which is deeply worrying from an environmental point of view. We are therefore dealing with another tax relief in a gradually endless series of tax cuts which will also affect the environment, which will affect health and the drinking habits of young people. And this is therefore a bill to which Enhedslisten says no. This is a bill that we cannot support.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205154728	It then gave rise to a simple question from Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205154733	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I agree with the general principles that behavior regulation must be there because you have to become healthier or pollute less and so on, but you also have to take stock of reality. I actually think that young people can distinguish between the fact that if they get a drink of alcohol, which is perhaps a rum and cola, or whatever it may be, there is an additional levy, but if you buy a bottle of rum and a cola separately and mix them, then there is no additional levy. Well, I actually think the young people are smart enough to just mix it up themselves, and then they might mix up something stronger that makes it even more harmful to health. So can't Enhedslisten see that it's a little weird that you have a tax on what's mixed, which is higher than if you mix it yourself? If, at the same time, you can see that more than half of the consumption is just taken south of the border, then perhaps this is not the best way to regulate behaviour. So it makes sense to try to make young people drink less, but this additional levy may just not be a good way to do it. I would just like to ask whether the Enhedslisten will not accept that there may also be charges that could sound excellent from the outset, but that when you look at reality, you see that they just have some biasing effects that make them perhaps not have the effect that you had actually hoped for.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205154844	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205154845	The additional levy on alcoholic drinks is a wise tax, and it is a pity that it has to be abolished, because it is precisely a way to make it less attractive for young people to choose these types of alcohol which taste like soda which tastes like Fanta. Therefore, they should also be more expensive. It must be less attractive to go to those types of alcohol that can attract young people in particular, in a situation where we have very, very high alcohol consumption among young people. That is basically the wrong way to go. In relation to cross-border trade, I would like to say that, first of all, border trade is decreasing. That's one thing. The second point is that the part of the soda-ash levy in the price of a soda-ash or the share of the levy in the price of a product is quite similar to the share of the levy in Germany. What really makes the difference is German VAT and lower costs, for example. salaries in Germany. It is there, it really is something that draws differences in prices between Denmark and Germany. So to make the whole discussion of the tax itself the decisive factor for cross-border trade, in my opinion, is a quite wrong interpretation of how reality is connected.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205155006	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205155008	I do not agree with that, because it is therefore the price difference that gives the incentive to drive south of the border and to trade. And when the Danes have an additional levy on a Sommersby, a good Danish drink, and the Germans do not, it gives a part of the price difference, which makes you drive down and trade south of the border. I understand that there are other differences too, but one way to limit it is to remove the additional levy, which means that more than half of the Danes' consumption is bought south of the border. I think it is particularly strange that if you mix your own Captain Morgan and Coke, it is without an additional levy, but you buy a product something similar, but where it is mixed for you, it is with I almost bet that when you sit and mix at home in the living rooms, it can easily be double up or triple up on alcohol, which is far more harmful to health than it is if you buy a product that actually has a relatively low alcohol percentage. All I'm thinking is that Enhedslisten will only regulate his behavior on the tax. Wouldn't it make sense for the parents to have a talk with their children? There could be campaigns that could be teaching at school. I mean, there are other ways than just the tax screw to do that. I just think that here we have a good example of the fact that when everything becomes virtually just border trade instead, it may not be the best place to regulate behaviour.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205155121	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205155123	I mean, this bill makes it more attractive for young people to drink alcohol, and it is the wrong way to go in a situation where Danish young people are already some of those who drink the most in Europe. That is why the draft law is fundamentally wrong. In relation to how much the tax means for cross-border trade, I would say that it does not mean very much, in relation to, for example, German VAT is much lower. This is where the main part of the price difference lies. So the argument that taxes here are of enormous importance, I simply do not believe that they are valid in the real world.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205155151	The next question is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205155155	Thank you. I'm also gonna ask you about the alcohol soda thing. Back then, sir. After all, Rune Lund and I were young and were in high school, there was no alcohol soda, but what has been the trend in alcohol consumption since then? Does the rapporteur know how alcohol consumption among young people, for example? The 15-year-olds have been since we were young?
ParlaMint-DK_20171205155213	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205155215	I can see, of course, when I look at the statistics, that young people today have a much more sensible relationship with alcohol than we had at the beginning of the 1990s. You can see that from the statistics, but why should we be working against the development that is so sensible, by making it cheaper and more attractive to choose in particular this kind of 'yes', excuse me for child-friendly alcohol, if you must be so rude to call it what is very, very easy for young people to choose because it tastes like soda?
ParlaMint-DK_20171205155256	Do we need more confessions? Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205155259	Yes, because there is always something that young people are looking for. I remember when I was young, we drank Pisang Ambon, and I bought vodka and sweets, which I crushed, and made little gray myself. So it is not a question of how to approach alcohol and what it is of alcohol that you choose, but rather of whether there is a distortion of alcohol consumption.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205155319	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205155321	I will not list everything that I myself drank at the beginning of the 1990s for the questioner, but it is true that there are different types of alcohol. Bottom line for me is that it is quite simply unreasonable to make alcohol more attractive to young people, even in a situation where we actually have a positive development where there is less drinking than has been done in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205155343	We can thus thank the rapporteur. There were no more confessions. On the other hand, the next rapporteur is in the line of Mr Cousté's report. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205155401	Thank you for that, President. After all, it is not every time you go up on this platform that you think that the bill under consideration is equally good, even if you want to vote in favour of it. That's the way it is. But this is certainly one of the really, really good legislative proposals that we in the Liberal Alliance are very, very happy about. It is a question of canceling some of the planned increases in taxes on chocolate, wine, sugar and coffee by the Social Democratic Party; it is a question of abolishing the weeping nut tax that many politicians across the middle have themselves said they would like to abolish when they have got a microphone stuck up their face. I think that almost everyone has said that they want to. But now there is actually a government that abolishes it. We will have the packaging tax abolished on beer and soft drinks. We are abolishing the additional levy on alcoholic drinks and abolishing the levy on tea. And then we also extend the research tax scheme from 5 years to 7 years. Not only are these really, really good tax reductions, but the funding is also very good. Financing shall consist, inter alia, of: of the fact that we are creating a more rational incentive system for the employment effort, so that money is spent smarter. It is right, really sensible... so that we create an incentive for the job centres to initiate the initiatives and activities that actually work, instead of just looking at how to get the highest refund. But also lowers business support, and we think that is a very sensible thing to do. Businesses do not need State aid. On the contrary, there must be lower taxes and charges. All in all, this bill is about 500 million. kr. less to the depravity of the country, so it is a really, really good bill that we warmly support.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205155632	I would like to thank the rapporteur for this. There is one comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205155639	I've heard a lot from Mr. Knox. Joachim B. Olsen states that no State aid or aid must be granted to industry. It could be that there could be a new New Alliance of Liberal Alliances and SF, which looked through the many, many support schemes that are for business and the numerous state banks, you might call what is also in this area. But in relation to this specific bill, I just want to know if Mr. Joachim B. Olsen does not see the research tax as a business subsidy.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205155714	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205155716	Yeah, I actually think you could say there's a point in that. It is remarkable, of course, when you sometimes hear the left say that tax does not really matter when it comes to attracting investment and qualified labour; no, people want to come here because we have such a good welfare system. But it may also help that we have a special scheme that only pays 27 per cent. Baby. So something matters, though, darling. At least there's recognition of that on the left. I'm actually really happy about that. We certainly believe in LA that this researcher tax scheme should be abolished, but that is assuming that we have a more rational and competitive tax system. It is actually a little funny, because if there had been no high-skilled people with high wages, it would have been called social dumping; that is, there were some foreigners who would have some tax advantages here in Denmark that Danes would not have. But now we have a very irrational tax system and far too high taxes in Denmark, and then this is such a pragmatic solution to get some highly qualified foreigners to Denmark. And, of course, we know that they help create growth and prosperity and also generate new jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205155840	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205155843	Thank you. I welcome the rapporteur's clear answer, because it is precisely high-paid people. The rapporteur is right to say that if it were very low-paid people, some of the cases we see with social dumping would have been the opposite problem. But here it is often for industries and industries where wages are high, and so are they here. 'Cause after all, you're gonna have to make more than $5,000. to be on the researcher tax scheme. Despite this rather pragmatic approach to the research tax scheme, does the rapporteur not think that it should at least be narrowed down to what people are thinking of when they hear the word'scientists' tax scheme', rather than sports stars and all sorts of other things? I guess you should call it by its right name.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205155938	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205155939	Perhaps you should call it something else, but a football club is also an economic activity, and those you attract are also highly qualified people. So I think there is such a bit of snobbery in saying that only some people are wearing a white coat whose competences are important because it feels a little good. But we can say that if you are a highly qualified footballer, it is also a qualification, and that is something that is also demanded. It is also business companies. So maybe I don't agree with that. But I agree with that, and I think most Danes think that we call it a science tax scheme. Of course, playing football has little to do with being a researcher, but it is about qualified labour and our ability to attract it, and so there is also recognition on the left that our tax burden in Denmark is simply high and that we must therefore reduce the tax on certain people. But the right answer is, of course, to put it down for Danes. The Danes have to pay less in taxes.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205160040	Thank you. That was a final remark from Mr. Joachim B. Olsen. Then it's mr. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205160050	In the alternative, we want to have a society that is greener and healthier and where we create more intelligent solutions. It requires a strong welfare society with plenty of economy for the right things. There we have to say that a bill like this contains elements that we can say yes to, but generally speaking, when we have the linguist that says that we want a healthier and greener Denmark, we will also take care of ourselves, that we say that then there are some things that should not be done cheaper. We would like to use the tax system to promote what we would like more of and say no to what we would like less of. This does not mean that you should not buy the unhealthy, in this case something with sugar in, or if it was cigarettes or even in this case something with alcohol in, but it is just a question of what it is that we want to promote; what it is that we want to encourage you to get at a cheaper price or that becomes more accessible. We would say that in our view this bill promotes the consumption of alcohol and also the consumption of sugar which is not desirable. Then you can say who is not desirable for it, and now you have to decide what to put in your mouth. No, we don't, but we can set a course. That's why we're politicians. That is actually what we are going to do when we say that we want to impose taxes on, for example, sugar and on, for example, alcohol and cigarettes. There's what you can miss with the cross-border trade, and that's the big ghost in this. I am sure I will be asked: what are you going to do with the many billions that pass over to the wrong side of the border? There we will say that what about the health system. What kind of calculations do we see, perhaps in the same billion-dollar class, if we change our consumption; if we change those taxes, for example, increase them or double them on cigarettes? What if, with regard to alcohol, we got a different culture? What would that do to the lifestyle diseases that our health system is dealing with when we cut in the regions and in hospitals; when you have to run faster and faster? Is it not the wrong signal to send when you say that you want to make it cheaper and more competitive to buy sugar and alcohol? We think so. On the other hand, we are putting a check sign on the nut tax; we can well agree to change that. Tea tax, yes, why not? The research scheme is a little more special. I myself have worked in a football club and have all sorts of good things to say about the players who were there, and I would like to have more talent for Denmark, including both the Danish and the foreign, but I can follow what the SF's rapporteur says about the area. So, a research scheme, are it really elite athletes who should be encouraged by it? That is not what is falling on us, but we will at least continue to work to ensure that we have a cleaner research regime if possible. This one's relatively self-financing, so it looks reasonable. We can support that part too. But we have to stand up to the idea that border trade is this great ghost that can destroy Danish economy. We believe, on the other hand, that this is much more due to the conditions that people are invited to work in Germany than to the Danish ones. It may be just as good to come down and buy into a German supermarket, but we just have to be aware that the conditions under which you work, the wage conditions, are somewhat different from those we have in Denmark. And if we start to compete on the price by lowering taxes or by believing that that is what is doing alone, then I think we are going to shoot ourselves in the foot. At any rate, we will not have the redeeming effect, namely that no one is going down and shopping anymore. That's not what settles our economy at home. We need to look at what it does for our public health as well. We need to look at the whole country and not just in the area where there are people who have the incentive to drive down the border because it is close enough to save the x number of crowns it will now give. We need to look at the whole country. We must send a signal that we want to promote healthy and sustainable food that provides healthier Danes and a greener Denmark. We should not suffer from the fact that we want to do away with cross-border trade, because that is not such a big problem either. We also need to look at the health balance, where we could also save billions by doing the right thing. So we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205160452	There are a few brief comments. It's first, sir. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205160456	Thank you. I really think that is an interesting view of things, as the alternative here shows. René Gade says well enough and I thank you that it's not a question of not buying these things. After all, I think it is very important that we are free people who decide what we are allowed to buy and that we are adults, self-employed people, so I suppose it should be. I understand that, after all, you are also involved. But there is such an argument about the health system that something is becoming more expensive, and then people may become a little more unhealthy, and then health costs increase. I really think that this is a very unpleasant way of looking at people, and I think it says something about the welfare state, which is not very good. In other words, at some point it is decided that we should have free access to the health system, that it should be tax-financed and that everyone should have access to it. I totally agree with that. However, it seems logical that we should also be allowed to decide how people should live their lives. Then we put taxes on things that we don't like grown-ups drinking and eating. So the fact that we have one obviously means that in here we have to decide how to live and how to live, and we must try to get them in the direction that we think is right. That's just where we disagree. I don't like that. After all, these taxes do not affect the rapporteur and myself, who have high wages and incomes. After all, they hit people with low incomes who then cannot afford or find it harder to afford to live what they themselves think is the good life. I guess they should be allowed to define that for themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205160641	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205160643	I have had many exciting discussions about this and also with the Liberal Alliance, where I always say that I think we are very much in agreement that we should have the free and good life and that we should give people the opportunity to decide for themselves. But just as we have speed limits that help to define how to act in traffic, and just as we have rules for schooling and one thing and the other, which we think are useful for children to get out and be ready for society, we would also like from the alternative to having a healthy diet say "you can remember this picture that when you went to school you lay and watched at the dentist, when you lay and looked up at the ceiling, with the pyramid of diets and one and the other you can remember that it is not just madness that someone has found that there is something healthier to eat than anything else. Not everyone gets an upbringing that makes you aware of it. Not all of us, as adults, are able to live well all the time, at least not myself. However, we would like to motivate you to eat as healthy as you like and as you can, by lowering taxes on what is healthy and by increasing taxes on what is actually directly harmful to health and which therefore also places a burden on our health system. But you can buy everything you want from the unhealthy goods. You have to be allowed to do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205160747	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205160749	Of course, it's a good idea for people to live healthy. You can think that, and I can think that too. I just think that we should basically recognise that not all people want to live exactly as the rapporteur does, just as not all people want to live exactly as I do. Summa summarum is just that when you put high taxes on what is unhealthy, if you get too much of it, and we have done that in Denmark, it is those with the lowest incomes that get harder on it. And I believe that those who respond at least to tax increases because they just prioritise it are those with high incomes who, on average, live healthier than those with low incomes. And that does not indicate that they are responding to what to say very much about the fact that there are charges. On the contrary, I believe that taxes can make people live more unhealthy. At least I think that many people know it, that if you drive down to the border, you buy in a whole lot. And you simply consume much more of those products because you buy in large quantities. On the other hand, if the charges were a little lower and you bought it here in Denmark, you would probably also buy a little less. In fact, studies also show this. So I think the whole premise is wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205160915	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205160917	In any case, I think it is a good thing that it can be said with quite a degree of certainty that the empire, in relation to the fact that the frontier trade will simply have this ketchup effect, which the Ministry of Finance has sometimes been out to talk about in raising or lowering taxes, shows that it is not present. It is an assumption that there will be a ketchup effect: if you raise taxes very much, behavior will change completely. I do not agree with that, nor do I hear the rapporteur say that. But it is just to lay the foundations that there is some of what has to do with behavior, that there is some of what has to do with habits, and then there is definitely some of what has to do with price. People go down there and buy it because it's cheaper and then others go down there to get a ride out of it. What we are saying in the alternative is that we will not be under the impression that because some people go down and trade at the border because they save some money, we should not set the right direction in Denmark and make the good food in our eyes and in the eyes of many health professionals cheaper. We want to make good food cheaper. But this proposal takes something from the common fund to make some foods that we do not think are good for health cheaper. We will not stand by that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205161021	Then it's Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205161024	I also think it is positive that people are living healthy, but I do not agree with the assumption that this bill should make people want to live more unhealthy. Let's take this alcohol soda again. It is true that with the additional levy that is currently in place, you are distorting the consumption of alcoholic drinks against the stronger alcohol. This means that it is better for two young girls going to a party to buy a Pisang Ambon than it can buy some alcohol soda. It is not necessarily healthier for them to drink Pisang Ambon. It may actually be more unhealthy because the percentages are higher. That is why I believe that this is the wrong assumption made by the rapporteur, and that is why I would like to hear the rapporteur's comment on whether it is a good idea to distort consumption towards stronger alcohol rather than alcohol drinks.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205161109	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205161110	I do not think we should talk about it, and that is why my answer is to the very last question: No, I do not think that you should drink stronger alcohol as a young person rather than drink alcohol soda. I have to admit that, and that's not my aim either. Then I would have decided to say Malibu from up here today. There have been so many other drinks in play since that time. Malibu could also be an ingredient you mixed up with anything else. And no, there is no desire on the part of the alternative to make some alcohol cheaper than anything else. It's just our idea that when you make alcoholic drinks, as everything else is just targeted a group that doesn't necessarily like the taste of alcohol, it often rhymes with the fact that some younger people start taking something for granted, so you just drink alcohol, as if it were soda. I think that trend is wrong. We do not believe that we can stop them by raising taxes, but we just think it is a wrong direction to say that we want to reduce the tax on alcoholic drinks. The wording alone is something wrong with me. You are welcome to drink it, but you can see in the same way that in schools there are children who have started to buy energy drinks because they can see that adults drink them all the time, and in my view it is a very, very unhealthy trend that children get used to drinking caffeine-containing drinks because they are available. And it's the same with alcohol soda. If it becomes something you just buy from a very early age where you don't really like alcohol, it's not something we want to support. I am not saying that public health is going to fall dramatically with this. I am just saying that this is a direction that we do not want to motivate people to move in through a reduction in taxes.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205161232	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205161233	Well, look, when I was young, you bought Pisang Ambon, vodka and everything else you mixed up yourself, and it wasn't healthier. I really think it is a bigger step to go over and buy a bottle of strong alcohol than to buy a drink of alcohol. It has been documented that alcohol consumption since 2002, i.e. over the last 15 years, has been decreasing for young people, despite the introduction of alcohol soda in 2006. After all, does it not make the impression that even the introduction of alcoholic drinks has not increased consumption, even if there was no additional levy in the past?
ParlaMint-DK_20171205161307	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205161308	I think that the specific cases here make our discussion very understandable, and I also think it is interesting to look at what it is that the individual has consumed in the past, but whether alcohol soda or wine has been introduced, or whether there is a new, exciting product on the market that one can drink, is not what I am interested in. I am interested in the direction we are taking, and I would just like to say that we will not reduce taxes on alcohol and that we will not reduce taxes on cigarettes. This is going in the wrong direction for us. We do not object to people smoking or drinking, but we simply see no reason to encourage it through tax reductions.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205161338	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Alternative. Then it's mr. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205161346	Apart from the relaxation of the researcher's tax scheme, this bill is not Radical Left's cup of tea and it is even if tea becomes cheaper because the tax on tea is completely removed. We have made an agreement with the governing parties and the Danish People's Party on a business package. In it, we have reduced the tax on capital for entrepreneurship, and there will be an increased deduction for companies when they are researching and developing, and we will have the electric heating tax halved so that we can have a green conversion of our heat production. The legislative proposal here then contains a number of tax concessions which other parties have had as a matter of priority and which we are voting in favour of, because this is part of the compromise that that agreement represents. We would have preferred to have seen tax relief on labour or tax relief on capital for entrepreneurs rather than to have eased the tax on nuts and chocolate, but there are others who wanted that. We note that it is a so-called vote agreement. This means that we will vote in favour of the law, but the Radical Left is also free to be able, for example, at a later date. Reimpose the indexation of excise duties and finance tax reliefs on work along these lines. And we will be interested in that if at some point there could be a majority in favour of it. However, as part of the agreement, we will of course vote in favour of the draft law as it stands here.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205161522	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then we've reached the SF, and that's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205161538	Thank you. With the inspiration of the Left's tax rapporteur, what we are discussing today could be called the Bacardi Breezer Act. As several others have said, a number of tax elements come out of the vote agreement on the business and entrepreneurial initiatives, which SF is not part of. That is why I also think it makes sense to briefly outline some things from the package. We are going to discuss it in different parts, but overall we have it in the SF so that we find it difficult to see the package as a serious bid to solve the business challenges. There is not a penny for training; on the contrary, the municipal employment effort is being cut. And in relation to research, a lot of money is spent on rewarding the companies that are already researching. That is what I know my colleague in the Liberal Alliance Joachim B. Olsen often likes to discuss, namely loss of weight, where you can say: what else do we really get out of it? At the same time, since the elections, the two left-wing governments have also cut about. 10% to public research. There is some business policy in the overall package here, but that is less than 10%. The remaining 90%. In the case of tax reliefs, tax reliefs are granted. Some of them are reasonable. As the tax rapporteur, I basically have the view that the taxes that cannot be explained cannot be defended. And for example... The nut tax is just stupid, and so is the tea and coffee tax. Of course, it costs something to do away with it, and we also had funding for it, but we could not agree to the funding included in this package. But just to stress: the three parts we actually think are good in themselves to get rid of. In addition, on the research allowance, it can be said that it is increasing from 100 per cent. at 110%. of the tax. This will greatly benefit the pharmaceutical industry. It is not a bad thing in itself, but it is a subsidy for research that would have taken place in any case. It can also be compared with the lack of money for public energy research in relation to the government's own objectives. It would have been much more targeted to increase public research, including business-oriented research such as EUDP and MUDP in the fields of energy and the environment respectively. It is just to mention some of the other things that are in the package, because it cannot be seen separately. That is also why it is a comprehensive package. Some of what we have a major problem with in the SF is funding, as I said. To cut employment by almost 1 billion. kr. This is what we expect each year because we remove the State's reimbursement of the costs of active employment policy, is crying out in our optics, especially in terms of raising people who have to enter the labour market. This must also be in the interests of business. The fact that you spend less money on DSB is, of course, almost a tragic logic. When we have also seen three times the tax reductions on the most expensive cars in particular, there is almost a logic from this government that money is then removed from public transport. And then there's the use of the room. That money could have been spent on welfare; it is about 0.5 billion. kr. a year. The rest of the funding seems to us to be reasonable, except, frankly, the theft of the PSO pool. I mean, we can have a political disagreement in here, but what does it look like to steal money from an agreement that other parties are part of? Well, I think it's shameful beyond all bounds. Anyway, this specific agreement, that is to say the cancellation of planned investment in taxes, the reduction in the raw materials tax, the abolition of the tax on tea and alcoholic drinks, the researcher's tax scheme and the increase in the gross tax rate, is, as I said, somewhat a mixed country trade in our optics. In short, coffee, tea and nuts are a good idea; the Bacardi Breezer part of it seems we are completely hollow in the head. The government itself writes in the comments that the research tax scheme is just going to attract and maintain highly qualified research and development workers from abroad. It is not only that; it also goes to many other parts. We think that it is unreasonable to give a number of tax concessions to foreign footballers, while Danish footballers should not have them and the same if you work at Novo Nordisk or wherever it may be. So it's not our cup of tea either. Overall, and it is a package that we say 'yes' or 'no' to it, we cannot support it. There are good elements, but there are too many of the bad elements.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205162116	Thank you to the rapporteur, there are no brief comments. The next one is sir. Anders Johansson, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205162128	The draft law we are discussing, as the previous rapporteur has said, aims to implement the agreement on a business and entrepreneurship package concluded by the government with the Radical Left and the Danish People's Party. And since the Conservative People's Party is part of the agreement, we can of course back the bill. I would like to start by thanking the other parties for their good cooperation in the creation of this business and entrepreneurial package. It is important for the Danish business community and for Danish entrepreneurs that we constantly focus on how we can improve conditions for Danish companies, so that they are best equipped for the future. Because when it goes well for Danish companies, it goes well for Denmark. The overall agreement we have reached contains 35 good, concrete initiatives and a total framework of 2.2 billion. kr., when the initiatives are staged in 2025, and with the bill we are now discussing, we will then implement some of the initiatives in the field of taxation. The first part deals with the reorganisation, elimination and reduction of a number of taxes, which are intended partly to clean up a bureaucratic mess and partly to make Danish companies more competitive, reduce border trade and strengthen the purchasing power of Danes. There has long been a great deal of dissatisfaction with the tax environment, which many companies are subject to on many different products. Often the charges bear the hallmark of historical conditionality, and there has long been a need to clean up the tax jungle. We have now started this work and it is good for Denmark. We are now abolishing the tea tax, the hated nut tax and the additional levy on alcoholic drinks. Later, among other things, follow. packaging tax on mortgaged drinks, taxes on rain clothes and a number of other taxes. In addition, we reduce taxes and roll back planned tax increases. The second part of the bill, which is also from the agreement, concerns the extension of the research scheme. The Conservative People's Party is a major supporter of lower taxes on labour. This helps to increase the supply of labour and thus also the possibility that Danish companies can attract sufficient labour. The researcher tax scheme is also of great benefit to Danish companies. The scheme ensures that companies can attract highly qualified workers with very specific skills required by companies. That is why we are very pleased that we have succeeded in extending the scheme from five years as it is today and up to seven years. This will make it easier to attract foreign experts who can make Danish companies more competitive. So all in all, it is some very good measures that will strengthen the competitiveness of Danish companies and thus also help create Danish jobs in the future and generate more tax revenue for the community. That is why, of course, the Conservative People's Party can support the agreement, with which we are very pleased, and we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205162436	Thank you very much. There is one brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205162441	Thank you. I don't think I'm the only one who's had a little fun about this rainwear argument. Well, it's almost poetic to wrap something quite environmentally harmful into rain clothes. Then you also see such a cute little child in a yellow raincoat. However, my question is this: Conservatives often want to address themselves as the right-wing green party. What are the arguments for having PVC and phthalates in the agreement? I mean, I just can't see the argument but that you want to raise some money and do something for business reasons. But it is so harmful to the environment and health.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205162525	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205162526	It is always a balancing act when we look at these taxes, because it is important that we ensure that Danish companies have sufficient competitiveness. At the same time, it can be said that within the European Union there is already regulation in this area. That is why I think it is actually very sensible for us to adopt the EU regulation that is already in place, because in this way we also ensure that Danish companies have the best possible conditions to compete in the internal European market. In fact, there has been a regulation that ensures that there is a common set of rules in the European Union, and we think it is sensible to follow this approach.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205162559	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205162600	Thank you. But, for example, as far as I'm concerned... Bisphenol A, I have at least heard the rapporteur's colleague Mrs Mette Abildgaard say, when we had a debate on it in Denmark years ago, that it was positive that Denmark was so much at the forefront of the European Union. Then the rest of the EU came along, and that was very good, but in relation to bisphenol A, which is so harmful to the health of young children, Denmark took the lead. These are also PVC and phthalates, which are also harmful to health and the environment. Why should Denmark not take the lead here, and how does this harmonize with the green profile of the Conservatives?
ParlaMint-DK_20171205162643	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205162644	Well, I think, as I said before, it's important that we have a focus on it. It is important that we have a focus on how to improve the environment, also in relation to the chemicals used in the industries. That is why there is work under the auspices of the European Union. I just think it is inappropriate if we put some specific barriers for Danish companies, so that they will get more difficult to compete, because then production will simply move to those countries where it is easier. As long as you have free opportunity to move goods and capital within the EU's borders, something that we salute and are happy about, and which also ensures Danish jobs, it doesn't make much sense that we have a special rule in Denmark that allows you to simply move the production south of the border and then import the goods to Denmark, or how you want to knit it together. So it is inappropriate to simply move production somewhere else within the borders of the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205162734	Then we can thank the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. And we will immediately proceed to the tax minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205162744	Thank you for that and thank you for receiving the bill. As a number of rapporteurs have mentioned, we are implementing a substantial part of the elements of the business and entrepreneurship agreement concluded last month by the government with the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left, and I would like to sign for a good and constructive negotiation process. I am very pleased, as a Leftman and tax minister, to implement a significant reduction in the tax burden so that being a Dane becomes cheaper. The Danes often trade across national borders.There is nothing new about this, especially when the goods you buy south of the border are cheaper than those you can trade in the local use. This gives Danes better consumption opportunities and increases their purchasing power. However, some of the border trade can be attributed to the fact that Danish excise duties are significantly higher than in our neighbouring countries, and we have strange taxes in Denmark on all sorts of mysterious things. And in some cases, therefore, we get cross-border trade which is higher than the socio-economic one is beneficial. That is why I am also extremely pleased that the planned tax increases on chocolate, wine and coffee, which should have entered into force on 1 January next year, are being withdrawn and that we are abolishing the additional levy on alcohol soft drinks, which has led in particular to cross-border trade and illegal trade. The health effects of abolishing the additional levy, as a number of rapporteurs have also mentioned, are therefore extremely limited, while there is no health justification for the nut tax or tea tax. These are fiscally justified taxes, and the charges present challenges for Danish companies in the form of administrative burdens. I am therefore also pleased that the nut tax, the tea tax and the additional levy on alcoholic drinks are abolished altogether. It is quite historic if you look at how many times we have discussed the special nut tax. So it is wonderful that we have succeeded, and I would like to thank you for that. When things are going well for the Danish companies, Denmark is also doing well, and an extension of the research tax scheme has long been sought after by the Danish business community. The expansion makes it more attractive for highly educated, qualified employees to take up work in Denmark, and with a longer-lasting and more flexible scheme Danish companies are better placed not only to attract but also to retain the necessary skilled labour. And the extension from 5 to 7 years funds itself to some extent by increasing the tax rate from 26 to 27 per cent at the same time. We are, of course, a number of people who pay taxes in Denmark who dream of being allowed to pay so little tax, but I am not sure that the socio-economic situation will be linked to bringing down the tax burden, and there is certainly no majority in favour of it in the Folketing. But it should not stop us from doing this necessary reduction for foreign labour, which means that we can lure some very wise heads into Denmark and we can be competitive. This bill is the first in the series to implement the various parts of the agreement on enterprise and entrepreneurship initiatives. Later this month, as Minister for Tax Affairs, I will make a further proposal containing reductions in the electricity tax and the water tax for campsites and marinas, as well as a tax reduction for small producers of spirits, as we have also agreed. I would like to make it clear that the task of bringing down the various excise duties does not end here. The report published by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection contained a large number of proposals for improvement which are not considered to have significant revenue implications. This means in good Danish that it was not estimated that it really cost anything and that in many cases the administrative costs might be higher than the revenue that comes in. And that is why, together with the circle of agreements in the autumn, I will come up with a further reorganisation package with a view to implementing these reorganisation proposals. The clean-up of excise duties is therefore a task that I, as tax minister, will follow closely in the coming years. I would like to thank you for the debate that has taken place and, of course, to make myself available for questions here and in committee. The main feature of the debate has been the debate on alcoholic drinks and the additional levy on them. There may of course be some health aspects, and I would like to say that my position as tax minister is that I think it is more effective to conduct health policy in other ways than through our tax system. And I think it is a pity that there cannot be a little proportion in the debate, in the sense that this is about lowering taxes for over 700 million. kr., and then it is an additional levy on alcoholic drinks, where the net revenue is 10 million. kr., which must, like, fill the debate. I think that is a bit of a pity and a pity, but it is, of course, entirely up to the Danish Parliament's parties what is being discussed. But from the government's point of view, it must be the great reduction and abolition of nut tax, packaging tax and indexation, which is what matters.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205163249	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. No one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205163312	The debate is open and I give the floor to the Minister for Defence.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205163337	The authors of the motion for a resolution B 40 wants to require me to withdraw from the Committee on Finance file 31 on the purchase of new fighter aircraft. At the same time, they point out that they cannot support the government's proposal to spend billions of dollars on the purchase of new fighter planes. Let me begin by pointing out that the decision to acquire new fighter aircraft is based on a broad political agreement. On 9 June 2016, the then government entered into an agreement with the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Radical Left to acquire 27 new combat aircraft of the type F-35A Joint Strike Fighter to replace the aging F-16 fighter of the defence. The proposers, whose parties are not part of this agreement, point out in their motion for a resolution that they want less emphasis on the use of military, which is why they are against new fighters. To this I can say that the government attaches importance to Denmark's continuing to have fighter aircraft for sovereignty, international operations and ultimate collective defence in the framework of NATO. It would be my expectation that a majority in the Folketing would share this view. The proposers also consider that the economic basis is so uncertain that no contract should be concluded for the purchase of the politically decided new fighter aircraft. First of all, I can stress that Act 31, which has been transmitted to the Parliamentary Finance Committee, is based on a solid basis which the Ministry of Defence has worked to further qualify since the political agreement. This is among other things. through dialogue with the US F-35 programme, which has regularly assisted the Ministry of Defence with updated financial information. Having said that, there are, of course, still uncertainties linked to the economic basis, and the uncertainties that the Ministry of Defence has also put forward openly, both in the context of the political agreement and in the file. However, the fact that there are uncertainties is not the same as saying that the overall basis is too uncertain to be able to start purchasing. One of the most important financial uncertainties is the development of the dollar exchange rate, where the Ministry of Defence has a close dialogue with the Ministry of Finance and the National Bank on exchange rate protection. In addition, the New Kampfly programme, together with the other partner countries, participates in the programme's steering group, where it is possible to follow developments. The Ministry of Defence will, of course, follow developments in the project's economy closely and continuously inform both the conciliation circle and the Finance Committee about this. This brings me to the proposers' suggestion that the Finance Committee should wait to approve the signing of contracts until the uncertainties have been clarified. To that I would like to start by repeating that the uncertainties have been clarified and assessed. We are talking about the future and the security that the proposers suggest can be achieved does not exist. In my optics, it is not an option that Denmark waits to acquire fighter planes until they face phasing out, to be a little polemical. It is only then that we know for sure what it will have cost to own and use the fighter planes. I do not think we can wait for that. Therefore, it is now necessary to deal with Act 31 so that Denmark can get started on the actual acquisition of the new F-35 fighter aircraft and thus ensure that the defence can also have a combat aircraft capacity in the future. The file needs to be examined now, as the first contracts are expected to be concluded by mid-January 2018 at the latest. Otherwise, the Danish defence will not be able to carry out the politically determined task solution within the time limits set out in the political agreement. In the comments to the motion for a resolution, the authors refer to the criticism of the National Audit Board of the calculations in the basis of the type selection. To this I note that since the Reichsaudit's recommendations, on the basis of their audit of the Ministry of Defence's decision-making basis for the purchase of 27 F-35 combat aircraft, a validation and consolidation of the assumptions and calculations made in relation to the decision-making basis has been carried out. This work has now been translated into a concrete project economy in the document presented. The authors also point out that the American National Audit Office has criticised the economic and technical aspects of the F-35 project. In this context, I understand that these are challenges which the American F-35 programme is aware of and, moreover, largely agree with why hard work is already being done to improve conditions. In my view, it is only positive that the American National Audit Office is following the work of the programme. The proposers conclude by noting that smaller portions of fighter aircraft should be available so that it is possible to back out at a later stage if the F-35s become more expensive or worse. In addition, the political agreement on the purchase of new fighter aircraft indicates that the conciliation circle must be involved before the last six aircraft are contracted. A follow-up has already been agreed before the acquisition of all 27 combat aircraft has been completed. It should be noted in this connection that the Finance Committee will receive an annual balance sheet on the development of the acquisition project by the Ministry of Defence. In addition, the Financial Committee will be informed if there are significant differences in the financial basis of the acquisition. As can be seen from the file, a separate legal basis will be sought for the construction works at Flystation Skrydstrup. The decision to make a construction law ensures a process comparable to that of other major public works. Following the political decision in June 2016, a new candidate-specific noise calculation of F-35 was initiated. The noise calculation will be completed before the submission of the proposal for construction law at the beginning of 2019. However, the preliminary results show that noise limits will not be met in all cases. The noise emitted by the flights is expected to exceed the limit value in an area close to the runway of the flight station. It is expected as a starting point to affect in the order of 10-15 rural buildings. On this basis, it is likely to be an expropriation, but it depends on the final noise calculations. Therefore, the up-to-date cost of preparing the flight station is also set aside for the expropriation of properties. The so-called one line concept for F-35 means that workshops, hangars and take-off areas are planned together to optimise the operation of the aircraft. The noise from this complex, currently planned at the existing so-called 500 complex to F-16, is expected to be less than the limit values. It will probably be approx. 8 weeks a year at shorter intervals when flying in the evening and at night. Based on recent calculations it will affect a number of housing in urban settlement near the flight station, but not to such an extent that it is expected to be expropriation. I would like to repeat here from the platform my regret at the error made in answering the defence committee's question 194 on 23 May 2016 on noise pollution. I regretted and corrected the error to the committee. I have also been asked to explain the situation, and I shall do so in the context of the consultation convened on Thursday, 7 December. I have asked for additional noise calculations to be carried out by alternative location of the F-35 complex at Flystation Skrydstrup as well as comparable noise calculations for the current F-16 aircraft, so that these calculations can also be available as a basis for the proposal for construction law that we expect to present to the Danish Parliament in early 2019. This brings me to my conclusion regarding the government's position on the resolution. As I have said, the motion for a resolution calls on me, as Minister for Defence, to withdraw item 31, thereby creating unnecessary uncertainty about the investment in new fighter aircraft, an investment which is a necessary condition for the defence to be able to carry out the politically determined tasks in the future as well. And it is an investment which, according to the government's assessment, is based on a sufficiently solid economic foundation, in which the acknowledged uncertainties are described. Therefore, the government cannot support the motion for a resolution tabled, B 40, which is why it is recommended that it be rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205164420	Thank you, Minister. There are a few brief comments and the first is from Mrs Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205164427	Massive criticism has been raised both of the government's own calculations and of how things are going with this combat aircraft purchase or the development of the fighter plane. During all the years it has been under discussion, it has been the Government's response that developments are being monitored closely and that the Americans are working to improve the situation. It has just not solved any of these problems, and I think they will come out of the closet in the coming years. There's really, really much to suggest that the economy in this battle airplane purchase is going to explode very, very violently. That is why I would like to hear from the Minister for Defence: can the Minister guarantee that this will not lead to very, very large overruns of the budget, including when it comes to the cost of the aircraft's life? And who is going to pay if there is an excess over the figures that have been presented now?
ParlaMint-DK_20171205164524	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205164526	On the basis of the knowledge we have today, there is clarity about the economy. The information underlying the economics in the file is based on a solid and validated basis. Since the political agreement was concluded, the Ministry of Defence has worked to qualify and clarify the basis of the political agreement. This is among other things. through dialogue with the manufacturer, Lockheed Martin, and the US F-35 programme, which has regularly assisted the Ministry of Defence with updated financial information. Having said that, it would be wrong to claim that there is no uncertainty in relation to the economy in the record. However, the Ministry of Defence will try to minimise this uncertainty as much as possible by, among other things: In addition, the Ministry of Defence will, of course, follow developments closely. We will then inform the Financial Committee and the Conciliation Committee annually if there are any significant changes to that project. So I do not agree that it is not based on a solid basis. The agreement then states that any infringements must be found within the financial framework of the Ministry of Defence, and I can add that 800 million have been set aside today. kr. to counter any increases.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205164701	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205164703	Considering how much this could cost, I think I'll excuse myself for 800 million. kr. will propose as a tailor in hell, and that's what I'm very worried about. I cannot understand why the Secretary of Defense will not at least consider dividing up this purchase, so, like Norway, for example. contracts four or six aircraft at a time, so you actually had the opportunity to see how it is developing in the coming years. I would very much like to hear from the Minister: how on earth can it be that this precaution is not taken in a situation where there is so much uncertainty?
ParlaMint-DK_20171205164736	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205164737	In my view, it does not make sense to split the purchase, because there are a lot of things to do with • building workshops to build hangars; we have to train pilots. So we have to adopt the overall programme, because it makes no sense to get started on these things like that dripping, so a pilot is trained here and two pilots there. The logic suggests, of course, that this is a single package, and that is why we also have to work after it is a single package so that we can dimension how many F-35 pilots we need and what it will require. It doesn't make any sense to have to take a stand on these things.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205164821	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205164823	I have to say that this answer really surprises me very much. So it's clear from this act that you only have to buy ten aircraft in the first place. You buy the planes in pools and make contracts for the individual pools. According to the file, contracts are to be made for the first ten planes, four plus six. Isn't that right? That is why I am surprised that we are asking for more than 16 billion. kr., which has to cover far more than the first ten aircraft, which you have to sign here in the first place. In this context, I would like to ask: what is the price for each aircraft you have to buy here in the first trance of ten aircraft? What do you need in the first place to sign the contracts here right after New Year's? Finally, does the Minister think it is reasonable that we should deal with an act here in the Folketing without knowing the actual contract price formally? Therefore, I would like to ask in cash: what is the price of the individual aircraft?
ParlaMint-DK_20171205164932	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205164933	First of all, I would like to say that we have entered into an agreement to acquire 27 F-35 aircraft, and then the document deals with something other than the purchase of the aircraft itself, among other things. the construction, as I said, of the overall capacity with maintenance concept, IT system, simulators and what is involved. The defence will therefore have to conclude several different contracts throughout the acquisition period. Capacity building has been adapted and dimensioned in order to fulfil the politically defined tasks. It is, of course, part of this discussion that there is also an agreement on what tasks we need to be able to solve, as it showed the dimensioning report that was drawn up. It showed that it took 27 planes. If money is only allocated to the purchase of 10 aircraft, then we cannot, as I said before, train pilots, build maintenance concepts, etc. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. I think it is a reasonable requirement that the defence should have a guarantee that they can do this in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205165056	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205165058	In my opinion, the prerequisites are completely gone too much of what lies in that agreement. Okay, we weren't in it because we don't like what you did. It was then that in connection with the individual contract signature you could do exactly as in Norway, i.e. you could sign in different pools. That is also why it is clear from the record that okay, you take ten in the first place, four plus six, to cover the first two trances. Then, at the next one, new contracts must be written, which must then be assumed that the Danish Parliament will re-enter at least that the conciliation circle will be re-entered and that it is formally possible to withdraw at that time. If, for example, you're gonna have to... Find out that there isn't enough money for this, and you can pull out at this point. Isn't it true that you can? And that it has always been part of, if I may say so, what has been discussed, namely that at least the conclusion of contracts is gradually taking place along the way and that there will be such an ongoing discussion of it as well?
ParlaMint-DK_20171205165210	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205165211	After all, the rapporteur himself has been involved in the negotiations on this purchase of aircraft, and I would just like to repeat once again that if money is allocated only for the purchase of 10 aircraft or 4 aircraft, or whatever it may be, then you cannot train pilots, you cannot build the maintenance concept, etc. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done on this subject. That is why we need to be sure of what this task is and what it is for a combat aircraft capacity that we need to build, in order to support the political agreement on what tasks we must be able to carry out in the future. So, as the rapporteur may have remarked, it is a categorical refusal to divide it here, because it would make no sense at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205165316	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205165319	Thank you to the Minister for running here today. What I'd like to ask you is the annual flight time. As far as I can see, it is assumed that each of the 27 aircraft must be on the wings for an average of 250 hours a year. After all, the National Audit Office criticises the fact that the Ministry has not made it probable how they have arrived at these figures, and I would like the Minister to explain this from the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205165346	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205165348	There are four countries in the F-35 partnership that plan a flight hour production of 250 hours a year or more, while there are three countries that plan a smaller flight hour production. As is also described in the decision-making basis, i.e. the dimensioning report, there are several factors that affect the possibility of achieving high flight hour production. Among other things, it can be done. to expand the production window, which means that you spend several hours a day maintaining and repairing the aircraft. At the same time, the possible flight time production is also linked to whether the mechanics have the necessary spare parts at their disposal when they are needed. It can therefore be said that with the hours we have seen in the F-35 programme so far, it is highly probable that we can reach the 250 hours we are working for. I do not know what conditions the other countries have laid for their purchase of aircraft, because that is not something we are told about. There are two countries, Norway and the Netherlands, which have provided information, just as we ourselves have done, how much they are counting on, but so there are several other countries that are counting on more airtime production than we are. So I feel absolutely convinced that we are on safe ground here.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205165524	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205165525	Thank you. But will the Minister give or what should he say to the Danish Parliament, which other countries it is? Because I think it is worrying that the National Audit Office is giving the criticism they are making, and I think the Minister should take that seriously. I think it is important that we get all the details in place when we believe that we can provide a flight base of 250 hours per flight. years. So can the Minister explain what other countries want to fly more, and what is the basis for their calculations? And the same question applies to Norway and the Netherlands, who want to fly less. These are usually countries we compare with.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205165609	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205165610	I think there are many things that are involved here, among others. in which climate you fly these planes. There will be a difference in that. On the question of whether I will tell you which countries it is, I would like to say that it is a code in this sector that we do not disclose the secrets of other countries, if I may say so, and confidential information, and I do not intend to do so in this case either. When I can talk about Norway, Holland and Denmark, it is because the three countries have voluntarily chosen to tell us what their premise is.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205165649	Thank you to the Minister this time. Of course, he has the opportunity to participate in the debate of the rapporteurs on an ongoing basis. We warmly welcome Mr. Henrik Dam Kristensen from Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205165703	Let me start with the conclusion. Social democracy cannot support the resolution. Firstly, we in the Social Democratic Party believe that the capacity of fighter aircraft is an important capacity. Social democracy is concerned that Denmark, through fighter planes, can contribute to a number of international commitments, also in relation to the overall NATO capacity. And fighter aircraft have proved to be an extremely effective means of combating international terrorism, by the way with so few injured and killed Danish soldiers, because it is so effective a weapon. Secondly, the Social Democratic Party also believes that it is important that Denmark has combat aircraft capacity for sovereignty enforcement. Not least with the increasing tension in the Baltic Sea region, it is absolutely crucial that we have the capacity of fighter aircraft. Finally, I think it is a good thing that Denmark can help allies, such as the Baltic countries and also former Iceland, with what we call air policying, i.e. to monitor their airspace. So there is reason for us to have the capacity of fighters. F-16 has served us well. They are now ready to retire, which is why it is not something that has just come from one day to the next. In fact, it has been a long process in which we have examined the possibilities of replacing F-16. Let me point out that under successive ministers there has been what we called a combat aircraft office, with relatively many employees, including those with high expertise, who have searched and examined the possibilities, in relation to the fact that we could make a political decision. I must also point out that, when we were negotiating these things over a year ago, the lengthy negotiations were that I think those who took part would say that they were relatively many meetings. So I also think that we got to the bottom of things here. Then there was a broad majority who subsequently decided that we would invest in F-35, knowing that we were also involved here in a development project, but for my part I have no doubt that here we bought an aircraft that will be modern and will be able to cope with the challenges and demands and wishes we may have for fighters for many years to come. Then it is the case that we should be careful not to shake hands when we get to the finish line, and now we are at a sort of finish line, because now this has to be adopted as an act in the Committee on Finance. The money has to be found in this area, and if we do not do so now, we will delay the whole process with the consequences, including the economic consequences that it may have. In addition, the commitments that we have internationally will also be pushed. So all in all, I think there is good reason to continue the process adopted by a broad political majority in the Folketing and, for those reasons, the Social Democrats say no to rejecting the act proposed by the three parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205170031	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. There is a brief comment. The first is from Mrs Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205170036	First of all, I would like to say that the rapporteur says that fighter planes are something that does not give so many people killed. I think it is very important to remember that it does not give so many killed Danish soldiers, but sending planes out that bomb has really major consequences for people on land. We've been able to see that around. Bombs are also something that hits civilians. So I do not think this is the right way to conduct foreign policy, in other words to invest in more wars and more bombs. But I understand that this is the way the rapporteur would like to go. Let it go. What I'm interested in asking is about the economy here. I have previously heard the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party say that, in this context, the rapporteur did not think that the criticism of the Reichsaudit was perhaps quite as good as the DOD's own calculations. I find that very, very strange. We have to listen to that criticism. I would like to know whether the rapporteur is now quite confident that this battle aircraft economy will last as it now stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205170145	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205170147	First of all, I must say to Mrs Eva Flyvholm that this was exactly what I said in my speech in relation to the deaths. I said very specifically that this was the case when we talk about Danish soldiers. I fully agree that a capability such as a fighter plane is not a harmless capability. It has consequences. I totally agree with that. I'd like to say something about the National Audit. I think I dare say that it was not least because the Social Democrats were concerned about the fact that the agreement included the fact that the Reichsaudit should follow developments here. Because I think it is a huge investment that we are making, and that is why I am comfortable with the constant monitoring of what is happening: are we now living up to the goals we want year by year? We have been deeply concerned that it became part of the agreement. As a former minister, I would just like to say about the criticism from the National Audit Office that I have a lot of respect for the National Audit Office. The only thing I allowed myself to ask was: I wonder who knows best if you can reach 250 hours of flight • the experts in the Ministry of Defence or the National Audit Office? That was the only question I put in relation to the Reichsaudit because I have full respect for the Reichsaudit.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205170258	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205170300	But that brings me back to the last question: is the rapporteur confident that there will be no major budget overruns in connection with this combat aircraft purchase, and is there any chance that we can back out once it has been signed?
ParlaMint-DK_20171205170318	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205170319	I am as safe as you can be in a situation where we are out in something like the Minister also said in his speech that is a kind of development project. What I just feel is that it is not Denmark itself that has plunged into this. There are a number of other countries which have taken the same decision that we take in Denmark. We're not alone in this. It's actually strong, big countries that are part of this, too. So I'm as safe as I can be in this area. Because this is not a hundred percent guarantee. This would probably not have been possible, no matter what type of aircraft we had chosen. Then I am just glad that we have chosen the sensible approach, namely to take a type of aircraft, which will also be modern for many years to come. The decision we are taking here, I would say to Mrs Flyvholm, is something that is absolutely correct, and it is therefore OK for us to have the debate on it binding generations of politicians in the future too. At least I know I'm not gonna make it to the end. Mrs. Eva Flyvholm is so young that she may have a chance, but I won't be able to be there until the end of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205170423	Then it's mr. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205170426	Thank you. If that is not correct, I should like to ask Mr. Henrik Dam Kristensen, that in the first place we only have to buy ten planes, that is to say, that ten flights will have to be signed after New Year? And he knows Mr. Henrik Dam Kristensen the price for the individual aircraft of those we are buying?
ParlaMint-DK_20171205170450	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205170451	When Mr. Holger K. Nielsen begins a question by saying: is that not correct? Then I'll always be all up on my ass, because then I know that mr. Holger K. Nielsen has the tickets in order. I therefore have to say to answer these two questions: it is true that we are in the first two lots here, that is what we are deciding on. And then I think that Mr. Holger K. Nielsen remembers from the negotiations that the future lot we do not know when to stay, and we do not know who it will be with; it is the whole concept that lies here. Compared to the price we can already see an example of it in Norway, because the first aircraft they bought were more expensive than those that came in subsequent lot. So we don't know the price of one hundred percent on the planes we buy. We are not buying four aircraft independently, we are buying a portion of aircraft, and I dare not say how many it is, but perhaps 20 aircraft, along with other countries, and therefore the price can depend on it. What is crucial, however, is that we should make sure that we time this in relation to the way in which we build capacity, airports, simulators, and therefore money must also be spent on this type of investment. But we do not know the price, that is quite correct, I would say to Mr Beazley. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205170608	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205170609	I agree. The timing has to be in order, I fully agree with that, but is it responsible that we in the Danish Parliament are dealing with an act in which we do not know the price of what we are going to buy? Because that's what's real about this. The political agreement was made at one time last year, and then a number of price estimates were made on the basis of information provided by the producers, and this, by its very nature, had to be reasonably uncertain, even though it was presented in the media as if it were extremely secure figures. It wasn't. After all, there was agreement, and it has always been my view that in the contract negotiations we will have the actual prices we will have to pay for them, and they could in fact vary from the prices we were given when the political agreement was concluded and which have been the basis for the whole debate. Then it is just strange, I think, that we should deal with the file before we know the actual contract prices that we are going to pay off.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205170704	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205170705	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen's presentation is correct. We do not know the exact prices. There are indications that it will actually be cheaper than we expected; there are some indications of that. And when we cannot decide to say that now we are only giving money to the first four aircraft, and then we see how things are going and then afterwards to the next six aircraft, and so on, it is because we have to make sure that the entire capacity and the building up of education and everything else can keep up with this. So I have to say to Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, that I think it is a wise and safe decision that we are making here; it cannot be any different, because we are involved in the way of buying aircraft where you buy them with others, i.e. in some supply packages as it actually is, and Mr Nielsen knows that. Holger K. Nielsen quite well indeed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205170748	Thank you very much, sir. Henrik Dam Kristensen. The next rapporteur is Mrs Marie Krarup from the Danish People's Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205170801	Thank you. I would like to begin by saying that the Danish People's Party cannot support B-40. B 40 contains two arguments for withdrawing the dossier, and we are in agreement with both arguments, but we are simply making a completely different conclusion on the basis of the two arguments. The first is that less military power must be used for foreign policy. We would very much like to see that. In order to avoid war and avoid military power in foreign policy, one has to be strong and therefore one has to have a strong defence to avoid using one's defence, namely to discourage others from using it and to feel so much security that one actually dares to talk to others. And fighter planes are a vital capacity to have today. That is why we need fighters in order to have a foreign policy that is less marked by military power. The second argument is that the economy is uncertain in the F-35 purchase. We agree with that too. Well, that's it. We now have a lot of information here in the course of the debate and it would be nice to avoid the uncertainties we have been talking about. I just do not think that such a situation can ever be reached when it comes to investments that go far into the future. In addition, we also agree that this is a problem with the National Audit Office's criticism of the calculations underlying the purchase of fighter aircraft. We also believe that they sound very optimistic and that there may therefore be a need for more fighter aircraft, and we would very much like to look at that when we reach the time when we have to decide on further purchases. It has always been our view that it would be better to buy more aircraft, but we could not get that through at the time when we negotiated the combat agreement, but we would like to see the agreement taken up again at a later stage in order to buy further. But I do not think that is what the proposers are interested in. The Danish People's Party cannot support B 40.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205171016	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205171021	Thank you. I would just like to ask the rapporteur what has been the rapporteur's impression throughout the process that has been here about the purchase of fighter aircraft. Does the rapporteur think that it is realistic that what is on the table now, the calculations made by the government, will be kept? Or does the rapporteur think that this could easily be reflected in the need to buy even more fighter planes or that the price could rise on, for example. the lifespan costs of the aircraft?
ParlaMint-DK_20171205171058	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205171059	I think it's as realistic as it can be. Well, that's what you've been fighting to find out and uncover, but you can never be 100 percent sure. This is the case when it comes to something that lies in the future. So you can never get a hundred percent security. However, in my opinion, the information we have come across is so reassuring that we think it is a reasonable degree of uncertainty. Because you can never make the uncertainty go away.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205171133	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205171135	Now I know that the rapporteur has, in fact, been involved in the criticism in the past that there was a great deal of confusion about the economy in this. For example: You can see that the Danish pilots still have to fly much more than they do now. Does the rapporteur think that it is realistic that it will just work painlessly?
ParlaMint-DK_20171205171156	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205171157	As I said before, it is precisely one of the things that we have criticised in the past, where we have been concerned about whether the calculations are too optimistic, and that is also what the Reichsaudit has now pointed out. We therefore believe that it is a good idea to review later in the process whether more aircraft should be purchased.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205171218	Thank you to Mrs Krarup and warm welcome to Mr Krarup. Peter Juel Jensen, Left, Denmark's Liberal Party, and by the way Bornholmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205171232	Thank you for that, President. The security policy landscape is changing, and the role of Denmark's security policy has naturally changed with this development. When our predecessors here in the Assembly Hall during the Cold War decided that Denmark should purchase F-16 aircraft, they did not have any possibility of predicting that the planes would be able to get on their wings in as many different tasks as have been the case. At that time the planes were primarily supposed to assert Danish sovereignty in the air and solve other important domestic tasks during the Cold War. The fact that the aircraft have later participated in operations and interventions in the Balkans, in Afghanistan, Libya and Iraq and air policy in Iceland and in the Baltic States underlines the flexibility of the aircraft. The Danish fighter planes constitute a central capacity in the Danish defence, which can be deployed both in operations with other countries with which we share values, but also be a pillar of our territorial refusal response. Kampfly is an important capacity that both solves important domestic tasks, while at the same time contributing to missions far away from Denmark's borders. The proposers would like to see the file on the purchase of new fighter aircraft drawn. The Left disagrees with that. We need our planes, and the old F-16s can't do much longer. Therefore, there is a need to buy new aircraft.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205171402	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Eva Flyvholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205171406	One of the reasons why we have taken this motion for a resolution down to the Assembly is that we think there is a great deal of confusion about the economy in this. Because we've actually been told a lot of different numbers in this context. I would like to ask the rapporteur how much these new fighter planes are actually going to cost. What's the final bill for this battle airplane adventure?
ParlaMint-DK_20171205171427	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205171429	When it comes to the total bill, the rapporteur asks me to look 30 years into the future. I can't. There's no doubt that this is going to be expensive, and there's no doubt that we've been trying to take into account and be aware that things can get into this very, very difficult calculation to predict. That is why we have set aside a reserve, that is why it is being followed so closely, and that is also why we have the Reichsaudit and state auditors in place. It's to qualify everything on an ongoing basis. But to look 30 years into the future, I can't. This is a big bill. But can the security provided by the aircraft basically be made up of money?
ParlaMint-DK_20171205171516	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205171517	But this is exactly about being able to look 30 years into the future. Because this is going to affect our economy and, incidentally, the economy of defence, I should like to say, extremely far-sightedly forward-looking. So I think it's fair enough to expect that there's just some kind of idea of what this is going to cost, and obviously there isn't. But if everything is so uncertain, I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether it was at least not an idea to say: could we not just sign for some aircraft at a time, so that if, for example, we do not want to do so? In five years' time, can we see that it's going completely off track, so actually has an opportunity to say stop and we're not sitting in the scissors compared to all the planes?
ParlaMint-DK_20171205171557	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205171558	We're buying our planes running in those lot. We also shop in relation to the whole maintenance part, we shop in relation to the simulators. We shop in relation to all other maintenance, which is why things are hard to separate. What I am aware of is that there is a broad political agreement in this Parliament that says that this is a good idea and that it is also a capacity that we must have in the future. The rapporteur is right to say that we cannot stand by and say that every aircraft will cost it and that amount in kroner and ear, but we have a very, very good starting point. Because I actually think that there have been in-depth calculations all the way through. There has been a lot of argument and there has been an incredible amount of quality assurance, which is why I am relatively calm when I say that this is a good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205171650	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205171652	I respect the fact that the rapporteur cannot see 30 years ahead. It is difficult, I admit. But he can see one year ahead, can't he? At least he could try to do that. Because the truth is that the first ten planes will have to be signed next year, isn't that correct? Would it not be reasonable for him to be able to tell us what the price will be on the aircraft to be signed in 2018? It is not 30 years in the future, it is actually a contract to be signed in 2018, and some money has to fall when the contract is signed. I guess it's fair enough that the Folketing is told how much money it's gonna cost, how much it's gonna cost. What's the cost? The Left, then, tends to be very concerned when it comes to things and matters, but not when it comes to airplanes that you seem to be going into it blindfolded.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205171742	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205171743	Oh, I don't think that's fair to say. I remember that the excellent rapporteur for the SF has been involved in much of this process, and he also knows that so much has been said about this that calculations have been made so much. And we've done everything we could. But what the SF rapporteur forgets to say is that this is a development project in which we continuously acquire the aircraft we need for a period of time. We are doing this with other countries, and a great many aircraft have been ordered, and so we cannot say from one year to the next what it will cost. That is why there is this uncertainty, and I therefore believe that the questioner has been given the answer on several occasions that it is impossible to say what each individual aircraft will cost at that time. We have a good idea of what the overall price will be, but as the Minister also said, it can be more expensive and it can be cheaper.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205171838	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205171839	Well, I don't know if you should have two heads to take care of here! You should know what the contract price will be. We have had a lot of calculations, indeed we have, but it has just been calculations and estimates based on information from the manufacturers. What we've been waiting for is the contract. That is what we have been waiting for, and that is what can give a precise indication of the cost of these planes. Everything else has just been calculations which have been excellent but which are not very precise. Now we know there's a contract negotiation going on. I guess it's going on. I don't know, but it might also be possible to find out about it. In any case, a contract will have to be signed next year. What is the price of the contract to be signed? That's what I'm asking.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205171924	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205171926	So I cannot help the questioner there much more than the Minister could, other than to say that this is the total sum that we are asking the Committee on Finance for to be released.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205171937	Thank you, sir. Peter Juel Jensen. There are no more brief comments, and that is why we gladly move on to Mr Vandemeulebroucke's report. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205171949	Thank you very much. Like previous rapporteurs, I can say that the Liberal Alliance fully supports, firmly and firmly, the purchase of the 27 F-35 fighter planes now mentioned several times. It is absolutely vital for Danish security that we have a combat aircraft capacity, both in terms of domestic, national defence and rejection preparedness, and not least in terms of our international commitment to, for example. The fight against IS. In a situation where the Russian air force simulates bomb attacks on Bornholm and naval vessels in the Baltic Sea, and we regularly experience violations of Danish airspace, we must note that the threat from the east has hardly been greater in recent decades. At the same time, we have committed ourselves through NATO to protecting the Baltic countries, which are more directly threatened by the aggressive behaviour of foreign powers. It puts further pressure on the Danish air force, and there should be no uncertainty about the necessary investments that a political majority has already decided to make. The motion for a resolution we are discussing here today from the Enhedslisten, the Alternative and the SF requires the government to scrap the purchase of the new 27 F-35 fighters because there is uncertainty about the economic basis. We are talking about an investment extending over several decades, so of course there will be uncertainty about the economic basis. And I don't know what kind of fortune teller, Enhedslisten, Alternativet og SF think they've hired over at the Treasury. So I have never met her, and if I had, I would probably have asked for the benefit of my own private economy about the development of the dollar exchange rate. The reality is that one can only estimate the financial cost of such a long-term investment. Only fluctuations in exactly the dollar exchange rate make a difference to the overall economy. Perhaps the operating costs will be higher than we expected; perhaps they will be lower. Unless you have a crystal ball, it's all something we don't know with a hundred percent certainty in 30, maybe 40 years or more when the planes are out of service and maybe we need to get rid of them. I know the basic position of the three parties, but it may surprise me if even those parties believe that Denmark should not have a combat aircraft capacity for the next 30-40 years. And, of course, the Liberal Alliance does not support the motion for a resolution with those words.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205172307	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205172312	It is also my impression that the Liberal Alliance in general is reasonably aware of the need for some moderation in public spending, which is why I think it is very, very strange that we are now seeing that the Liberal Alliance is actually ready to simply sign a blank cheque and say that we are now saying that we should have these fighters, and then it must almost cost what it costs. That's what's gonna happen here. I do not expect you to be able to say exactly what is going on for the next 30 years, but frankly, before signing the biggest purchases in Danish history, I think you could at least have a little more idea of what the price is going to be. That is why I would like to hear from the rapporteur: what happens if we do, for example, what happens? In five years' time, is this going to explode completely, that the economy is just going to be overrun extremely? Who's gonna pay for that? And is there any way that, as a state, we can get out of that agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20171205172404	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205172406	After all, it is planned that the costs will be covered by the Ministry of Defence framework, and they will have to do so in any case. Cost whatever it costs, says the questioner. Perhaps that is so much said. Some estimates of this have been presented, and that is what we have to deal with. As I also said in my speech, I do not believe that a fortune teller has been employed in the Ministry of Defence, and I do not have a crystal ball; I do not see 30 years in the future and I see wage trends and trends in the dollar rate and so on. Of course, there are some uncertainties about such a long-term investment.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205172442	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205172444	The Ministry of Defence's economy also comes from the entire economy, so I would say that is not particularly reassuring that it is from where you want to take the money. It's gonna be the same for all of us, no matter where they come from. What I would like to ask the rapporteur is: is it acceptable that there is apparently no possibility of getting out of this if we can see that the economy is exploding? Is it just necessary to keep on poking out for the next 30 years? Is it acceptable for the Liberal Alliance to make such an agreement here?
ParlaMint-DK_20171205172510	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205172512	I feel very comfortable with the calculations that I have been presented with during conciliation meetings. Then I would like to say that it is very important for the Liberal Alliance that Denmark can deliver also in an international context, and there I believe that a combat aircraft capacity is absolutely crucial for Denmark, both in relation to international operations and so, as I mentioned in my speech, in relation to Denmark's national defence and rebuttal capability.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205172538	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205172541	Thank you. I fully agree, as I have also said to others, that of course there are great uncertainties and, of course, we cannot know everything about what is happening over the next 30 years. It is obvious that we cannot do that. But does the rapporteur think it is responsible that the Folketing does not appear to be coming in anymore? I understand that now you get a bag of money, and then the Folketing will be completely disconnected. If adjustments are to be made, if it turns out that prices are different, or if they run out of hand, then the Parliament's Finance Committee is not involved at all, the Folketing is not involved at all, and that is to say, when this act is adopted, the matter is completely disconnected in relation to the Folketing. Is it responsible for such a long-term investment that costs so many billions of dollars?
ParlaMint-DK_20171205172635	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205172637	In relation to being completely disconnected: It must be up to Mr. Holger K. Nielsen's own assessment. I do not think that in this context anyone is completely disconnected. It should then be the three motions for resolutions, which are not part of the decision to buy these fighter aircraft. As I understand it, both the conciliation circle and the Financial Committee are kept regularly informed of the economy of this project, and I certainly do not think that this means that anyone is being coupled by • anything other than perhaps the three parties that are not part of the conciliation circle, and they will then even be informed through the Financial Committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205172719	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205172721	I find this interesting, because it is rather unclear, I think, whether the Committee on Finance should be involved in the future. But we will then look at that when we deal with this resolution, because there is, of course, the possibility that parties other than the conciliation parties may be involved in these discussions. However, in any case, I think that democratically speaking, it is a problem if these very large decisions are really very important decisions, with great consequences, to take place only within the conciliation circle. I am not against having conciliation circles. We ourselves have been in the circle of defence committees, that is not the case, but when there are such major decisions, it is reasonable that the whole of the Folketing should be included and that the public should also be included in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205172806	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205172808	Again, I have to say that the definition of a democratic problem must be an assessment, as Mr. Holger K. Nielsen does for himself. I can't earn that. I certainly do not think that it is a democratic problem that a very broad majority in the Danish Parliament has decided to purchase new fighter planes to safeguard Denmark's national security, the possibility of participating in international operations and in an international response to rejection. I think that is an expression of a fine democratic process.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205172839	Thank you very much, sir. Carsten Bach. And a warm welcome to Mrs Josephine Fock from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205172850	Thank you. With the motion for a resolution tabled by the SF, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative, we propose to withdraw the Financial Committee's document No. 31 on the purchase of fighter planes back. We propose this for a number of reasons. Firstly, because we basically believe that spending in the region of 66 billion is a completely wrong priority for financial resources. kr. On fighter planes over the next 30 years. We think it is 66 billion. kr. that we could spend much better, for example on welfare, better schools, institutions, green transition and entrepreneurship. It's also 66 billion. kr., which we could instead spend on massive investment in humanitarian relief and infrastructure reconstruction of civil society in the conflict zones. We could use the money to strengthen peacekeeping efforts or to increase foreign aid. In this way, we would be much, much better and much more economical in relation to our attitude to solve the security challenges of Denmark and the world, which is what the defence society wants. Instead, we spend billions on fighter planes at a time when virtually all welfare areas are being cut and where the part of Danish development aid that actually goes to development in developing countries has been drastically reduced. We do not agree with that priority in the alternative. It is even more important, however, that we are now in a situation where the Folketing and the government are buying fighter aircraft on an economic basis which is too uncertain and where there is a risk of billions exceeding the budget. As described in the comments to the motion for a resolution, the battle aircraft purchase is the largest single investment in the state to date, and therefore, at least the economic basis should be clear before Denmark signs the contracts. In addition to the economically uncertain basis, there are all the untenable assumptions about how to stretch the operational capacities to the utmost. For example, a precondition for the Ministry's calculations for the fighter planes is that the pilots' working and broadcasting hours are significantly increased, while in future the pilots will have to commit themselves to the defence for many years. This has not been discussed with the pilots, whose trade union on 17 November 2017 in Jyllands-Posten was able to report that they have not been contacted at all. If such pilots can easily cope with a significantly longer working and broadcasting time, why has it not been introduced a long time ago? The unsustainable conditions also apply to annual flight time. This requires that each of the 27 aircraft should be on the wings on an average of 250 hours per year. The National Audit Office criticises the fact that the Ministry has not made it probable how they have arrived at those figures. On the other hand, we have the Netherlands, which only expects their F-35 flights to fly 210 hours a year, and Norway, which only expects their flights to fly 168 hours a year on average. The Minister then pointed out a moment ago that there are four other countries that expect either 250 annual flight hours or more, but the Minister will not publish that information openly and he will not tell which countries it is. I must say that as long as the Ministry of Defence's new information has not been disclosed openly, it is very difficult for us to assess their durability in this specific context, just as experts such as Associate Professor at the Defence College Peter Viggo Jakobsen put forward. It is also very important to note that the National Audit Office states that they have chosen to focus on the figures from Norway and the Netherlands because the Ministry of Defence did the same when the decision was taken last year. So there is a fundamental uncertainty in this billion-dollar investment, which the Ministry of Defence is criticized by the National Audit Office for not having explained well enough, and we obviously agree with that criticism. We believe that there are far too many prerequisites which are at best critical and which are, at worst, unrealistic. It does not hold true that we are making a huge investment like this on that basis, and it does not hold true that we are shrinking and stretching the figures in an unsustainable way, so that in a few years' time, what can be seen by everyone, perhaps in a few years' time, we are faced with new large extra bills which were foreseeable today, but which we may now and here close our eyes to. Those were supposed to be my words.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205173259	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205173304	Thank you to the rapporteur. I just want to ask you a question. After all, I do not have the pleasure of sitting in the Committee on Finance, but the rapporteur does. Is it everyday in the Committee on Finance that you are asked to join such an extremely large billions of dollars, while at the same time there are so many uncertainties associated with the economy in this?
ParlaMint-DK_20171205173325	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205173326	No, it's not. I certainly haven't tried that in my time, but I haven't been sitting there that long either, you might say. But no, it's not everyday.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205173334	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205173336	Is there anything the rapporteur could imagine making sense in this context in order to clarify some of these uncertainties?
ParlaMint-DK_20171205173344	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205173346	Well, as I also explained in my speech, it is clear that we really want to have much, much more openness both about these calculations, but at all about the whole process that has been going on in relation to the fighter planes. That's where we think there's been an extremely closeness, compared to what it really is that's the basis for these numbers and for the whole purchase of these fighter planes.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205173404	Thank you very much, Mrs. Josephine Fock, and welcome to Mr. Martin Lidegaard from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205173415	First of all, I would like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for giving us this opportunity to discuss a subject which is of great importance both for the defence of the empire and indeed for the economy of the empire for a number of years to come. There are many questions related to the acquisition of new fighter aircraft to Denmark, and one can sum them up in three main questions. The first question is: Should Denmark even have new fighter planes? The second question is: which aircraft should Denmark have if necessary? And the third question is: how many of the planes does it make sense to buy? In the Radical Left, we are of the opinion that Denmark must have a defence, also an effective defence, and that is why we do not believe that the discussion is really about whether Denmark should have fighter planes or not, because we believe that this is necessary for a modern defence, especially a defence that we would like to see can also contribute outside our latitudes and, of course, also in order to fulfil our commitments in NATO. Although we are in agreement, for example. Mrs Josephine Fock in saying that it is an awful lot of money to spend it I shall come back to the debate and we do not think that you can do without fighter aircraft in a modern defence if you want to continue membership of NATO, and we do. The next question is whether these are the right aircraft, the right type of aircraft we have here. It has to be said that an incredibly thorough preparatory work has been carried out, and I would like to express it in such a way that if the F-35 lives up to what they promise, and as it is the opinion of the Combat Flights Office they can live up to, there is no doubt that F-35 is the right choice and has the right profile, even in terms of being future-proof to the tasks that exist. Having said that, however, it is also quite obvious to everyone, and it has emerged not only from the Minister's speech today, but also from the agreement we have made, that there are uncertainties associated with that choice, and it is, of course, uncertainties that we have to look into and deal with. That brings me to the third question, namely the number of aircraft. And I shall not hide the fact that if the Radical Left had had 90 seats in the Folketing, it would probably have become fewer fighters than what is in the present agreement, but in return we have had the influence on the compromise that was made, namely that we both ensure that if these uncertainties fall out negatively, the difference that might become economic will be taken over the defence budget, but also that we take a status when the 21 aircraft are signed under contract, and in the conciliation circle look into each other's eyes and ask ourselves whether they live up to both the budget, the timetable, the capacity, and whether there is a chance to put the brakes on the last six, if that is what we think is right. We think that is important and weighty fingerprints that we can vouch for. But of course we wouldn't have made this deal if we thought it would be necessary. We believe, in fact, that we, I had just said in exceptional circumstances, in relation to what we have seen in the past, among other things. IC4 trains, etc., this time opting to enter the production process so late that a great many of the child diseases that aircraft are openly struggling with today, and which make other countries that have bought in earlier, pay something for it, we shall avoid. And with regard to the criticisms that have been made both from the Danish and the American Reichsaudits, for example. In relation to the number of flight hours, we feel confirmed that, without being perceived as completely naive, we dare to believe that the number of flight hours to be delivered can be delivered when we get there. You are actually quite close already in the current production series, and ours is in the future. But let me just say frankly that if it turns out that our hopes do not live up to expectations, we will, of course, from the position we have in the conciliation circle, fight to ensure that it does not cost Danish taxpayers any more and that, if so, we reduce the number of total aircraft. At some point, a decision has to be made, even when it is difficult to choose, and, overall, we now feel that we can measure up to this. There is an uncertainty, yes, but one can also say that if we do not make this choice now, it will simply be impossible to get the planes that are needed for Denmark to have a robust defence in both 2020, 2021, 2022, 2023, 2024, 2025 and 2026 and, overall, we consider that we can vouch for this, and that is why we will not support the motion for a resolution that has been tabled here, but will, of course, stick to the conciliation that we are part of.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205173930	Thank you. There are a few brief comments and the first is from Mrs Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205173935	Thank you. I'd like to start by commenting on this. I think it is perhaps a little bit fresh to say that F-35 is part of a defensive defence, because it is a very offensive bomber, which is primarily bought, so that you have the same plane as the Americans when you go into international missions. However, what I really want to ask the rapporteur is exactly what is going on with the economy. After all, I note that the Radicals have asked for the last six aircraft to be delayed in order to have some kind of emergency brake in relation to the economy. That's great. But what I am thinking is whether it would not make good sense in the current situation to say: could we not put the brake on a little sooner? Because as the case is now, you have to buy 21 planes, and that is really, really a lot of money. Could it not make sense to say that we are entering into contracts for the first ones, for example? Six aircraft, as has been done in Norway, and then the Committee on Finance has to decide again what the situation is. Then you actually have the opportunity to back out if these massive problems we see now continue.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205174041	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205174042	I understand the question. The reason why we could not run it any longer in the conciliation circle is that since we have contracted, that is to say, signed, on the first fighter planes until we actually have them and can therefore test them and test them and make sure that they are as they should be and at the price they should have, there are a few years to go. And that is why, as I understand it, we cannot really reach, I had almost said, to wait to take a position on more than six aircraft. But I would also like to say that, if it turns out, after we have bought the first six aircraft, there is a great scandal in the programme, and anyone can see that the aircraft delivered, for example. to some of the other countries, do not live up to what we had expected, then of course we will clearly suggest that we look at it again. That is not my expectation, because, as I have said, the production series now in production, according to what we have been told, are in much better condition and are much more in line with all the expectations that we have also placed on them, including the number of flight hours. However, even if we have not written it into the settlement, we will be very aware that the aircraft and also the first six are delivering what they have to do, and we will, of course, also shout loudly if it turns out that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205174202	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205174203	Yes, I hope that the rapporteur will stand firm and shout loudly about that. I fear it will be very relevant, because I think there will be a lot of problems. I would like to know what the overall cost of this combat aircraft purchase will be for society.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205174222	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205174223	Well, I certainly expect that it will remain within the limits of the amounts that the Secretary of Defense has announced, which are our basis for decision, and that is, of course, a total of approx. 66 billion kr., if we also take maintenance and operation with us for really, very many years. It's a staggering amount. Of course, it also covers a number of fighter planes for a really, really long period of time, but that's my best expectation. When we have put the two, if I may say so, buffers into the conciliation text, namely that if it turns out that the budget is running, it is within the defence itself that you have to solve this and that you have the opportunity to cancel the last six aircraft, if we agree on it in the conciliation circle, then of course it is to wear both belts and belts. But my expectation is that this will last. That is the best offer of the Ministry of Defense, and that is why it is also what we need to take as a basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205174314	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205174315	Thank you. The rapporteur does not think it is a little strange that we should come up with an act here and ask for more than 16 billion. kr., which is to be used up to 2027, without you actually knowing what the price of what to buy is? Because you don't. You don't know the contract price, which has to be signed here in 2018. I would like to know whether the radical rapporteur would ask that the contract price should at least be brought up in the defence circle. When I ask, it is because a large number of decisions have been proposed up to 2027. The first delivery is here next year, and then there are some deliveries. Then there will be a stop, I understand, before the last six planes. I guess it's gonna be around 2022 or so, I guess you get that stop. But until then it must be understood that the Folketing is completely disconnected and that perhaps even the conciliation circle is not connected. The defence just gets a bag of money that you need to buy some things for, without there being control over what you actually buy and whether the quality is right. Isn't that right? And is that safe?
ParlaMint-DK_20171205174439	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205174440	As I also think the Minister for Defence mentioned in his speech, every year the Parliament's Finance Committee will be given a status which explains in detail how the development of the programme goes, what the contract prices are expected to be or have become, and how to assess it in the future. So it is not the case that the Folketing does not gain insight into what is going on in the programme. But what is, and that separates, one might say, a battle aircraft purchase from virtually all material purchases in the defence and elsewhere in Danish society, is that here Denmark is part of a programme together with a lot of other countries, where we also contribute to the cost of development, and where the final contract price does not therefore take place in such a traditional tender, where you like to have 27 fighter planes, and look at who can deliver the right thing, but where we choose to go into a programme. The final contract price will, moreover, depend on how strict the U.S. National Audit is and how much President Trump is pushing American prices, and I would like to tell you how much the Danish Parliament is, of course, watching that this is as it should be. Then the final contract price will be drawn up, depending on how the production prices are on equipment, and depending on what the raw materials cost at the time when Denmark buys. Is that fair? Yeah, at least that's how you buy fighter planes. Is that satisfactory? It never is. You'd want to know a hundred percent of the ear what the cost is gonna be. But on the other hand, I cannot see a better alternative than to make the estimate we have made and ensure that if it swings out, it is the defense itself that is accountable, which increases the motivation for them to keep a close eye on it. And if it goes all the way out, we can get fewer fighters.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205174628	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205174629	Yes, there are such a number of prerequisites for such a contract, I agree. This can be described as a little abstract, as the rapporteur does. But in concrete terms, a contract will have to be signed next year. So it is very concrete. And there you have to know what the price is of the things you have to buy and what the conditions are. Does the rapporteur know about this at this stage? And does he think it is reasonable for us here in the Folketing to deal with an act without even knowing what the contract price is on the first ten aircraft we are going to buy?
ParlaMint-DK_20171205174708	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205174709	If we now imagined that there would be a contract price that would run completely away from the act that has been put forward now, then I think that Mr. Holger K. Nielsen will agree with me that it will hardly go quietly in Denmark. It will be the case that if suddenly the price was 25, 50 or 100 per cent. or, for that matter, 10%. higher because it's large amounts we're talking about here. Of course it would come out. I don't expect that. The fact is that it is difficult to know with one hundred percent certainty what the price will be when you are not dealing with a traditional supply but are part of the development of the program itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205174750	Thank you, sir. Martin Lidegaard, and welcome to Mr. Holger K. Nielsen from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205174807	Unlike my co-sponsors, we actually believe that fighter aircraft are needed in the Danish defence and that therefore there is also a need to buy new fighter aircraft. The old F-16s cannot do much longer, and it is still necessary to replace them with new aircraft. We want an aircraft capacity, and I think we should have that, among other things. in order to have a response and to be able to defend the Danish territory. That is why I agree with the idea that we should have airplanes. We disagreed about how many planes we were going to have and how much money we were going to spend on it, i.e. how much of the defence resources were going to be spent on the purchase of these planes. That disagreement was, in fact, very real, and it meant that we had to leave the defence settlement at that time. We were sorry about that, but that's the way it was. But I have to say that I was a little surprised when I read the action that came and I think that the majority is going on a risky trip here. I sense that they are entering the biggest hardware purchases of the century with blindfolds. I think we have to say this when it comes to the Danish Parliament's handling of this. The parliament doesn't know how much it costs. What you're giving with this act is a big bag of money, well over 16.6 billion. kr., which the defense needs up to 2027. But what is going to happen in the intervening period, we do not know anything about. Well, we know that you have to buy those planes, but whether they are becoming more expensive or cheaper, whether there are problems or not, whether there is to be compensation for some things, etc., the Folketing does not seem to be involved. This can be done independently in the defence of that act. I have to say that I think it is to give a very, very great power to the Danish defence. I know it's decent people who sit in the defense circle and that they will of course be aware of how this project is going. But I also know that it sometimes takes a lot of time to get all the information from the defence management.I myself have been sitting there for several years and that, as far as I can assess it, it is not put up for very much openness as to how the process will be followed. But it will be a discussion that the defence committee must take with itself and take with the defence, and I shall not interfere with that here. What I think is going to be a problem is that I also think the public has a right to be involved in the various considerations that exist. I think the Folketing as a whole has the right to be involved in the various considerations that exist. And I'm not saying that, just because I'm out of the line of defense now all of a sudden. I say this because it is such an important decision and such a large decision that I do not think it is enough that it is only the defence committee that is discussing it. In other words, I would recommend it very much, but perhaps we can come back to the fact that we have some procedures for constantly evaluating these matters in the defence committee and that we have a procedure for informing the Committee on Finance. I understand that there will be an annual briefing but, as I understand it, it will be very general. Will it be possible to go in and ask questions about it, etc.? I really think that there is reason to consider how the public gets in and that, in addition to that, the comments made by the Reichsaudit have also been taken seriously. The working hours of the pilots and these synergy effects, which are a very important prerequisite for the financial calculations in this and the Reichsaudit, question the calculations in other words that we keep an eye on this. So I have to say that I do not think that the democratic treatment of this proposal is sound. It is not satisfactory, and so we would like the act to be withdrawn. Now we have to have it in committee, and I would very much urge that the majority not just run through this without it being properly treated. There are a large number of questions we need to answer, and it will be the only opportunity to discuss this big purchase as a whole. And there I very much hope that we do not, like, block the treatment because this has to be done quickly and that we have a proper, democratic treatment of this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205175349	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Henrik Dam Kristensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205175353	Thank you, sir. Holger K. Nielsen. It is true, as I understand it, that in relation to the proposers here, there is a difference between the desire for the capacity of combat aircraft and that Mr. Holger K. Nielsen. I have every respect for that, and that is why it leaves two questions with me. 1: How many planes do Mr. If so, does K. Nielsen have to have? And 2: What kind of plane does Mr. Holger K. Nielsen to buy?
ParlaMint-DK_20171205175426	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205175427	When it was negotiated, we proposed 21 planes based on what we could see. Compared to the type selection, I find it a little harder to answer it. In other words, we would like a slightly less ambitious plane than the F-35, but of course we are also influenced by the economic arguments that were in relation to the different types of aircraft. So I would very much hate to answer that here... what kind of aircraft we want. We had to take a closer look at the economy of the various types of aircraft, because there was actually a very great deal of discussion after the decision had been taken to take F-35, in which, as I know, Boeing, for example, brought legal proceedings against the state because it did not take the Boeing aircraft or, at least, because it used wrong assumptions which they believe have damaged Boeing. And there was a long discussion about the Super Hornet and its possibilities in relation to the F-35 and the different calculations there are. So we went through it very, very thoroughly. I'd say we did. However, in the calculations there were, I also think there was some bias and we would have liked to have carried out some new analyses, also in relation to mission types other than those included in the analysis made by the Kampfly Office. But we proposed 21 planes and without me rejecting the F-35 as the one you had to choose.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205175606	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205175606-2	Now Mr. Holger K. Nielsen also took part in the very last meeting and was therefore with us all the way through, and so I would like to ask Mr Beazley. Holger K. Nielsen: If Mr. Holger K. Nielsen had to buy 21 planes, no matter what type it might be, Mr. Holger K. Nielsen then also get into some uncertainties? Mr. Holger K. Nielsen should not stand on the platform if he had been involved in buying 21 aircraft, and say: There are probably some uncertainties here where we have to rely on that which, among other things. The experts in the Department of Defense recommend us?
ParlaMint-DK_20171205175646	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205175647	Yes, but I haven't denied that there are uncertainties in this. That is also why I have always focused on the first lots of aircraft, that is, because I think there is too much uncertainty about the first trance to buy, or rather, you should be able to answer: what is the price of the first ten aircraft to be bought? I think it is very sensible, in that Lockheed Martin produces in different pools or lots, or whatever it is called, that you take them separately and ask what the price is on it and the pool. Because the price changes all the time, we know that it does. And you really have the opportunity to take it up every time a new contract has to be negotiated. And that's where I'm surprised the Folketing doesn't come in, and the conciliation circle doesn't seem to do it either. I mean, why can't we constantly discuss the various contracts that are being made? Because the price can actually change, even in the downward direction. This has proved to be the case, and I am well aware of that. So the uncertainties are there, but what I am arresting in this debate is not the uncertainties, in terms of looking at 10 years or 30 years in the future, because of course the uncertainty is there, but as far as next year 2018 is concerned. Why can we not get some more precise figures on: What should we sign in 2018? And could we not just, if I may say so, get an allocation in the Committee on Finance for the first contracts instead of having to have them all?
ParlaMint-DK_20171205175815	Thank you, sir. Holger K. Nielsen. There are no more brief comments. And I would like to extend a warm welcome to Mr. Rasmus Jarlov of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205175831	Thank you. And thank you to the Enhedslisten for having tabled this motion for a resolution which we cannot support and intend to vote against. We believe that there is a need for fighter aircraft in Denmark that a fleet of fighter aircraft is essential for our defence. It is a very important weapon and without fighter planes we cannot defend our country. The fighter planes we have today, called F-16, are worn out, and they can't hold any longer. Even with this decision that we have made, we will have to buy F-35 aircraft, a gap of a number of years in which our fighter aircraft cannot operate, at least only at a very limited level. That is why it is urgent to buy the new fighter aircraft and we cannot postpone that resolution any longer, as we would if we voted through this resolution. In fact, we agree with much of the criticism of the decision-making basis for the purchase of fighter aircraft. Conservatives did not vote in the resolution on the purchase of F-35 aircraft last year, and we did not do so for one crucial reason, and that was that we were concerned about the defence economy. When we buy the F-35s, it is estimated that the total cost will be 57 billion. kr. over the life of the planes. It is, of course, a very, very large amount, but it is also distributed over 30-40 years. If you took other expenses, for example. The SU, over 30-40 years old, would of course also have a very, very large number. You have to remember that when you talk about these fighter planes, that is, it's over a very long period of time, and that the price of having fighter planes is about 1.5-2 billion. kr. a year. We think it is worth the money, but it is a very large amount, and when you put such a large bill on the table of the defence without adding any more money, it causes great financial difficulties for the defence. It was the case that the entire material budget for defence was seized up to 2027, and any increase would mean that there would be huge savings in the army, the Navy or the Home Guard, in other words, in order to afford the fighters. This also meant that it was not possible to buy new equipment beyond what had already been decided for the next 10 years. And we did not think that this was a reasonable situation to put the defence in, which is why we could not be involved in the decision when it was taken 11⁄2 years ago. Since then, there has been a new government, and the Conservatives have joined in the claim that there have been parliamentary elections, but I do not think there has been. At any rate, there has been a change in the fact that a new government base has now been created, and we are currently negotiating a new defence settlement in which we intend to add more funds to defence. In this situation, we can support the purchase of the fighter aircraft. Now it will not be the case that we cannot buy new equipment; it will not be the case that the army and the Navy will be starved in the future. So we now feel that we have an acceptable situation where we can support the purchase of fighter aircraft. There are other parts of the criticism that have been raised of the basis for the decision, with which we can agree. We basically take the view that as correct, fair and realistic assessments should be given to the Folketing as possible when decisions are taken. It is not certain that this has quite been the case in every detail about the purchase of the fighter aircraft. We ourselves criticized parts of the decision-making base when the decision was taken, namely the conditions under which fighter aircraft were purchased. It was not the case that incorrect information was given to the Folketing, but some assumptions were made which were very optimistic. It's okay to be optimistic, but it must also be realistic. We are not sure that it is realistic that we can get our pilots to stay twice as long in the air force as they are today, while at the same time encouraging a deterioration in their working conditions, where they must be deployed 8 months a year and the last 4 months where they are in Denmark, must be able to work 48 hours a week or more if there are vacant posts, which is more often the case. I'm just saying that to address a single premise. Then there was the assumption of the number of flight hours. Can we get more flying hours out of our planes than we can in other countries? There is probably not much reason to assume that, which is why we believe that the conditions underlying the decision-making framework submitted to Parliament and voted through have been very optimistic. This made many people call the Conservatives troublesome and conflict-seeking and thought we were annoying, and I myself received a lot of criticism for having made that criticism last year. Here a few months ago, the National Audit Office made exactly the same criticism, and now it is no longer just annoying and stupid, but now it is considered to be very thoroughly worked out facts. And the National Audit Office fully agrees with the criticism made by the Conservatives. I think that the debate in this Chamber has been a little mistaken, because it is not about whether there is any uncertainty about a project, because it is always there. It is about giving as realistic assessments as possible, even when there is uncertainty. We must stand firm on this, even when it comes to decisions that we support. However, this does not change the fact that it is still sensible to acquire the fighter aircraft. This means that Denmark may not get quite the capacity that one might want and as it was presented in the decision-making basis. When we buy just 27 fighter planes, we don't get as much combat power as we got when we bought 77 F-16 planes originally. We do not get as many flying hours in the air, we do not get as much presence in the airspace with 27 planes as we have with the 77 F-16s. That is obvious, and so is when we examine the conditions. But that does not change the fact that it is better to get 27 aircraft than it is to get no aircraft, and that is why we continue to support the resolution. We might have thought more fighter planes would come. We might well have thought that there was generally a larger budget in defence, so we could afford it. But, of course, when we cannot get support for even more money, we support the fact that we are adding the funds to which we can be supported and buying the aircraft that we can now get. That is why we must vote against the Enhedslisten resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205180442	Thank you. The first brief remark is from Mrs Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205180447	I am, of course, sorry that Conservatives will not support the proposal, but I have, as such, been very pleased with the criticism made by the rapporteur that this basis of decision was simply too optimistic, because it is very, very important for the democratic debate that we bring these things to light. I would therefore also like to ask the rapporteur whether it is the rapporteur's view that this is still a problem. Now the National Audit Office has made a criticism, the Ministry of Defence has come back with an answer, and I would say that that answer has not so much reassured me. I still think that there are major problems with this basis assuming some things that I do not think will be fulfilled and that it will therefore be much, much more expensive with these fighters. How does the chairman feel about this situation now?
ParlaMint-DK_20171205180540	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205180542	I am the rapporteur, not the chairman, but I do not agree with that. I believe that the calculations of costs that lie now are the most realistic offer. And there has been a slight increase over the time when the decision was taken, so we are now up to a total cost of 57 billion. kr. instead of 56 billion. kr. It is within what must be acceptable in managing such a large and high-tech project as this. What I was talking about before with uncertainty about flying hours and how much capacity we get doesn't affect the cost of the planes. It affects how many flight hours we can expect these planes to deliver, i.e. how many hours in the air these F-35 planes can produce. But it has nothing to do with the cost. In terms of costs, I feel that we have the most realistic idea of what they will be. I'm not gonna be able to tell you if it's gonna end like that. There is great uncertainty, as several others have pointed out, but I feel that we have realistic estimates of what the costs will be. At any rate, no one has been able to point out to me some things that I have said seem unrealistic.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205180656	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205180657	But if the result is to be achieved, it can be said that the aircraft cannot fly as much as the government says they can, as I am still hearing from the rapporteur, namely that it is probably not possible to achieve such a capacity there, then I suppose the reality is that a party, such as the United States, is also a party. Conservatives can come and say that then we will have to have more planes, and then it will be much more expensive. In other words, it is not yet a problem that there is no proper framework, in other words that the conditions are not right, that you have been so optimistic and that you, for example, have been so optimistic. still away is so optimistic about how much the planes will be able to fly?
ParlaMint-DK_20171205180735	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205180736	Well, I promise that in the future too, I will say that we must have many more planes. Whether the conditions are realistic or not, it is our view that we should have had more aircraft, but of course not for money that we do not have. The funds needed to buy the number of aircraft we decide must be set aside. That's basically the most important thing. We cannot be familiar with the defence to buy some aircraft if we do not allocate money to it. But I do not think I will succeed in the conciliation circle, where there are also those parties, I believe, after conciliation, to demand that we then add more funds to buy more aircraft. I simply do not think there will be a majority in favour of this, unfortunately. But if it were for Conservatives, of course we would.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205180812	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Jarlov. And then we have reached the rapporteur for the proposers, and that is Mrs Eva Flyvholm from the Enhedslisten, unless the minister wants to say something.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205180833	Thank you. Thank you for the debate so far. If you've read the newspaper in the last few days, you've probably also come across the story of how the residents of Skrydstrup, where the F-35s are supposed to have base, risk having to live in a noise hell with noise from fighter aircraft engines in the garden, in the living room and in the bedroom, unless of course they choose to move from their homes, which will probably be really, really hard to sell if the neighbour is Denmark's new fighter plane, F-35. This is just the last of the series of problems that have been plagued for years by the scandalous purchase of new fighter planes for billions of tax dollars. After all, we have gathered here today in the Parliamentary Chamber because we, the Enhedslisten, the Socialist People's Party and the Alternative, have chosen to pull the brake on the purchase of new fighter aircraft. We simply think that the parties that want to buy new aircraft owe it to them to come to the platform and explain to the public why they think it is a good idea to spend billions on this deeply critical arms purchase. When we have pulled the emergency brake, it is also due to the fact that there is a great deal of uncertainty about the economy and the calculations underlying it. Even for those parties that want to buy fighter planes, i.e. the Social Democracy, the Radical Left, the Conservatives, the Liberal Alliance and the Danish People's Party, it must surely be a prerequisite that the economy is managed. I think I've been confirmed today that there isn't. Several parties are still saying that they still do not believe in the calculations underlying the purchase. And it has also become quite clear that we cannot guarantee what prices will be; it has become very clear that we will not be able to get out of contracts afterwards if problems arise. So the battle aircraft purchase is the biggest public procurement in Danish history. There are many, many billions at stake, and it should simply call for something more cautious than what we are seeing here. I almost get the impression that we are dealing with a bunch of politicians who tighten their eyeband quite thoroughly before they push the bobsled over the edge and hope for the best, although it is, to put it mildly, unlikely that this is going to go well. I would say that, in general terms, it can be a little sweet to be an optimistic daredevil, but I do not think it is particularly charming or impressive to risk our economy in a gun lottery. It is simply deeply irresponsible and unreasonable and I would like it to be stopped now. A very serious criticism has been made by the National Audit Office against the government's decision-making basis. They say, among other things, that the calculations are very optimistic and that the conditions are uncertain. After all, when the National Audit Office is aware of this, it is precisely because the purchase of fighter aircraft is such a socio-economic matter that it needs to be managed. So when the Reichsaudit says no, you really have to listen to it. And I just have to say that the answer the Secretary of Defense has given so far does not seem to give us any reason to think that much has improved on it or that there is nothing to worry about. At the same time, we have also seen that the American National Audit Office has warned countless times that there are still major problems with the development of the F-35 combat aircraft and that the economy is going to go away. It is lately, for example. it will take over six months every time the F-35 fighter goes to the United States and repairs. When we see it in the context of the fact that all buttons have already been screwed to make the purchase of the fighter aircraft sound better and cheaper than the reality is likely to be, then that is deeply worrying. There is something we have also talked about today, for example. provided that the pilots can fly much more than they can now, and it is also provided that the aircraft can fly many more hours than it can elsewhere. A year ago, I asked the Secretary of Defense whether money should not be spent on noise protection, as in Norway. At that time, the Secretary of Defense denied that there would be problems. Now we can see that it is completely mad and that lots of residents are being hit and that more money needs to be spent. I really think this is very symptomatic of what it has been like all the way, namely that many of the very critical information here has simply not come forward until after the decision has been taken. We have also been told different prices on the fighter planes. First, the government said 56.4 billion. kr., but it has turned out that it was in real terms, and now we can see that if you take for example. In view of the trend in prices and wages, it is close to 66 billion. kr. That's crazy money. I have also suggested several times that the purchase should be divided into portions, for example. Four or six fighters at a time, as they have done in Norway, in order to ensure that they do not drift away from the economy. It would at least ensure that we did not burn our fingers quite as much if the price of the first batch were to run out of control. Unfortunately, however, neither will one. And I really would have liked us to have had the courtesy of the debate here today, that is to say that it was something we could consider looking at. I think it is completely irresponsible to prepare to sign when it is still so unclear whether the government's financial basis is in order and because it will be so difficult to get out once the contracts are signed. There's a completely real danger that this is gonna be the new IC4 scandal... just even wilder. So my prayer to you who are rapporteurs here is really: Beat cold water in your blood. Take it a little bit at a time and get the economy under control before the signature is signed. It is simply not fair, I think, to ignore all warnings. It is not fair that an optimistic economic basis has been created to get this motion for a resolution passed and to get it through. It is not right that we, as Members of Parliament, should not be able to count on the information we receive from the Minister. This is so important a matter, not only because of the economy, but above all because the purchase of the new F-35 fighters is about Denmark's political and military alliance with the United States. This is the direction of Denmark's future foreign policy. And I think we owe it to ourselves to ask: Do we really want Denmark to engage in more hopeless wars of aggression? Is it reasonable that taxpayers should pay more than 66 billion? kr. for a sad alliance with Donald Trump and the American arms industry? For us in the Enhedslisten, that is a clear no. We don't want those fighters! We want a peaceful foreign policy and we would rather spend 66 billion. kr. on peace and prosperity. Finally, I just want to say that I have been following this battle aircraft purchase since 2009, and I have really missed the fundamental discussion of Denmark's defence and foreign policy, which I think should be decisive before taking this decision. I have missed a debate on whether it is at all reasonable to spend so much money on fighter planes when saving everywhere else. And right now, in the last crucial weeks, I therefore lack caution and due diligence in order to avoid this battle airplane scandal becoming even more expensive. I very much hope that each of you will bear in mind that the battle aircraft purchase is your responsibility, and remember that there is no majority of the population for this battle aircraft purchase. Remember that now you have been warned that there are still major problems with the economic basis, but that there is therefore an opportunity to do something about it and to wait to sign it. As long as the Committee on Finance has not given its undertaking that this can be carried on, the contracts have not been signed. So I really hope that you will still consider doing the right thing, namely to withdraw the record. Even for those parties that so want fighters, it should surely be the case that the economy must be linked and that they can face the people.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205181632	Thank you to Mrs Eva Flyvholm. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Defence Committee. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171205181650	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting, apart from thanking everyone for today's work in the service of the people's government. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 6 December 2017 at 6 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
