ParlaMint-DK_20171110100018	The meeting is open. From members of the Folketing Hans Christian Schmidt and Karsten Hønge, who have been on leave, I have received notification that they can again meet in Tinget from 11 November 2017. Hans Christian Thonings and Carl Valentin's duties as temporary members of the Folketing shall cease to apply from that date. Today there are the following reviews: Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen (S) and Jesper Petersen (S): Motion for a resolution No. B 29 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on working for a bottom below corporate tax in the EU). Søren Egge Rasmussen (EL), Carolina Magdalene Maier (ALT), Ida Auken (RV) and Jacob Mark (SF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 30 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the creation of a conversion pool to promote the operation of organic and plant-based diets in public kitchens). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20171110100122	The debate is open. Sir. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20171110100139	After the Soviet Union defeated the uprising in Hungary in 1956, 200,000 of its citizens fled to neighbouring Yugoslavia and Austria, where many families were waiting, among others. at the major railway station in Vienna. Where would they seek protection? At home Hansen's Social Democratic Government decided to send a H. C. train to the many refugees. At the Austrian railway station it was announced that there was a Danish train coming, and over the loudspeaker system it was told how the weather was in Denmark and that there was room for almost 1,000 refugees. 900 Hungarians accepted the offer and drove north in Europe in the middle of the night in winter. When the train reached Padborg, the windows were knocked to the domes, and the Danes were ready with coffee and Danish bread. Against the same background, a broad circle of Danish organisations founded Danish Refugee Aid. Few of us today think about the fact that we have a Hungarian minority in Denmark. We never talk about the integration challenges with the Hungarian refugees. None of us cares about their crime rate or their employment rate, and there is a very good reason for this. The Hungarian refugees have become a well-functioning part of Danish society. Yeah, I guess you can't even call them part of Danish society. They are When my own father fled here about 15 years later, relatively few had continued to come to Denmark. The Danish authorities went rather uncomplicated to the task. The newly arrived asylum seekers were accommodated in Copenhagen hotels, and a simple procedure gave a few hundred residence permits each year, but under the Aliens Act of 1983 the number of asylum seekers exploded in Denmark. It was no longer possible to accommodate people in hotels. Real asylum centres had to be set up and the authorities came under ever-increasing pressure. Since then, Danish governments have tried to enable the authorities to deal with ever more and increasingly complex asylum applications. Today, hundreds of public employees work every day to deal with what is now to be regarded as a real migration of people. Today coffee and pastry and good will are not enough. Today's bill to establish a national ID centre must try to deal with the reality that it is becoming increasingly complex to separate people who have protection needs and people who migrate without a need for protection. The increasingly organized trafficking industry is also becoming better at producing false documents, just as many foreigners have been instructed to tell which stories they are most likely to be able to get refugee status. That is why a national ID centre is a good idea, which Social Democracy can of course support. It is sad that the refugee situation no longer consists of just 200,000 Hungarians to be repopulated in neighbouring countries within the same cultural circle, and it is sad that millions of people have a need for protection, and at least as sad that even more people are seeking away from their home countries on migration away from poverty and insecurity. However, it only makes it more necessary for the Folketing to ensure that the authorities have the tools to separate refugees from migrants, and that is why we can support the bill that is here.
ParlaMint-DK_20171110100444	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Jep Jakobsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171110100452	Thank you. We have seen many stories about asylum seekers and immigrants who have had an extremely difficult time remembering who they were, how old they were, which city or even which country they came from, so incredible amnesia that one would almost think that they were conscious lies for the purpose of securing residence in Denmark on a fraudulent basis. If you pursue that idea, you could be led to believe that the documents presented by these people may not be genuine or, if they are genuine, may not be their own. That is why we have a bill, which is the implementation of the 2017 Finance Law Agreement, to set up an expert-level ID centre, National ID centre, to help the authorities determine the real identity of people, so that we ensure that the people who come to Denmark are now also the people they pretend to be. And of course we can wholeheartedly support this in the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171110100557	Thank you. There are no brief comments. The next one is sir. Marcus Knuth, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171110100613	This is by no means the first time that we have been in this Chamber to discuss a legislative proposal which, in one way or another, concerns the definition of the identity of foreigners. Not long ago, we discussed the L 40's law of lying, as the media call it, where we were also aware that we unfortunately have problems with, among other things. asylum seekers who come to Denmark and who do not always speak the truth about their identity. That is why we in the Left believe that this new centre, the National ID centre, is a very, very important contribution to managing the identity of foreigners. I take note of the fact that a documentary laboratory is being set up under the National ID centre to examine the validity of all types of documents relating to the identity of a foreigner. I am also sensitive to the fact that the National ID centre should help to ensure that the authorities have the necessary skills in the field of ID, among other things. competences that we learn from the Norwegian ID centre, which has been a great success. And I take note of the fact that the National ID centre, in cooperation with the National Police Department, is to collect, process and disseminate relevant knowledge about trends and methods of document counterfeiting and anti-personnel counterfeiting. All of this and a number of other points respond to the need that we in the Left believe is needed to strengthen the security and control efforts in the field of foreigners, so we have a handle on who comes into Denmark. For the sake of good order, it has to be said that the authorities are, of course, already allocating large amounts of resources to the monitoring effort and that a great deal of work is being done out there, but we need to have further organised and consolidated efforts. National ID center will make sure of that. National ID centre will also help the authorities to establish the identity of a foreigner early in the process, but even more importantly it may be that it will have a preventive effect, so that some of those who are perhaps now looking up through Europe to see where they are going to seek asylum, in other words to look up through Europe with false papers, think: Well then we will probably not seek asylum in Denmark, because there will probably be my false papers discovered. That is why we in the Left think this is a very good proposal. We support it. I welcome the Conservative People's Party and say that they also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171110100829	Thank you. There are no brief comments. The next is Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171110100837	It goes without saying that no one should be able to obtain a residence permit in Denmark using forged documents. Fortunately, Denmark is a constitutional state in which it is the case that if we need our protection and are entitled to our protection, we do not need false papers at all. And if, within the framework of the rule of law, we become better at distinguishing between false and genuine documents, then it also makes us better at assessing who is entitled to and needs protection and who is not. That is why it is also very good, as a starting point, that the authorities should be better able to distinguish between genuine and false documents. It is not to prevent anyone from obtaining asylum that needs it and is entitled to it, but to reduce the number of people seeking asylum without being at risk in their country of origin. In this way, we can concentrate our energies on those who really need protection. And unfortunately, there are a lot of people who do. Among the consultation responses received, we have in the Enhedslisten attached ourselves in particular to the response from the Institute for Human Rights. The Foundation points out that this bill gives the authorities the power to derogate from the rules of the Personal Data Act on the exchange of information in a way that leaves a very large discretion to the individual authority. Like the Institute, we would like the comments to clarify more clearly when the authorities can pass on personal information to the National ID centre. The Institute of Human Rights also points out that there are no deadlines in the proposed rules on when the National ID centre is required to delete sensitive personal data. According to the bill, the National ID centre must be independent, and that is what we interpret in such a way that, for example, there is no need for it to be independent. Neither the government nor a minister will be able to put pressure on the centre to give a clear and restrictive line to which documents are accepted as authentic. We agree with the Institute for Human Rights that it would have been a stronger signal of independence if the Centre were created by a separate law and not by a proposal to amend the Aliens Act. We are, as a starting point, in favour of this proposal and have a few questions on the basis of the comments made by the Institute for Human Rights in the hearings which we will be putting forward in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20171110101109	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Christina Egelund, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171110101117	Thank you. The proposal we are discussing here will create a new centre, the National ID centre, which is responsible for ensuring the authenticity of the information obtained by the authorities in connection with inter alia: asylum procedures. The immigration of recent years has strengthened the need to ensure that the treatment of applications by foreigners is based on correct information. It is undermining the entire asylum system if you can apply on the basis of false papers, and it is quite fundamental in a rule of law that cases are dealt with on the basis of a properly informed basis. It is therefore very positive and important to focus on ensuring that the authorities make the right decisions. The Liberal Alliance supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171110101203	Thank you. Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171110101218	Thank you, Mr President. We are here today to deal with the government's proposal to establish an independent authority, the National ID centre, with expertise in identity and document control. With the proposal, the Government wants to strengthen the security and control efforts in the field of foreigners and, in particular, work to establish the identity of foreigners who come to Denmark, and we in the Alternative agree entirely with that. It is important to be able to establish the identity of the foreigners who come here and stay in Denmark, and that is why we are also, as a starting point, quite positive about the idea of an independent authority which can advise and provide assistance to public authorities on the issue of determining the identity of foreigners. However, there are some points on which we are a little concerned. The first is that we would very much like to know in which cases the authorities can pass on information about foreigners' purely private and other confidential information, because, as I understand the proposal, it says that public authorities will be allowed to derogate from the rules of the Personal Data Act on the exchange of information. As the Institute of Human Rights points out, it is important to clarify further in the comments when the authorities may derogate from the rules of the Personal Data Act on the exchange of information. That is one of the things we would like to work on in committee to see if the government can clarify this point. It is, of course, the case that the Personal Data Act exists to protect individuals and their legal certainty, and that is why we stress that there is no violation of the rights of a group of people. The second concerns the legal basis of the National ID centre itself. Fortunately, the bill emphasises that the National ID centre is an independent authority, but it has nevertheless been chosen to introduce it as a new paragraph in the Aliens Act, and what the Institute of Human Rights also says could be an advantage if it is implemented in a separate law to underline the Centre's independence. That is also one of the questions we will be asking in committee. The last thing I would like to pursue in committee is the whole problem of legal certainty in relation to the authenticity of the document and cases where there is doubt as to the authenticity of the document. As the Court of Justice Association points out, the doubt should always benefit the alien and it is pointed out that it should be clear in the law. I would also like to hear from the government whether the comments could be further developed in relation to how and how to deal with the question of doubt, i.e. that one really has doubts about the authenticity of a document. However, as I said, we are in favour of the proposal and will ask the questions in question, and it may be that the Minister can already answer some of this from the platform. Otherwise, however, it is the alternative's position on the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171110101513	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Marianne Jelved, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171110101520	Thank you. As the radical rapporteur cannot be here today, I am the one who is presenting the Radical Left's recommendations for the two legislative proposals we are discussing today. The first concerns better opportunities for decision-making on the basis of knowledge. We are, of course, very much in favour of this, and we are very pleased that it will apply even more in the field of immigration and integration, and we will encourage better cooperation across authorities, because that is very, very good. Foreigners who are not entitled or entitled to stay in Denmark shall not reside in Denmark. That is, in fact, our policy and has always been, and that is why we support, on the basis of a better monitoring effort, and agree that we need to improve that control effort. However, before I can finally give my opinion on final support for the proposal, we would like to hear a little more in detail at committee reading about how the information should be obtained and how the authorities will ensure the validity of that information. However, as I said, we are positive about the thinking and the intentions of the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20171110101625	Thank you. Then it's mr. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171110101637	Here in Denmark, we must welcome people who need protection. But we should not do so on the basis that they do not provide correct information when they come to Denmark, and I fully agree with those who have said that there is a need for control of those who come to Denmark to seek asylum and come to Denmark at all. That is why this is a sensible approach that is being proposed here and we support the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171110101708	Thank you. And I understood that the Left had covered Conservatives, wasn't it? Yes, thank you. And then it's the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171110101723	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for receiving this bill. In fact, I think that this has been a good speech, and I am thinking in particular of Mr Seligman. Mattias Tesfaye's speech, which I think bears witness to a good overview and review. After all, the government has a strong focus on strengthening control and security efforts in the field of foreigners, and that is why I have also looked forward very much to putting forward this bill, which is intended to ensure a significant increase in the quality and resources of efforts in this area. The draft law thus establishes a new authority, namely the National ID centre. The bill means that we per. On 1 January 2018, an independent competence centre will be appointed to deliver opinions at expert level and to provide advice and assistance to authorities on issues relating to the identification and verification of the identity of foreigners. In order to do so, it is necessary, among other things, to: a document technical laboratory shall be established at the highest professional level capable of carrying out so-called verification of authenticity of all types of documents relating to the identity of aliens. The bill also means that the National ID centre should help ensure that the authorities have the necessary skills in the field of ID. Among other things, it has to be done. be ensured through structured training and verification of the authenticity of the documents and identification of other documents. In addition, the draft law will mean much better coordination and also knowledge sharing between the relevant authorities. Among other things, it has to be done. by drawing up guidelines and guidelines with a view to establishing a uniform regulatory approach to the ID area. I can say that the inspiration for the bill comes from Norway, where positive experiences with a similar authority have taken place since 2010. So I am sure that the new centre, the National ID centre, will play a very important role in the strengthened efforts of the authorities against identity abuse. Having said that, I must also mention, for the sake of good order, and Mr. Marcus Knuth has already mentioned that it is already the case today that the authorities, of course, allocate considerable resources precisely to the control efforts in the field of aliens. But today, unfortunately, there are major differences between the organisation of controls in the field of foreigners and, above all, the organisation of the work to determine the identity of foreigners, as well as the competences and technical equipment available to the authorities. And that's why we want to make it right with the bill here. Because, in my view, there is no doubt that foreigners who are staying in this country and who use a false identity or who have an unknown identity can represent a security risk and, of course, also a risk in relation to crime. In that light, it is, of course, quite unacceptable that in some cases the authorities really do not know who is staying in Denmark. That is why we must continue our efforts to strengthen controls and security in the field of aliens. And I am glad, as I said, that this bill is taking a step and a significant step in the right direction. So, in conclusion, I can thank the rapporteurs for it, it has to be said that very broad support is not always the case when it is a foreign policy for this bill. And I look forward very much to our further consideration in committee. I understand that a number of questions are being raised which will be put in writing and they will, of course, be answered. But one of the issues raised here today is the question of why it is not a separate law, but why it is a change to the law on foreigners. To that end, this is a legislative initiative designed to strengthen security and control efforts in the area of foreigners and, above all, the work of the authorities to determine the identity of foreigners who wish to enter or who are already present here. And therefore, from my perspective, it is most natural that the National ID centre should therefore be established through a change to the Aliens Act rather than a separate law. But we can come back to all this in committee, where I naturally make myself available to answer the questions in writing.
ParlaMint-DK_20171110102233	Thank you. No one else has asked for the floor, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171110102250	The debate is open, and that is first Mr President. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171110102306	Thank you. With the bill L 71 we welcome 3,185 new Danes in the Danish community. We are thus fulfilling 3,185 of our friends, neighbours, colleagues and family members' desire to be able to call themselves Danish citizens. There is reason to welcome each and every one of the new Danish citizens. They are new citizens, but they are not new citizens as such, because the people on this bill are people who have had their lives and worked for a number of years here in Denmark. They have had their working life, their social life and family life alongside the rest of us, and they have shown their willingness to take the full step into the Danish community in meeting the requirements of becoming a Danish citizen. In particular, the will is important to us in the Social Democratic Party when it comes to becoming a Danish citizen. We expect that as a citizen of Denmark you can support yourself and yours; that you can contribute to the welfare society that holds hands on those who need it; that you can speak the language so that you can take part in your children's upbringing; that you can talk to educators and teachers in such a way that you can take up work in this country and contribute to and be part of your community; that you know the rights and duties that come with our democratic tradition; and that you respect the fundamental freedoms and values that relate to children's independent rights, women's equality, freedom of expression, including when it comes to issues of religion and authority, equality of the law and legal certainty for all citizens. All the demands made by the people in today's draft legislation have shown a willingness to comply, and that is why the Social Democrats must offer a great and warm congratulations. We look forward to sharing both the duties and rights of citizenship with you. When you talk about Danish citizenship, you also talk about Danishism. What does it mean to be Danish? I am absolutely convinced that this is a question that the people in our draft law have asked themselves today. It is not of course a static size, but there are a number of fundamental values which are today firmly established as Danish values and principles, which have not fallen from the sky and which have not come out of the Jutland mold like the gold horns. Values such as democracy, freedom of expression, equality, children's independent rights, the rule of law and freedom of religion are the cornerstones of modern Denmark to which we today welcome it. It is the foundation stone that has built the society that we now have with free and equal access to free health, education and education; care and security for all elderly people; a tax-financed welfare society where you provide according to your ability and enjoy according to your needs, where the widest shoulders carry the heaviest load; the Danish model where the level of organisation is high, where you collectively ensure proper pay and working conditions, a model that means that we do not have and do not want a labour market without any bottom, where there is a large illegal and poor subclass, as we unfortunately see in a number of other countries. It is all fundamental values for Denmark, that is what characterises Denmark, and that is what the Social Democratic Party wants to hold on to. In Denmark we demand of each other that everyone contribute to the community. Of course, we expect that from the new Danes, whom we welcome today with the bill, and it must also be a call from here: Now it is not only your democratic right to make decisions in Denmark, it is also your duty to participate in the debate and interfere in the debate, both in your local communities and at a higher and higher level. It is crucial that you contribute to strengthening the Denmark that I have just described. Finally, I should like to take this opportunity to congratulate all of you once again. You've worked hard for the citizenship that now becomes yours with the bill. The Social Democratic Party naturally supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171110102722	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. Then it's mr. Jep Jakobsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171110102733	Thank you. With this bill on citizenship, 3,185 adults and approx. 720 children citizenship. We are voting 'no' because we believe that too many still get Danish citizenship despite the absolutely necessary tightenings that we agreed with the government and the Social Democratic Party in October 2015. We do not feel convinced that all those who acquire citizenship with this bill are Danish right into the heart. We must note that the guidelines which are granted citizenship after today are not enough at all. That is why we have proposed a cap of 1,000 citizens a year, making the link with Danish, European and Western culture an essential prerequisite. We have said that we cannot vote in favour of the bill on citizenship until the requirement for the 1 000 ceiling has been met. If the government comes up with austerity that matches our demands, we would like to look at voting for citizenship in the future. We must then look at this when the government invites us to negotiate on this. Furthermore, we are very concerned that more refugees are now becoming Danish citizens. It is not the purpose of the asylum system to become a national of the country providing protection. The aim is to provide temporary protection until you can return home. When you grant citizenship, you say to refugees that if they stay here long enough, they can stay here for the rest of their lives. With these comments, I would like to say that the Danish People's Party will vote against the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171110102930	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Marcus Knuth, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171110102936	Thank you. Every time we meet in this Chamber and treat citizenship, we remind each other that becoming a Danish citizen is something very, very special. The red beet-colored passport doesn't just pop in by chance, because you've been living in Denmark for a few years. We believe that there should be a large number of strict requirements in relation to Danish knowledge, self-reliance, knowledge of Denmark and Danish history. You have to have Denmark all the way under your skin to become a genuine Danish citizen. That is how it should be, because we believe that we will ensure that Denmark and Danish citizenship are for those who can and will. It is a huge privilege to become a Danish citizen. We are therefore now looking forward to sharing the joys and rights of Danish citizenship, but not least with the 3,185 adults and 720 children who will soon become Danish citizens. And I would like to welcome the Conservatives and say that they also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171110103038	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171110103045	I would like to start by congratulating the 3,185 people who have been included in the legislative proposal we are debating today. I know that very many of you have worked for a long time to meet the very strict requirements and you are looking forward to having the freedom that results from having the Danish red beet passport: freedom to travel freely and, not least, the opportunity to help determine who is in this Parliament. As the Socialist rapporteur also said, it would in fact be a little strange to welcome these 3,185 people, for most of them have lived here for years or perhaps even been born here in Denmark, but now you have finally acquired citizenship, and congratulations on that. Congratulations also to the children of the children of the applicants, for they will also be given citizenship such as that of a secondary person by the adoption of this bill, which means that their continued upbringing in Denmark will be like Danish citizens and, as I said, with the freedom of travel that we others enjoy by virtue of our red beet passports. If it was to Enhedslisten, children who were born in Denmark or who have come here as quite small should have much easier access to citizenship today. In fact, I also find that there are many people who, as such, are a little surprised that even if you were born in Denmark and have lived here all your life, you are not an automatic Danish citizen. Having said all this, I would like to focus on some of the people who, unfortunately, are not on the bill. After all, the Enhedslisten has been pursuing for many months and years also the question of the practice of the Danish Parliament and the Committee on the Rights of the Child towards applicants who, because of disability or illness, cannot meet all the requirements. According to the current agreement on citizenship, there are, after all, some very clear criteria as to when an application should be submitted to the committee with the possibility of derogation, but the committee's practice has developed very dramatically over the last few years. In response to a question from the Enhedslisten, the Minister recently presented a statistics showing that in 2014 the committee's majority granted a derogation in 97%. of the cases submitted on disability and illness, the figure in 2017 has fallen to only 4%. So this is an area where you could really feel that the majority of the Folketing changed during the 2015 elections. It can then be said that it is surely the right of the political majority to decide who should be granted a derogation, and that is probably because of Paragraph 44 of the Constitution, which states that no foreigner can have citizenship without law. Yes, but we are not just bound by the constitution, we are also bound by the UN Disability Convention, which we have quite voluntarily signed up to, and the Minister has explained in reply to me in the committee in October that it would be contrary to the Convention if the committee were to reject a case in which a specialist declares that the applicant has a long-term disability which prevents him or her from passing a Danish test or a test of citizenship if the committee were to base the medical certificate. I know this is a little technical, but the last wording is quite important, that is to say, whether the committee uses the medical certificate. For the only way it cannot be a breach of the disability convention to refuse these people is if the committee says: we do not really believe in the doctor when the doctor says that, because of his disability, the applicant cannot pass the test, even if he is given the opportunity to go up with aids. I personally find it difficult to imagine that the members of the Folketing should be wiser in diagnosing than the specialists in the country. Another group of applicants who are also not on the bill are the three women mentioned in Berlingske yesterday. Admittedly, they had been informed that they had been admitted to the bill, but in the months before submission they came into a situation in which they had to receive a social benefit for a short period of time. Against this background, a political majority decided to delete them from the bill immediately before it was tabled. This is true, for example. The 31-year-old mother of two, who was so unlucky to fail a math exam at VUC this summer. This meant that she had to wait 11⁄2 months before she could start the course again, and during that period she couldn't get SU, i.e. this 11⁄2 month. So in order to support herself and her children, she received cash benefits for just over a month. The matter was referred to the Committee on the Rights of the Child, and the majority of the committee removed the woman and her daughter of 6 years of age and her nine-year-old boy from the draft law that we are discussing today. So, unfortunately, we can't congratulate this woman. Many others could be mentioned for me to see legal security problems in our practice of citizenship. I do not have time for that, but as I said, congratulations to the people who have come through the eye of the needle.
ParlaMint-DK_20171110103603	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Christina Egelund, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171110103617	Thank you. It is always a great pleasure to be able to hold the rapporteur's speech, in that we congratulate the citizens who, with this bill, acquire Danish citizenship. Of the 3,185 people who with this bill become part of the Danish community, more than the 400 are born in Denmark. It must be an independent goal that as many as possible of those staying permanently in Denmark make an effort to become an active part of society, speak the Danish language, know Denmark's culture and history and can participate in the Danish labour market. We must, of course, make sure that we do not grant a lot of rights to people who do not want Denmark. Therefore, it makes sense to have tough criteria as to when to become a Danish citizen. It is reasonable to expect people to make an effort to pass the tests and to function in Danish society at all. It is a great thing to become a Danish citizen. It allows us to participate in our democracy, and with it comes a series of duties. For a strong democracy, there is a need for the freedoms that make democracy real and alive. It is about a free press, freedom of expression, freedom of religion, freedom of assembly, equality before the law, etc. These are strong values that apply to all Danes, and today it is a great pleasure to be able to say a warm welcome to 3,185 people who have shown that they want Denmark positively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171110103803	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next is Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20171110103812	Thank you for that, President. With the adoption of this bill, we are delighted to announce 3,185 adults and 720 children Danish citizenship, and there is good reason to welcome this. We in the Alternative are certainly very happy to be able to vote in favour of the bill and warmly welcome a lot of new Danish citizens. Getting Danish citizenship is not only a great and joyous event for the individual new Danish citizen, but also for Danish society and our democracy. The adoption of this bill means that we and society are enriched with these new citizens who can and must take part in all parts of the democratic processes of Danish society. And as I said, it's a gift to Denmark. Because we believe that diversity strengthens our democracy. It gives us insights and perspectives, and it develops both as people and as a society, so that we are able to become the strongest society possible all the time, also in relation to our surrounding world. I believe that getting these new Danish citizens will increase the cohesion. For democracy is our common basis, and democracy means space and the right to diversity. It also means a duty to get involved in democracy and to take part in the debates that are taking place. Right now, there is a regional and local elections that are over, and so I look forward to these new Danish citizens also taking part in the democratic process, of course, just as they have been able to do for many years. How nice it is that we have new citizens who can fully participate in all aspects of Danish society. Because with citizenship, it is precisely the right to exercise participation in the decisions and discussions that we have here in society. So personally I look forward very much to welcoming all of you new citizens, and it is also a welcome to the citizenship event that takes place in this Parliament every year and which is always a very festive opportunity to greet each other. So from me and the alternative, I want to say a heartwarming congratulations to all the new Danish citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20171110104030	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Marianne Jelved, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171110104038	Thank you. It is pleasing to stand here on the Speaker's Chair of the Danish Parliament and warmly welcome all the 3,185 people who, at the third reading of L 71, will become Danish citizens. The new citizens have lived in Denmark for many years, and although this is the case, it is something very special when you also legally become part of the Danish community and the Danish democracy. And in the Radical Left we are pleased that many would like to do so. However, we would also like to draw attention to the many people who have applied for citizenship but have not received it. It is clear that a large number of demands must be met in order to become a Danish citizen. That goes without saying. And, of course, we also believe that we should be able to speak Danish, that we are basically self-supporting, that we are not criminals, etc. But there are people who, because of illness or disability, cannot go up to, for example. the Danish test, even if they get help. And some of these people need a derogation from the requirements in order to obtain citizenship. But they will almost never get that from the present majority of the Committee on Bodily Rights, and we must, of course, accept it, that is the state of affairs and that is the rules. But we'd like those rules to be a little different. I'm not going to go into that today. There are also examples of people who have been receiving cash benefits for a very short time and who cannot be granted an exemption, even though they have been self-supporting. It is very hard to have to face that situation, and in the Radical Left we do not believe that there is proportionality between the tiny part of the circular that some people do not live up to and that they are denied citizenship. The Radical Left is also very aware of whether we in Denmark live up to the Disability Convention when we refuse citizenship to many physically as well as mentally ill people, even though a doctor on faith and laws has declared that he or she is unable to go up to, for example, the Danish test. This is a discussion which is not yet over and which, together with a number of other parliamentary parties, we will follow very closely. However, as I said in my introduction, it is a pleasure to be able to welcome 3,185 new Danes. Welcome to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20171110104301	Thanks to Marianne Jelved. Sir. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171110104314	As our rapporteur in this area, Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, cannot be present, on behalf of the SF, I should like to welcome the 3,185 new Danes who have been included in this bill and have citizenship. It has been hard work because it is not so easy to obtain Danish citizenship. It takes many things, and therefore there is all the more reason to congratulate those who have come through the eye of the needle. It is important for us in SF to say that you are welcome in Danish society. This is something that society needs and it will be able to enrich our society both economically, culturally and democratically, and so we are very happy to say yes to this bill. By the way, I also hope to see many of you on the citizenship day at a later date. It is a fantastic opportunity to celebrate the event that lies in the fact that the bill that we are dealing with first today gives you Danish citizenship. So I would like to congratulate and welcome to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20171110104440	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for the floor, and since the Conservatives are covered by the Left, the debate is over. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Bodily Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171110104458	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday 14 November 2017, at 2 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
