ParlaMint-DK_20170427101020	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427101021	The item listed as No. 8 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427101049	Rasmus Jarlov (KF) has applied for leave from 2 May 2017, cf. Paragraph 41 of the Rules of Procedure. 3 (c). If no objection is raised, I shall consider it agreed that leave should be granted as an application and that the deputy should be called as a temporary member. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427101120	From the Committee on the Verification of Credentials, I have received the recommendation that the First Deputy of the Conservative People's Party in the Greater District of Copenhagen, Merete Scheelsbeck, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing as from 2 May 2017 on the occasion of Rasmus Jarlov's leave. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427101145	The committee's recommendation shall be put to the vote. The vote will end. The Committee's recommendation was adopted unanimously by 107 votes.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427101223	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 88 by Flemming Møller Mortensen (S), Karina Adsbøl (DF), Jane Heitmann (V), May-May-Britten Kattrup (LA) and Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel (KF). The vote will end. In favour 82 (S, DF, V, LA and KF) voted against 24 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), [no votes for or against 0]. Proposal for adoption No V 88 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 87 by Pernille Schnoor (ALT), Brix Stine (EL) and Kirsten Normann Andersen (SF) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427101334	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427101346	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 74 (S, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 31 (DF and EL), [no votes for or against 0]. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427101421	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427101434	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 106 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) [on the other hand, 0 abstained]. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427101507	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427101515	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 80 (S, DF, V, LA and KF) voted against 24 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), [no votes for or against 0]. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427101555	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427101607	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. In favour 108 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427101643	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Dansk Folkeparti, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427101652	Thank you, Madam President. It's a beautiful day today. The sun shines, and you can also begin to feel the warmth of spring in your cheeks if you are in the right place. But that is not the only reason why it is a beautiful and beautiful day today. It is also a great day for the people's regime, because today we are adopting the agreement we have reached on Danish participation in Europol cooperation. After all, we had a referendum on 3 December 2015, when the Danish People's Party recommended that the Danes vote against the lifting of the Danish reservation of law and of foreigners, and as everyone in this Chamber knows, it also ended up being the outcome of the vote. Then it is the case that sometimes you have to go through a terrible lot before it ends well. It must be said that we have also done so in this case, because there were many prophecies of doom about how things should turn out little Denmark in the light of the fact that the Danes had now squandered themselves to vote in order to retain the reservation of the law. We were told that if we were to conclude an intergovernmental agreement, as the Danish People's Party wanted, it would take 6-8 years for the European Union to be ready with such an agreement. Later we were told that the EU would not have time to talk to Denmark at all, because the British have resigned from the EU, and then Danish conditions could certainly not come into the second or third row; we had to go down to the rear row. But it did not go so badly, and it is also despite the fact that they from the European Union also reported relatively in cash. Frans Zimmermans told us we couldn't be a little pregnant. I don't know if Frans Timmermans wasn't aware that there's something called a regret pill. But in any case, we finally found out that we might be able to do that anyway. There was also an EU President, Donald Tusk, who told us all that it would probably be almost impossible to conclude such an agreement on Danish participation in Europol. He even did that during a meeting with the Prime Minister. And then maybe somebody got a little long-haired and thought it would never go well. But it did, and I think there is every reason to rejoice today. So, what kind of deal do we have? It is an agreement which in practice means that the Danish police have been set up in exactly the same way after 1 May as before 1 May. Then there is even more reason to rejoice, because then you would think that those parties who had recommended a yes in this referendum would be happy and enthusiastic and leave all that belly and sadness after being voted down by the electorate. But that is not quite what we have got the impression of. On the contrary, we have probably had the impression that we have made a good deal and then we have tried to sell it to the people as a bad deal. It's paradoxical. This corresponds to the acquisition of a Mercedes-Benz, and then you try to convince the buyers that they have to buy a Ford Taunus. I really don't think there's any reason for that. This is a really good deal we have had here. After 1 May, the Danish police have, as I said, been completely as they were before 1 May. Denmark can participate in task forces and working groups as before. There is a tiny but, quite modest one, about where we could vote at Europol's Board of Directors meetings, we now have only a quote sign • the right to speak. What does that mean in practice? I asked you about it. This means in practice that Denmark's voice has never been decisive in a vote on Europol's Management Board, never. How often do we even vote on Europol's Management Board? You hardly ever do. So it doesn't even matter that much. Then it is clear that the agreement must not be too good. That's why in the future it will be the case that each patrol car will be able to access these registers. Nowadays, if you're looking up something in the CIS register, you call the National Investigation Centre, which then makes the post and returns to the cop who's gonna make this listing. In future, such a police officer will also be called, and the police officer concerned is then formally employed by Europol. That's kind of the difference. But the big problem was this future thing. What brings the future? And the future would then bring this fantastic opportunity for every single cop to sit out in his car and access this information, and we thought so, because we had been told that by the yes parties until the day before yesterday. Because it was the case that Radio24syv, this excellent radio station, called Europol and asked: what about that future? How close is it? That was actually the purpose. Is it tomorrow, or is it six months from now? And then this good man, Jan Op Gen Oorth, tells Radio24seven, what are you talking about? We have no plan for a future in which ordinary police officers in an ordinary patrol car should be able to access the SIS register. We don't know anything about that. There are quite a few people who need to have access to this. That's weird. For now, we had a whole first reading of this case, where the jalots stood and painted a picture of the fact that the big problem with this deal was that it wasn't future-proof. However, Europol obviously does not believe that the future which the Yachts believe to be on the right track is really going to materialise, and I can tell you today that the Minister of Justice, before the Bureau of Ritzau, notes that what has been said by Europol is also true, that is to say that Mr Ritzau's report is correct. Jan Op Gen Oorth is probably right that the future of any police officer entering the SIS register via his iPad is not just around the corner and is actually not on the wallpaper. But that does not end because there has to be a hair in the soup, and Mrs Zenia Stampe found it at first reading. After all, Mrs. Zenia Stampe consulted the Minister for Justice and found out that only eight employees can now access this information, and there have been 100 who have had that access before. So it's a disaster, it can't be done at all, and these eight people can't do that job. But then I asked the Minister for Justice who asked for eight, and it is the National Police themselves, and I understand that members of the Left are now trying to drive on with that with the fact that it is a major problem, a major disaster, with those eight employees. But it isn't, and if it was, the National Police could have just asked for the number they thought they needed. The National Police felt they needed eight, which is why the agreement says eight. The thing is, we've got a fantastic deal. We have reached an agreement which answers the questions that we had from the Danish People's Party after the vote on 3 December and which are quite the way we wanted it. We have a reservation in law that no one can mess with the reservation of law and of foreigners and we have a Danish police that has been placed exactly the same way after 1 May as before 1 May. There is, in fact, quite a lot to be pleased about. There is not only the beautiful weather and the coming spring it has been waiting for it, but there is also this agreement, which is an incredibly good agreement for Denmark and therefore also a future-proof agreement for Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427102540	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a number of brief comments, and that is first Mr President. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427102542	Thank you. Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth talks and talks and then I won't go on, because then I think the President will intervene and that must cover up the fact that Denmark is not a member of Europol after 1 May. We are no longer a member of Europol after 1 May. We have reached an agreement which, according to the circumstances, is quite good, I agree with that, but the fact is that the Danish People's Party promised something and I quote: there is a guarantee that Denmark can stay in Europol regardless of the outcome of the vote on 3 December. No matter how long, sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth is not going to succeed in convincing the people that he is right in his statement. Greens has done an opinion poll where you have asked the Danes if you agree that the Danish People's Party has delivered, if you agree that we have an agreement that is exactly like the one we had before. And there is someone who says yes to 11 per cent. In other words, not even the Danish People's Party's own voters have been able to convince of that view, because that is wrong. 74 per cent Says no, 14 percent. I don't know.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427102649	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427102650	In fact, if you did the one that was gradually doing a little old-fashioned study again today, I think the result would be somewhat different, and that is due to the fact that at least for a period of time Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen to blow and have flour in his mouth. And it did, of course, because the government has made a fantastic deal, but the government's rapporteur was sent to town with the announcement that the agreement was terrible and could not be used for anything. That's absurd, isn't it? It's absurd. Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen must admit that for the individual Danish police officer this agreement means nothing. There is no difference between the possibilities that the individual Danish police officer had before 1 May compared to after 1 May. The only one, the only tiny thing that is the difference, is the question of whether we can vote on a board where you never vote. Should we really have given up our legal and foreign reserve in order to be able to vote on a board where you never vote? I mean, no.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427102757	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427102800	I also do not know how many times votes have been formalised in the Group of the Danish People's Party room. I understand that the employees are sitting in the windowsill, and they have seen the same thing as having to say to those who are members of the Folketing, because you never sit and vote anyway. That's nonsense. It is Members who decide, and it is observers who observe what the others decide. That's the way it is. Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth is, of course, correct in saying that for the cop who leads Livgarden down Strøget, it probably doesn't mean much, but if you're in the middle of an investigation and you call down one of the cops who sits in Europol in the future... It can't be any other way, and it's up to Mr. Knox himself. Kenneth Kristensen Berth could understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427102849	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427102850	I am not going to comment on people's toilet habits, but I would like to make it quite clear that the figure of 8 employees is the number requested by the National Police. If the National Police had said that they need 12, or that they need 16, or that they need 20, they would have gotten it. But it has been the opinion of the National Police that it was 8, and if Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, in all his wisdom, will question that number, Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen takes it up with the National Police Commissioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427102922	Then it's mr. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427102923	When the police today approach a foreigner who they think is suspicious in some way, they will ask him, but they would also like to hold him back while looking into the matter. But can't hold him back if he can legitimise himself, and it's not enough just to suspect him of something, and then you want to obtain information from Europol. We know how that happens today, and it happens fairly gelind, one can safely say. Can the rapporteur guarantee that the new system will not give us the situation that the police will not be able to hold them back for as long as it takes to get information about the person concerned out of Europol's system? I fear that you may have to let them go, even if there is a good suspicion of something, and that only afterwards, when it is possible to get the information through the new system, will you find that you should actually have arrested him.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427103020	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427103022	The National Police Commissioner has said that we can count on that. And if the chief of police had assessed differently, I guess he would've asked for some more employees. That number eight is not something that has been imposed on us by the European Union. I guess the European Union has said: how many do you think you need? And then our feedback has been eight. It could have been twelve or sixteen, as I said, but it has been eight. And that's where I trust the National Police Commissioner enough to say it must be a sober offer.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427103057	Sir. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427103058	Now I just ask about the position of the Danish People's Party on the fact that we can get into a situation where the police have to let foreigners go and cannot take the time to investigate their relationship because of the new regime. Does the Danish People's Party think this is a major step forward? That's how I understood it, sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427103116	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427103117	In fact, I can only repeat what I said in my first reply to Mr Seligman. Preben Bang Henriksen. It's the National Police who delivered the number eight. If the National Police's assessment had been different, there would have been another figure in that agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427103137	Then it's Mrs. Jane Heitmann, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427103138	Thank you. That was quite a festive speech from the rapporteur here. I noted that the rapporteur called the agreement fantastic, and I therefore share the point of departure that, in relation to the conditions that existed, it is actually a fantastic agreement that we have had. One of the prerequisites of the agreement is that Denmark retains the link that we have with Schengen cooperation. And I just want to hear from the rapporteur whether it is also the rapporteur's view that the link we have with Schengen is fantastic.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427103215	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427103216	No, I do not share that view. I know that some people have tried to say that this is a major problem. I would say that on the day we in the Danish People's Party are able to persuade 90 seats in the Danish Parliament to vote in favour of Danish withdrawal from Schengen, we will handle that task. The fact is that this is a politically determined decision which has entered into the agreement and which actually has no relevance to the agreement. The fact is that Britain and Ireland are not members of Schengen under the same conditions as the rest of the EU countries, but nevertheless they are members of Europol. So I think we can take it really easy. If the day comes when 90 seats in the Folketing vote for Denmark to resign from Schengen, then we will also find an agreement and a solution with the European Union on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427103312	Here you go, Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427103317	Thank you. I just want to stick to this starting point because it's a fantastic deal. I have to understand that the rapporteur is now not too enthusiastic about Schengen. One of the prerequisites for obtaining the agreement is that Denmark remains a member of the European Union, as we have known for a number of years. And it is okay to be dissatisfied with a small corner in Schengen, but I assume that the rapporteur must be able to support the European Union. It's a pre-requisite for this amazing deal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427103355	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427103356	Now I have to say to the rapporteur that the reason why we have reached that agreement on those grounds is, in fact, that we are members of the European Union. Outside the European Union, there are a large number of countries which have agreements on participation in Europol cooperation under certain other conditions. After all, the question of EU membership is not under discussion here today, but there we have been quite clear about what our wishes are. The Danes must take a position on this when we know the outcome of the British negotiations. But it's gonna take a few years.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427103430	Then it's mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427103431	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Kenneth Kristensen Berth for what you might call a festive speech. I do not agree with the content very much. I just couldn't decide where to start, because I think so much nonsense was said that it almost hurt. But I will go to the same place as Mrs Jane Heitmann did before, precisely about Schengen, because it was one of the things that was a cardinal point, I had to understand in the Danish People's Party, prior to the vote 16 months ago. It was simply that we would be forced to be Schengen members if we voted in favour of transforming the legal reservation. That was an independent argument. I should just like to ask the rapporteur to confirm the prerequisite for the agreement we have now reached on Europol on what can at best be called a 'B' membership: is it that we are in Schengen? Yes or no.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427103529	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427103530	Well, I do think that Mr. Knox... Mr Ellemann-Jensen and Mr Ellemann-Jensen. Mr Ellemann-Jensen, colleague of Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr On the one hand, it is a good agreement that the government has reached, on the other hand it is quite awful. It's very, very strange. I think that a lot of Danes are wondering about that attitude. Having said that, it is clear that the problem is one of many problems, by the way, with the referendum on the rule of law, this was the question of the release of the Schengen mechanism. It is still a problem, but it is not a problem in relation to this agreement, because this agreement is an agreement that binds the parties intergovernmentally and not supranationally, and that means that if we want it, we can, of course, terminate the agreement we have reached on Europol and get out of Schengen that way, if that is what we want. We would not have been able to do so in the event that the Danes had voted in favour of the vote on 3 December 2015. It's not as binding as that, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen. And then it has to be said that Schengen, after all, is undergoing some changes in these years. I think so too, sir. After all, Jakob Ellemann-Jensen must agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427103636	Thank you. Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427103637	Thank you. As far as the first part of the answer is concerned, it is possible that Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth cannot look nuanced on things, but to attribute the voters the same inability I think is simply to treat the Danish voters too harshly. I think people can see that this is not the same thing as had been promised by the Danish People's Party. That's different. And given the situation we are in, it is the best possible solution. It has been negotiated by the Danish Government, and I am quite happy about that. I would have preferred us to be full members. This was not the case with the Danish People's Party. There was a guarantee that we could be allowed to do everything anyway, and that is not true. But the short of the long one is that the answer to my question before that was: Yes. We are still obliged to be members of Schengen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427103723	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427103724	The answer to that question is no. We're not. We are intergovernmentally committed, but we are not supranationally committed. And I just have to say to Mr. Knox. Mr Ellemann-Jensen. - (DA) Mr President, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Ellemann-Jensen on his excellent report. Mr Ellemann-Jensen. - (DA) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Ellemann-Jensen on his excellent report. Mr Ellemann-Jensen. - (DA) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. That's what we're down to. That is the difference between before 1 May and after 1 May.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427103804	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427103809	Thank you. I think I just need to start by bringing it somewhere where we can all be there. Well, I think that in these circumstances there is a great deal of joy in the Folketing, and there is, because all parties are behind this agreement... know that it could be done to get an agreement when we voted no back in December 2015. However, that does not change the fact that I think that the rapporteur is really looking at both the Folketing here and, as such, the electorate out there, when he claims that it is quite the same as if we had voted 'yes' back in December 2015. It's not the same thing. Denmark has a B membership. We are observers in the governing bodies of Europol. Nor does it change the fact that the National Police have warned the Danish Parliament that in the near future it is not an adequate agreement, no matter what Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth must have heard in Radio24syv. So will the rapporteur not only admit to the Folketing here and to the electorate out there that Denmark is not fully involved in Europol, just as the rapporteur's own party chairman also admitted in the autumn of last year when he said that he had gone too far?
ParlaMint-DK_20170427103914	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427103915	See, that's not something I heard in Radio24seven. This is something that the country's Minister of Justice has stated today in a ritzautelegram, that is to say that it has probably gone a little too far in drawing up a picture of a future where Danish officers can run around and access some registers via their iPad. That's what was the big animal in the revelation... cause one... it wasn't about some board post in Europol. There the yes parties had given up long ago and said: okay, we do not win a debate on whether we have spoken on a board or voting on a board where you never vote. So I have to say that in my view the question that Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen says, of course, that Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen hasn't seen that telegram from Ritzau. - Sir? - Yes, sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen also did not hear criticism of, for it came, quite shortly before we had this debate. Nevertheless, it is not in the immediate future, yes, it is perhaps not even in the future that you get access to these registers through your iPad.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427104024	Thank you. Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427104026	So, first of all, as I understand it, the point is that in future, the officers who need it will be able to access registers in the field where they are. And it's a future, whether it's near or a little further away than near, doesn't change the fact that the National Police's assessment to the Danish Parliament has been that this agreement will not be sufficient in the future. But Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth didn't answer what I asked. Will he not admit that the agreement we have now reached, which we are all happy with, etc., nevertheless means that it is not a full membership • it is not an A membership of Europol, and we are not fully involved, as a number of the 'no' parties claimed that we could be back in the vote in December 2015?
ParlaMint-DK_20170427104109	Thank you. And then it's sir. René Gade, the alternative. Of course the rapporteur must have a brief comment. Thank you to the party chairman. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427104113	Thank you, Mr President. Then I got a little longer to think. No, I'd like to say to Mr. Knox. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, the case is that the japarts could just as well throw the towel in the ring to the best of my knowledge and recognise that this agreement is extremely good for Denmark. I've also heard, among other things. The Social Democrats believe that the Social Democrats are not prepared to say that Danish immigration policy, for example, will have to be adopted in Brussels in the future. But the Minister for Integration then goes to meetings with her colleagues in Brussels, stating what the Danish views are, and that's quite fine, and that's good, and she's probably doing a great job trying to get those people to understand the sense of the policy being pursued by Denmark. But that doesn't change the fact that the individual officer on the street doesn't see any difference. The vast majority of cops will see no difference. Those who will experience a difference are the employees who will in future receive a paycheck from Europol instead of getting a paycheck from the National Police.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427104231	Thank you. Then it's mr. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427104233	I would like to start by thanking the government very much because the best possible agreement has been reached. And then I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether it is true that the rapporteur has promised more than could be kept. I believe that we are demanding quite a lot from our ministers. We demand that you keep the facts under control and tell the truth. This also applies to us MEPs in general. Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen tried to get a clear answer before, and I would like to ask again without going into the substance: has the rapporteur not promised more than was finally possible?
ParlaMint-DK_20170427104309	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427104310	No, we've got everything we could dream of. In fact, in connection with this debate, I personally said that some of what I might, after all, have an understanding of, given that we would have a changed relationship with Europol after a no, would be the question of whether we had the right to vote on Europol's Management Board. I can see that, in the circumstances in which we have not accepted supranational membership, it is difficult to maintain that we should then have the right to vote. So, yes, the small part is missing, but in reality we had expected that we would not be able to get it with us. But I would also like to say that it is an incredibly high price to pay for abolishing the Danish reservation on the rule of law and foreigners to win a vote on a board where you never vote, and that is really what we are doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427104404	There are no further comments? No, good. Thank you. Then I would like to thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427104423	It is a good day today in many ways, because we have all got what we wanted in one way or another, at least in relation to Europol. Then there are some who did not get any more EU, and of course they are disappointed that this comes out clearly in the debate, because they did not give more Danish self-determination to the EU, and they thought that was too bad enough, then we have that disagreement. But we should really be glad today that what we have gone for together, namely an agreement on Europol, has come through and come through well. I'll get back to that. However, I would like to start by saying that it is not the case that the Enhedslisten is cheerful for Europol. In fact, we have concerns about Europol. Any institution which gathers a great deal of information about citizens must be on guard against this, even if we are in favour of cross-border police cooperation against serious crime, because of course we must have that. However, there have always been problems with Europol, and I am sure that the Minister of Justice can confirm that it is completely incomprehensible how it could happen that information from Europol on suspects, arrested in the terrorist case, but also totally innocent persons, was posted so that it was fully accessible on the Internet. I am sure the Minister for Justice can confirm that this was very serious. The desire we have to combat cross-border crime does not mean that we are just cheerful for everything that comes from Europol. We are calling for a critical distance, and that is why, at second reading of the previous paragraph, we also put forward a number of proposals on improving data security. It was supported, and I would like to thank you for this, from the SF, from the Alternative, from the Radical Left and far along the way also from the Danish People's Party. There was one thing that the Danish People's Party could not be involved in, and I was sincerely pleased about that, because we could then have dealt with some of the problems that could arise. Unfortunately, however, there was a majority who rejected our proposal for better legal certainty at second reading. But this is just to say at the outset that it is not the case that we are cheering over everything that comes from Europol, but we are pleased that the agreement has been reached that ensures that the necessary cooperation against cross-border crime can continue. Is this, then, something that we can agree to in the form it is in here, while we called for a vote against in the referendum on 3 December 2015? Yes, and there are two reasons. One reason was that in the 2015 referendum there were a whole lot of other things that we also had to take a position on, among other things. a permanent right to the Folketing by a majority of a vote to be able to transfer an unlimited number of legislative acts and areas of law to the EU without sending it to a referendum. We thought that was just violent enough - and we thought that in itself was an argument for a no. But there was one more reason, and that was that precisely because there are those problems with Europol, we do not want to be part of a supranational Europol, because a supranational Europol cannot be withdrawn. It is not possible to withdraw from a supranational Europol if the problems of data security become too serious, but it is possible to withdraw from an intergovernmental Europol, and that is why the agreement we have reached, which is precisely about an intergovernmental Europol, makes it possible for us to retain the decision here in the Danish Parliament and in the Danish people, in other words whether we want to be in that cooperation, even if it turns out that the serious legal and data security problems continue. As far as the content of the agreement itself is concerned, it is as good as it could be. Something has been said about whether we can vote. We asked that question, of course, because it was relevant to clarify, and in fact we got a perfectly clear answer, namely that there had not been a single vote for the last five years, when Denmark's vote would have been decisive. That is to say, the right to vote is not so important. Then we have asked the Minister for Justice how many votes there have been for the last five years, and it may be that the Minister for Justice can reveal on this feast day how many votes there have actually been on the Europol Administrative Board, because if there are no votes, it is a relatively limited victim that you are not allowed to vote. It is, in fact, only a problem if there are votes. So I look forward very much to the Minister for Justice's final comment and just explaining the individual element. But otherwise everyone has expressed satisfaction. Experts have expressed satisfaction, the Kingdom police have expressed satisfaction with the situation today. They say there are some problems in the future. And the Minister for Justice has, in this way, given the clearest blue stamp of that agreement here in the Parliament, when he answered a question from me asking whether the Minister for Justice would ever accept an agreement that was not really good for Danish police and where the Minister for Justice replied that it would of course not. That is why we have here an agreement which not only has the stamp of the experts, which has the stamp of the National Police, but also has the stamp of the Minister of Justice and thus the government. I think that's really good. On the other hand, I do not think it is so good that we are using this as an attempt to cast doubt on the agreement that the Minister of Justice is so pleased with, by repeatedly suggesting that there are problems. Well, that's because the yes side won't really discuss the fact that many of the claims that came in the election campaign weren't correct. Then the question is, since we have this today, if it was not an idea that we were trying to take stock, and that some might also say: okay, there we probably went a little too far, that did not come true. We can take some examples. Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, who spoke earlier, the rapporteur of the Left, said, for example: in Parliament's debate on 21 May 2015 and I quote: "Even if you waited for the agreement to be concluded, the existing Danish parallel agreements have taken 4 years to negotiate. The Commission even emphasized that the agreements were only exceptional and temporary, but it takes more than four years for Denmark to be potentially open to all bandies and paedophiles in the world, so that we can have a worse agreement. So you have to ask: Is Denmark today open to gangs and paedophiles? Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr said something similar. She said to Deadline on 21 August 2015: If you imagine that we will vote "no' it is fortunately the Danes who decide "we will be in a position to seek a parallel agreement and then it will be 5-7 years before it falls into place and we will fall out of Europol next year. I can add in parentheses that I fully agree with the chairman of the SF that it is fortunately the Danes who are in charge. But was that true? After all, the Minister of Justice needs to get up to pick up on the debate, so he must also have the opportunity to respond here. So I'm gonna take a few quotes from the Attorney General. For example: expressed the Minister for Justice in the party leader round on 28 November 2015: I think it would be awful if we were to get out of Europol. It is simply too serious and a parallel agreement takes 4-6 years. And for no one to doubt the point, the Minister of Justice repeated: 4-6 years! I don't think that's quite the case. And, just like putting trump on Twitter on 2 December 2015, the Minister of Justice stressed the night before the vote: if it is going to become a no, we will retain the reservation of law as it is today, and that does not mean that things are as they have been. That means that Denmark must leave Europol. Yeah, that's absolutely right. Denmark has left Europol in the sense that we have not entered into supranational cooperation. We have remained at the level we were. I assume that the Minister for Justice can confirm that the cooperation we were involved in Europol up to 1 May was intergovernmental cooperation. And what are we in with Europol now? This is intergovernmental cooperation. So we have not left any Europol. We have remained in exactly the same Europol. Then the others have decided to build a supranational superstructure on it. All right, let them do it. We've just decided that we don't want that. And we do not want that for one simple reason: we want questions about legal policy and questions about legal certainty to be questions where the Danish people have a direct influence through those they choose for the Danish Parliament. Fortunately, that is the way things are going in the future. Yeah, it's a good day today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427105403	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. Is there anyone else who wishes to speak? That is not the case and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427105422	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 107 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF). The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427105518	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427105528	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. For the vote 47 (S, EL, RV and SF), against 60 (DF, V, LA, ALT and KF), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427105610	The debate is primarily about the proposed amendment. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendment is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427105632	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 of a minority (DF), joined by a majority (S, V, LA, ALT and CF)? The proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427105645	The negotiations then concern the proposal as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the proposal? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427105653	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 81 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), against 24 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The draft parliamentary resolution has been adopted and will now be sent to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427105737	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427105859	The debate is open. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427105928	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2 elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427105945	The debate is open. Sir. Dan Jørgensen, the Social Democratic Party, is not present. Then we move on to Mr. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427110020	Thank you. The bill is part of the 2017 Finance Act between Dansk Folkeparti and the government. The Danish People's Party has emphasized that there is generally a greater focus on the repatriation of resident foreigners, and in the financial law agreement there are among other things. allocated EUR 6 million; kr. to examine a number of cases in the field of aliens in order to assess whether the basis of residence can be withdrawn so that the foreigners concerned can be sent out by Denmark, if necessary, by force. So we're working on repatriating more people by force. However, the aim of this bill is to make it more attractive for resident foreigners to return voluntarily to their home countries. The bill must motivate more people to take advantage of the possibility of voluntary repatriation, among other things. by making it more economical to return and then also by strengthening the guidance there is and the opportunities for returning to one's home country with financial support, but it can also be other countries than exactly one's home country. The draft law contains, among other things: proposals to increase support for health insurance in repatriating to countries with low or no public health systems, and to introduce financial support for homeschooling for families with school children. The bill also reintroduces the performance grant to the municipalities in order to strengthen the municipalities' focus on repatriation, which means that each time the municipality persuades a foreigner to travel, the municipality receives a financial bonus from the state. Then it is also proposed in the proposal to introduce a refund requirement if you return to Denmark, and that is to prevent abuse of the scheme. There have been some examples of some who have taken advantage of the scheme and then they have regretted and returned, and then the public and the municipality have not been good enough to claim the money they have been given in the first place. Now comes a rule, a firm demand that if you return, the money should of course be returned to the state. Those were the remarks. The Danish People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427110207	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427110223	Thank you. Dan Jørgensen may not be here, but Jan Jørgensen is here. With this bill, the government will make it easier for foreigners to return to their homeland. That is why this legislative proposal will improve and strengthen what we call the repatriation scheme. The government will, among other things. make by allowing for support for health insurance of up to DKK 7,500. per for up to 4 years, and at the same time provide financial support for school in the home country with up to a total of DKK 24,000. And the proposal also increases the incentive for municipalities to step up their efforts and introduce a refund claim if a foreigner regrets a repatriation and returns to Denmark. The proposal has received a number of positive comments along the way, including: from the Danish Refugee Aid Council and the Council of Ethnic Minorities and the Red Cross, and we are pleased about that. Of course, we ourselves also think that the government's proposal to strengthen efforts to bring people back home is extremely sensible. Of course, people who have a dream of returning to their homeland must be helped to the best of their ability. It is a great decision and with measures such as these, the way becomes easier and shorter for foreigners who want to return home. The improved opportunities for repatriation can also be a gain for Danish society. We must recognise that in Denmark, unfortunately, we have a large group of people who are without education and without work and probably never really have become part of Denmark. Either they can't or they won't be part of our community. Their roots have been planted elsewhere, and they will have a better life in their homeland, and that is what we want to give them every opportunity to do so. I have also noted that there is some criticism in the hearings. Among other things: is criticized by the fact that you have to pay a repatriation allowance back if you regret it. And that's a criticism I can't quite understand. Because it must be so that when you get a reward for doing something and you subsequently change your mind, then you have to return the reward. Otherwise, we risk standing with a group that is beginning to speculate on using the rules for the sake of economic gain, and that is obviously not the intention. It is therefore also sensible to introduce a refund claim if you regret and return to Denmark. In accordance with the general rules, there will, of course, be the possibility of a repayment arrangement. You cannot cut your hair off a bald, of course, so it will be possible to pay back the money at the rate you have financial opportunity to do. But it must be right and proper for the money to be paid back. It also means that we will hopefully consider whether we are ready to return to our home country. As I said before, this is a very big decision. But we want to help foreigners who have a desire to return home as well as possible. At the same time, we are giving the municipalities an incentive to speed up the process. We in the Left believe this to be extremely sensible, and that is why we naturally support the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427110540	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427110546	In the Enhedslisten we think that the possibility of repatriation is important and good, i.e. that refugees living in Denmark will find out at some point that they want to return now that there is peace and security in the country they come from. And there are, in fact, refugees who, having lived for a number of years in Denmark, come to the conclusion that they would really like it, but the possibility does not exist if they do not get any support for it. It is, of course, absolutely crucial for us that this repatriation is voluntary. I mean, it's a decision you're making as a fugitive. In principle, therefore, we also support measures that strengthen the possibility of repatriation, that is to say the possibility of returning to the home country, and specifically in this draft law, to strengthen the possibility of health insurance and better opportunities for children to receive education. So far so good. The problem with the bill is that it is written from a distinctly different point of view from that of Enhedslisten, a starting point that is that you want as many as possible to leave the country. For us in Enhedslisten, the main purpose is that the opportunity to repatriate exists, not to get a lot of refugees to leave Denmark. The aim is for there to be a voluntary opportunity for the refugees to return if that is what they want. The biggest problem in this bill is what is being called a performance grant to the municipalities. The scheme has been tried before and, as is also pointed out by Danish Refugee Aid, the previous scheme was not evaluated and, as at that time, the National Association of Municipalities is critical of the scheme. In other words, the system whereby a municipality gets a bonus if they manage to get a refugee to leave the country. It is absolutely essential that advice on the possibilities of repatriation should be conducted impartially and based on the situation of the refugees themselves and on opportunities for a good life. If the municipal case officer knows that the municipality gets paid per year. Repatriated fugitive, so is the advice per. It is not an independent definition and, as pointed out by the National Association of Municipalities, the scheme creates the risk that the refugees will simply lose faith in the guidance they receive in the municipality. So instead of going as a refugee to the municipality and saying that one could actually consider returning to the country from which one comes and would like to talk about what opportunities there are, the refugees will be in a situation where they think: they will probably give me this guidance because they will be paid for me leaving the country. It's not independent guidance. KL also points out that municipalities with fewer refugees, and hence fewer, which can be persuaded to return, will pay, by offsetting the block grant, for income subsidies to the municipalities which send many refugees out of the country. Then there are the bill's absolute repayment claims, which according to the government must counteract abuse. We know from the Danish Refugee Aid hearing that there are very few and very rare examples of misuse of existing repatriation aid. If repatriation fails and a refugee has to return to Denmark, then I will now find it terribly sad if the first thing to meet the refugee is a massive debt to the public. And we have noted that Danish Refugee Aid writes that the right of withdrawal is primarily used as a safety net for returnees who experience that it was not safe to return to the country from which they originally fled. We agree with Danish Refugee Aid that it will be to weaken the safety net to implement this absolute refund requirement. So unless the government wants to split up the bill so that you can vote for the part about health insurance and support for school etc., and against this grant that the municipalities get, if they manage to persuade a fugitive to leave the country, then we will vote against the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427111011	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427111018	Thank you. For some foreigners, the dream of a better life in Denmark does not become reality. You come here with the best intentions to work and be integrated, but you find that it is not that easy. After all, we must help those people to return to their country of origin or their former country of residence. There are, of course, a number of considerations that you make when you have to make the decision to move from Denmark. Perhaps you should go back to a country without public health insurance or where the opportunities for schooling are not as good as they are in Denmark. These are considerations which are quite natural, but which this bill will make easier for the individual. It is of course the best thing for both Denmark and the individual to move back to your home country if you can make a better life there, rather than stay in Denmark. That's why the Liberal Alliance supports those measures so that this bill can facilitate that decision for the individual foreigner. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427111122	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427111133	Thank you. As the other rapporteurs have also mentioned, this is a proposal for a law amending the law on repatriation, that is to say, what we are offering to those who wish to return voluntarily to their country of origin. With the bill, the Minister wants to make voluntary repatriation more attractive and, at the same time, implement some changes that will then have to counteract abuse. It is very, very positive that there are some improvements that can be offered to citizens who want to return home. As the other rapporteurs have already mentioned, it is a really difficult decision to make, and it is therefore very positive that this draft law focuses on providing financial support for homeschooling for families with school children. It is also very positive that we want to increase support for health insurance when returning to countries with little or no public health system. So it's really positive. Then, unfortunately, we come to the negative things. There, in the alternative, we believe that the proposal concerning the grant of compensation to municipalities, that is to say, that the municipalities are given an extra bonus to encourage repatriation, that the absolute requirement for repayment and amendment of the rules on the extension of the right of withdrawal in reality undermines the whole purpose of this law in terms of making voluntary repatriation more attractive, and thus it actually works counter-productively and undermines a real possibility of return. It is important for the alternative that there should be voluntary repatriation and that there should also be a real possibility of return. And we believe that the things that lie here in the bill can undermine it. If the Minister will consider dividing up the bill and taking these parts out of the specific bill, then we can back the proposal. We believe it is important to listen to the National Association of Municipalities when they argue against the reinstatement of the income subsidy to the municipalities, because, as they say, it could destroy citizens' confidence in the municipality's guidance, as citizens will see any guidance on repatriation as the municipality's attempt to simply make money rather than provide a sincere guide that wants to put forward the best possible solution for citizens. We believe that we can prevent the citizen from choosing a voluntary repatriation, which could actually be the best solution for the citizen concerned. And that, in turn, is an effect that we believe can undermine the whole purpose of the legislative proposal. We also believe that with this result grant to the municipalities there is a risk that already pressured municipalities might be inclined to focus on these solutions rather than how the citizen can contribute to the development of Denmark. And in the end, any pressure from the municipality may distort the assumption that repatriation is a voluntary decision. Then I also mentioned at the outset that the absolute demand for repayment and the amendment of the rules on the extension of the right of withdrawal could undermine a real possibility of return. And I understand the Minister. After all, the Minister is proposing these changes in order to avoid abuse, and we agree with that. The fine is that the municipalities already have the opportunity to take the necessary measures if there is a suspicion of abuse. Secondly, as Danish Refugee Aid states, the right of withdrawal is used primarily as the intended safety net for people who experience personal problems for security reasons. In implementing an absolute demand for reimbursement, citizens who are in a poor security situation are at risk of remaining in it because otherwise they will be put in a very difficult economic situation. Furthermore, fear of ending up with a large financial debt can prevent individuals from choosing voluntary repatriation. It is again an undermining of the otherwise positive purpose that the draft law lays down. We believe that the current system, in which the municipality evaluates the citizen's motivation to resume a home life, meets both the objective of avoiding abuse and the possibility of real return opportunities. So, in reality, I think that here we are trying to legislate on the basis of the few people who are afraid to abuse it and that the legislation does not take into account the complexity. That is a pity, because, as I have said several times, the overall purpose of the law is very good. Unless we can split up the bill, the alternative will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427111626	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427111632	I believe that former rapporteurs have explained in detail some of the details of the incentive requirements for municipalities. What I am really concerned about is: What does it work? How do we get people who want to go back to where they fled when there has been peace to do so? In other words, we are in favour of helping them start up when that happens, and that is already part of our legislation. On the other hand, I find it very difficult to find any evidence that it would have any effect to raise the amount or to introduce these incentive requirements, let alone refund claims. I remember a year ago in Albertslund talking to a woman of Lebanese origin who had fled to Denmark and had been here for a number of years. She had gone back with her family to Lebanon, where at that time it was many years ago that war broke out again. The family again had to flee to Denmark. I find it very difficult to see how it would make sense for this woman, who really wanted to have established herself again in Lebanon, to be punished for the outbreak of war again. Conversely, the documentation we have at all applies to refugees in the 1990s from the former Yugoslavia. The best effect with repatriation, which exists and is documented, applies to the former Yugoslavs who quickly came to work and were those who were best integrated in Denmark. In the cities where the groups succeeded, the largest group returned when there was peace in the former Yugoslavia. This is the documentation I have been able to find, and it is of course in favour of making much, much greater efforts to ensure that refugees get started quickly, quickly into work and are quickly integrated, because this is indeed the way to get more people to repatriate when there is peace in their country of origin. It is those with the greatest surplus and the greatest overview that also goes back first to help rebuild their country. And that is why we are not in favour of this bill as a starting point, because we find it difficult to see how it will make any difference at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427111940	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427111957	Overall, we're positive about this bill. Our starting point is that refugees who come to Denmark actually have a desire to be able to return again. That is an argument we are constantly using in the debate on how many people can come to Denmark, and I think that is also true. To the extent that we can encourage them to actually return, I think we should contribute to it, and this bill is also an expression of that. So we fully agree with that. Are there any critical points in that? It has been mentioned that the system whereby the municipalities are given financial incentives to persuade refugees to go home can be abused by the municipalities that this is a wrong starting point. Some say that this means that the municipalities will try to get as many as possible to go home. Well, I think it is an advantage that many go back, not least for themselves, if they think it is reasonable to do so. And there is no question of compulsory arrangements here. It is clear that you can enter into some balance discussions about how much resources the municipalities spend on encouraging people to travel and how they do it, whether it is experienced as coercion. But I think it can be managed around the municipalities. If there are problems or if there are problems here, then we are prepared to look at it, including in committee. And if there are any critical corners at all that need to be filed off, then we are also willing to look at it. But overall, we are in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427112200	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427112207	It is the case that some of those who live here with an immigrant and refugee background are here physically, but mentally elsewhere. Some of them really want to go back, but lack an incentive, perhaps an economic incentive. It may be older people who want to spend their old age in their home countries. In other words, this bill makes it attractive for those who want to be repatriated in their home countries. At least they'll be able to do it. The aim of the draft law, as several rapporteurs have said in the past, is to motivate those who want to return to their home countries to come back. And this is done by making it more economically attractive to say yes to repatriation. Local authorities are also encouraged to help help people get repatriated. In addition to that, there is also an opportunity to provide support for health insurance and for schools in countries where that option is otherwise not there. So all in all, we actually think that this is a sensible proposal that we in the Conservative People's Party support.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427112331	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Dan Jørgensen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427112339	Thank you. We also take a very positive view of this proposal. As we have also suggested in the past, there are a large number of areas in which the possibility of repatriation can be improved. In those cases where it will succeed, it will be beneficial to the people it is about. It's a voluntary arrangement, so that means that if you feel like it and think that it can be a good thing in your life to get back to where you come from, which I think a lot of people will want; places where there has been peace, and where there may no longer be the things you fled from, it is by its very nature a good thing. That is also a good thing, I think, for a great many of the countries involved. There will often be a need for reconstruction. Of course, there is a need for all good powers. Finally, it is clear that it will also be positive for Denmark, for the time that in these years we are receiving incredibly many foreigners and therefore have some very major integration challenges. And since the number of people who are here has an impact on how easy or difficult these challenges are to meet, it is clear that this is also a factor in this context. We also support a large number of the concrete improvements contained in the proposal. We think that there will be an opportunity to regret within a framework which is now 24 months rather than 12 months, is sensible, as many may be afraid to leave otherwise. We also think that increasing the contribution itself is a good idea. Finally, we think that the demand for absolute repayment, if you regret, is necessary, because this should not, of course, be an abuseable system. So all in all, I think it is a good proposal that we support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427112536	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Integration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427112548	Thank you for the debate. For a long time it has been possible as a foreigner with a residence permit in Denmark to receive financial support to return voluntarily to his country of origin, first as part of the general social policy and then as a strengthened effort in the repatriation law itself. The redeployment scheme is an important element of the integration policy pursued by the government, understood in the sense that we must provide protection to those who need it, and we must help them during the period they need protection, but at the same time it is also important that those who want to try to return to their country of origin, when the country's development allows, have the best possible framework for this. We must give the foreigners who go around with a desire to perhaps return to their country of origin the best conditions for being able to take a position on this and perhaps also decide on repatriation, and we do so by further improving and strengthening the repatriation system. However, the new measures will only work if the relevant people are aware of the possibilities, and we will therefore strengthen the municipalities' focus on repatriation. I believe that voluntary repatriation can be a very good solution for many. This applies both to refugees, where the circumstances in the country of origin now allow them to actually return and continue the life they had before, and to immigrants who have been many years in Denmark and who may now have a desire to spend their old age with the family in their home country. Finally, we should not be blind to the fact that in Danish society today there is a residual group of foreigners who are without education, who are without jobs and outside society, and who either cannot or have a desire to be integrated and become part of Danish society. For them too, a future in the homeland can be a better alternative than a continued existence on the outer edge of Danish society. It is therefore important for the municipalities to have their eyes open to the opportunities offered by the Return Act and also to provide the opportunities available. Government policy is based on a desire to reward municipalities that make a special effort. It can be a special effort to get unemployed people into work or a special effort to learn Danish and to be well integrated. It is now only natural that municipalities that make special efforts in the area of repatriation should also be rewarded for this. The result grant is therefore targeted at the municipalities that carry out the task and thus have the cost of providing good and objective advice in the area of repatriation. We know that considerations such as: health costs and children's schooling have a bearing on the decision to repatriate. Better health insurance for a longer period will mean that they will feel safe in their choice to repatriate, and increased support for health insurance will contribute to more elderly people being repatriated and spending their old age in their country of origin, and it is quite natural, moreover, as parents, to want their children to receive an education. With the possibility of receiving financial support for continuing schooling in the home country, more people will have the opportunity to continue their schooling in the home country, and this can facilitate the transition from Denmark to the home country so that the family has a real chance of re-establishing itself. I believe that repatriation can be a good and proper opportunity for many, but at the same time, of course, I am not blind to the fact that there can be people who will try to achieve a financial gain through repatriation without perhaps having a real desire to stay at home. We therefore propose that an absolute refund be introduced for those who regret repatriation and return to Denmark. There may be many different reasons for regretting repatriation and, of course, I would also like to make it clear here that I do not believe in any way that anyone who applies the right of withdrawal does so in an attempt to abuse the system. However, there is a potential risk of the scheme being abused, and I would, of course, like to prevent that. In addition, it is only right and proper that if you have received money for the purpose of returning to your home country, but then you regret it and return to Denmark again, then of course you have to pay the money back. On the basis of what we have discussed here today, and of which I also feel there is a great deal of support, I thank you for the debate and look forward to the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427113105	Thank you. There is one point from Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427113109	Thank you, Minister. What puzzles me is that this system of results is being proposed in direct contradiction with what the KL itself thinks. I would really like to hear the Minister's comments on the proposal for a scheme to which the KL has already said no in 2011 and which they are now doing again. What are the Minister's thoughts on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170427113136	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427113137	It is, of course, that exactly as I mentioned, we reward the municipalities in a number of areas where we want to promote our policy. It could be getting refugees into work and getting the long-term unemployed into work, and it could be getting refugees to learn something better Danish. When you as a municipality make an extra effort and you have an increased focus on an area, it also costs something, and of course you also have to be rewarded for it. I think it's best to do that with an arrangement like this one.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427113203	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427113205	I have a follow-up question in this regard. For KL also writes that they take note of the fact that there is probably a political majority in the Danish Parliament in favour of it, and one must then acknowledge that there is a "and they assume that the financial consequences here are then negotiated with KL. So can the Minister elaborate on whether to negotiate it with KL and how to implement it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170427113230	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427113231	After all, it has been proposed that it is part of the block subsidy and that the money is taken from there.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427113238	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427113251	The debate is open, and that is Mr. Dan Jørgensen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427113309	Thank you. In the Social Democratic Party, we believe that the best way to integrate is and remains to become part of a working community through a workplace, where the crucial thing is not so much where you come from, but whether you are lifting the task and taking it on. Therefore, we also think it makes sense that our Danish education in this country should be organised in such a way that as many refugees and immigrants as possible become familiar with the labour market as soon as possible. This was the aim of the tripartite agreement on integration, and it is also a goal that we support and maintain with the agreement on more business-oriented Danish education for adults that we are implementing with the bill here. It is an agreement that we have concluded to finance the abolition of the PSO scheme, and thus, above all, an agreement that aims to make Danish education more effective. For the Social Democratic Party, it is therefore essential that the government has made it very clear, as the draft law also shows, that, overall, the measures will not go beyond the final level of education. So there is no question of immigrants learning less Danish. On the other hand, we have made Danish education more efficient and financed part of the green transition. On that basis, we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427113422	Thank you. And then it's sir. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427113432	Thank you. The bill contains a number of adjustments to the Danish education for foreigners, among others. initial training in employment-oriented language skills, a rock card for Danish education for foreign workers and students and a change in the rules on reimbursement for municipal expenditure on language teaching. As Mr. Dan Jørgensen also said, this helps to finance the abolition of the PRS tax. It is the implementation of an agreement between the government, the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party, the Radical Left and the Socialist People's Party, and, as I said, with the bill, we will save a greater amount of integration effort, and that is positive, as society has wasted a great deal of money on various integration programmes over the years. The bill means that the government will save approx. 200 million kr. a year, when it is fully phased in, and we in the Danish People's Party consider this to be quite reasonable. The draft law also introduces demands for inter-municipal agreements in the temporary housing of refugees in another municipality, and I am sure that some municipalities will be happy with that part of the agreement, but on the whole that part of the bill does not make the big difference in the real world. But that's okay, and we can also support that part. Overall, the Danish People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427113541	Thank you. There are no comments. Then it's mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427113556	Thank you. With this proposal, the government wants to introduce a number of new measures that will strengthen foreigners' access to the Danish labour market, and this will make our new fellow citizens both more independent and more self-supporting. The proposal contains initiatives to give foreigners better access to Danish education and to strengthen local authorities' cooperation in the field of integration • initiatives that are absolutely central if we are to strengthen integration, and we must do so. When you as a foreigner come to Denmark, it is absolutely crucial that you get started quickly with Danish teaching. Being able to speak the Danish language is therefore an essential condition for one to be integrated into Danish society, for one to be able to get a job at a Danish workplace, and for one to eventually become self-supporting. The Government has therefore also proposed with this bill to establish a new start-up education for foreigners and to make Danish education into adult foreigners more entrepreneurial. These are key initiatives in the fight to strengthen integration. That is why I am also extremely pleased that several parties have supported our agreement on more business-oriented Danish education for adult foreigners, of which this bill is, of course, a coinage. In addition, the draft law also contains proposals aimed at increasing cooperation between municipalities in the field of integration. If we are to carry out the tasks of integration, municipalities need to learn from each other's experiences, both the good ones and the bad ones, so that each municipality is even better equipped to solve the integration tasks. The proposal will therefore make it compulsory for municipalities to engage in regional cooperation in the field of integration. I welcome the fact that, with this proposal, the government is strengthening the access of foreigners to Danish education, but also that the municipalities are being considered so that the municipalities can together increase integration. The Left therefore supports this bill, which, overall, will contribute to the rapid entry of foreigners into the Danish labour market and can become self-supporting.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427113802	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427113811	Danish education for refugees and immigrants is extremely important for integration into our society. I think everyone agrees on this, both for the sake of Danish society and also for the sake of the individual who comes here. It is very difficult to become part of Denmark, to become part of the labour market, to keep up with children's schooling and to understand what is being said in the news etc. etc., if you don't speak Danish. We are certainly not in the Enhedslisten refusing to look again at the rules in this area, because experience has shown that there is definitely room for improvement. Some of the principles of this bill, for example. The introduction of a rock map model seems to us to be a very good idea. The starting point for the bill is that the Danish education area must provide funding for the abolition of the PRS tax. In other words, the starting point is to cut back. I think there is reason to be critical of whether the quality of Danish education can really be improved by cutting again. At the same time, I would like to say that in the Enhedslisten we ourselves have been involved in cutting quite significantly in this area in the past. In fact, I think that it was done in a way that created a smarter Danish education system, even cheaper, but whether or not it has succeeded in this process, I am in doubt. There is room for improvement in the field of Danish education, yes. I also think there's room for improvement in this bill. When you read the consultation answers, you see that several people point out that the cutting-card model that is being proposed and the deposit system are too bureaucratic and inflexible. Exactly the bureaucracy and flexibility of the individual student's ability to pool his or her own education is one of the things we want to ask about in connection with the examination of this bill. In addition, the Institute for Human Rights points out that the rules may involve indirect discrimination against women who may get into trouble if they take maternity leave. In this context, it does not really reassure us when the Ministry assures us in the consultation note that the target group often does not have more maternity leave within the five-year period. I would also like to say that when the debate in general emphasizes how important it is for refugees and immigrants to learn Danish, we find it rather paradoxical that this bill reduces the training requirement for teachers. If you want to raise the quality of Danish education to refugees and immigrants, I think it is in the wrong direction to open up shorter education to teachers. Overall, this is a legislative proposal which, after the consultation process, we believe in the Enhedslisten, continues to stand in a slightly different direction. I think there are a number of unanswered questions, among others. As I have said, bureaucracy, the possibility of taking maternity leave and the level of training for teachers, which means that we have not finally taken a position on the proposal, but will do so in connection with the treatment. We have a number of questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427114148	Thank you. Mrs. Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427114153	This bill introduces a more labour market-oriented Danish education for newly arrived foreigners. One of the biggest challenges likely to be faced as a new entry to the labour market is language. For a great many companies it is crucial that an employee can commit himself in Danish, but also for the individual it is crucial for the social at a workplace, that you can communicate with your colleagues. More vocationally oriented Danish education not only strengthens the individual's ability to become an active part of the labour market, but also increases the incentive and motivation by providing them with tools that they can actively use in their application process. Finally, the draft law provides for a clip card scheme and provides for a deposit for, among other things: workers and students. These are measures to reduce the dropout of Danish education. The introduction of this system will increase the motivation of the students and, at the same time, give them a greater degree of flexibility in order to be able to plan their teaching, for example. during periods when they are busy with work or study. These are all initiatives that will equip the individual to move more quickly into the labour market for the benefit of both employment and integration, and in those words, the Liberal Alliance supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427114309	Thank you. Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427114315	Thank you. Bill L 175 is a proposal for more business-oriented Danish education for adult foreigners. With this bill, the Minister wants to make Danish education more employment-oriented, among other things. by paying particular attention to the oral part of the beginner's education. The alternative is a good idea, and we would like to commend the Minister for that. Unfortunately, I cannot support the bill for three main reasons. First of all, we believe that the downgrading of the availability ceiling from 76,000 to 36.000 DKK. the municipalities' expenditure on integration programmes will have inappropriate consequences for Danish education as well as for employment efforts. This funding should also be used to abolish the PSO tax, and we have not been involved in that agreement. We think it's the wrong place to pick up the money for that deal. The Minister's purpose in the downgrading of the availability ceiling is to create incentives for municipalities to streamline Danish education. We are of the opinion that there is a risk that this will have a bad impact on the integration effort as a whole, because the ceiling for the entire integration programme, in which the other employment effort is included, will be cut, and that is why this draft law is in danger of hitting it. Secondly, we are opposed to the removal of all state refunds for Danish education for foreign workers and students. We are not of the opinion that this will lead to increased efficiency, but we would like to be involved in discussing what can improve Danish education. That goes without saying. Thirdly, we are opposed to the requirement for a deposit for foreign workers and students. We believe that it is too bureaucratic and that it will entail an unnecessary administrative burden. In conclusion, I would like to stress that in the alternative, we support the Government's ambition to make the labour market more open to our new fellow citizens, which is why we have among other things. also supported the tripartite agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427114533	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427114539	Thank you. Language is an essential part of our cohesion. The language is also one of the most important ways to become part of our society, of Danish society and to understand Danes and Danish culture. That is not the only way, because there is also a great deal that we never say anything about, which we should also understand. But this agreement is about the language and about Danish teaching. It must first and foremost target Danish education for adult foreigners, so that it is more closely linked to employment efforts, because we know that it is the interaction that makes learning the most fastest. A cutting map system is also introduced so that Danish education can take place more flexibly, and then the goal is also that municipalities and language schools and job centres do not operate in separate silo, but in context, for the benefit of the individual, first and foremost, but also for Danish society. The Radical Left is part of the agreement to abolish the PSO, from which this bill also arises. I also think that Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur asked a number of relevant questions, to which I hope the Minister can answer, and addressed some details which I actually hope we in the circle and the Minister will be open to look at, because it is really crucial that we get an unbureaucratic and good Danish education for adult foreigners. Specifically, of course, we must take account of the fact that women and men have children along the way and that it must be possible to take the maternity leave that you are entitled to, like everyone else, during the course of Danish education. So I hope so. But there is clear support from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427114759	Thank you. Sir. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427114809	We also support the bill. It follows logically from the fact that we are in the agreement that is behind this bill, which is indeed an expiry of the PSP agreement, but there are also some independent qualities in the agreement that make this an excellent legislative proposal. Making Danish education more business-oriented is actually very, very sensible, and we are absolutely convinced that it will raise the quality of Danish education for foreigners, so we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427114855	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427114907	Language is important, language is the key to Danish society, language is an important prerequisite for gaining a foothold in the labour market, and language is central to successful integration. That is why we in the Conservative People's Party believe that there are a great many sensible initiatives in this draft law that will enable newly arrived refugees to enter the labour market quickly in practice and thus learn the language. We'll back that up. I am not going to repeat everything that the other rapporteurs have said, but all in all the sensible initiatives we support are those that we support.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427114951	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427115001	Thank you for the debate on this bill. The Danish language is essential for working at the workplace, at school, at the sports club, yes, also at the supermarket. Therefore, it is important that all foreigners living and living in Denmark can become active contributors and citizens in the labour market and society in general. Danish education is not an end in itself. It is, on the other hand, an important means of integrating, which is why it must also be clearly targeted, for example. employment. This was also confirmed in both the two and the tripartite agreements in spring 2016, which form the basis of the draft law. And in November 2016, a broad circle of parties agreed to carry out a reform of Danish education so that it will be much more business-oriented than it is today, and I would like to sign for that. The bill ensures a Danish education for adult foreigners, where employment is more in focus and where the interaction with companies is strengthened. It is a Danish education where simplification and flexibility in the organisation are key words. Common to all initiatives in the bill is that they do not change the quality of Danish education. Danish education must continue to lead up to the level of the final Danish exams that apply today, and that is the basic premise. The initiatives in the bill have a specific focus on the fact that Danish education is more labour market-oriented and interacts with the company-oriented efforts under the integration programme; that the companies that are interested in providing training for foreign employees are given opportunities for it; that the municipal Danish education offer is organised and becomes more efficient and economical; and that the students complete the Danish education without undue apostasy and absence. Finally, the draft law proposes the temporary accommodation of refugees in other municipalities. The proposal is the implementation of a parliamentary decision, namely B 19, which we agreed on in December last year, and which means that in future municipalities will only be able to accommodate refugees in temporary residences in another municipality if this municipality agrees. Some of the elements of the bill have given cause for concern as well as criticism. This is true, for example. the proposal to introduce an average hourly limit of 15 hours per week for foreigners covered by the integration programme. Here I would like to refer to an important conclusion in the analysis of Danish education which, among other things, includes: The draft law is based on the fact that there are municipalities offering more teaching hours than there are educational benefits from. Not only is it a waste of resources, but it is also a waste of important time in the integration process, time that the individual foreigner could have spent instead on jobs and training courses at companies or something else relevant. Then it is important to remember that the bill also includes that the municipal council may derogate from the hourly ceiling if the language centre considers that a student needs several hours, for example. Because of dyslexia. The part of the bill, which relates respectively to the reduction and abolition of the State reimbursement of the municipalities' expenditure on Danish education, has also raised questions as to whether it will reduce not only the Danish education offer, but the entire employment-oriented effort and integration efforts in general. However, analysis shows that it is possible to reduce expenditure in this area without reducing quality. That is clear, among other things. clearly from the analyses that there is no correlation between cost and quality in language centres. In this context, it is also important to stress that, overall, of course, the municipalities continue to be compensated through the block grant for their costs of Danish education. For example, the proposal to introduce cutting-edge cards and deposits for workers and students has. Both aim to reduce both apostasy and absence. It has been criticised that the right to extend Danish education, for example. In the case of maternity leave, it is therefore important to bear in mind that these are foreigners who, as a rule, reside in Denmark for shorter periods, and with the flexibility introduced into the cutting-card model, a student has the opportunity to pause for up to 11⁄2 years within the five-year training period laid down. The reform's initiatives concerning the abolition of the requirement for higher education for teachers and Danish education and the establishment of a shorter pedagogy are not included in the bill itself. It will, on the other hand, be implemented administratively by means of a notice subsequently. I would, however, like to comment briefly on the criticisms that have been made of precisely these proposals. First of all, it should be stressed that there will, of course, continue to be requirements for teachers' professional qualifications in Danish education. What is new is that more emphasis will be placed on practical pedagogical skills in teacher training, including in the final assessment of his or her qualifications. A working group has now been set up to propose the content of a pedagogy course for teachers in Danish education, and it is a working group with representatives of universities, professional colleges, language centres and ministries, as well as resource professionals with special insight into Danish as a second language and adult education. So I have no doubt that the result will be a training which is both more practical and which also has a high level of professionalism. I think that must also be a wish of all of us. I look forward to the further consideration of the draft law and the debate that may come either today or during the committee's proceedings.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427115708	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed. Then we'll take a lunch break till 2:00 a.m. 13.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427130000	The sitting is resumed. The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Dan Jørgensen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427130026	Thank you. The bill translates part of the 2017 Finance Law Agreement on reinforced control and security efforts in the field of aliens, allowing authorities to better record, store and process biometric data on aliens for identification and identity checks. We believe that it is absolutely essential that our authorities have the necessary and effective tools to determine and control the identity of foreigners, and that is why social democracy can also support the bill as it has been put forward. The retention of biometric data such as fingerprints and personal photos could ensure against the use of dual identities, against the misuse and sale of residence cards and against falsified identity documents. And so confidence that a foreigner's identity is actually the right one will be strengthened overall. That is why we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427130122	Thank you to the rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427130128	Thank you. The draft law, as has just been mentioned, is part of the implementation of the 2017 Financial Law Agreement on reinforced foreign control and security efforts. And it is, we in the Danish People's Party believe, a sensible bill that addresses something that the Danish Parliament and changing governments have taken far too long to tackle: the extensive fraud that is taking place with foreign documents and EU papers and identity theft in the whole area of immigration. The proposal should give the authorities better opportunities to record, store and process data such as fingerprints and personal photos for the purposes of identifying and verifying the identity of aliens. The new tools will include: could be used by the immigration authorities, the state administration and the police. The proposal acts, inter alia, on: to create better opportunities for involving information from other cases in the handling of decisions in the field of aliens, and these measures will not make the problems disappear, but the draft law will provide the authorities with more tools so that they can do their work even more thoroughly than is the case today. The draft law also means that the police and the immigration authorities will be able to take fingerprints in cases where there is no complete certainty as to the identity of a foreigner for the purpose of verifying the identity of the person concerned, and in practice this will give the police and authorities the opportunity to check whether a foreigner provides correct information on his or her identity, as well as for example. The Refugee Board will have the opportunity to check whether it is the right foreigner who will appear before the Refugee Board to deal with an asylum case. That is obvious common sense. The police and the authorities will thus be able to check with this proposal whether the correct foreigner has appeared for interviews, interviews and meetings, and it will be easier to check whether it is the right foreigner who has come before us, for example. to receive benefits from the public authorities. We also strengthen the ability of the State Administration to verify the authenticity of EU documents which are, in some cases, misused to obtain residence in Denmark. This is an issue that the Danish People's Party has raised in the past, because there is a great deal of fraud going on in this area. At least it is my impression that it is possible to discuss whether the bill goes far enough, but at least it is going in the right direction. It is also positive that it will be easier to confiscate or confiscate mobile phones and the like in order to better assess the value of the allegations made by the asylum seeker and, moreover, something that the Danish People's Party has also called for in the past. However, there is reason to criticise the government's insistence that a court order or consent should be required before the authorities can confiscate a mobile phone. An authority person should be able to decide on the spot without having to involve others in the process. Having said that, however, there is also an improvement on this point. Of course, the measures in the bill can also help to make it more difficult to live as an illegal immigrant in Denmark, and there is also a need for action in this area, one can safely say. All in all, it is a good bill, and since the Danish People's Party is in the financial law agreement, we support the proposal, and we are very much in favour of further work in order to assess whether there is a need elsewhere in the systems for even better tools to keep an eye on the far too many foreigners who, in our view, come to our country. Then I have a question for the Minister... I might as well take that now. Following the bill, the police can process the fingerprinting and person photos in connection with checks in the field of aliens. But the police cannot, on the basis of this bill, search the register when they find a fingerprint at a crime scene. And we in the Danish People's Party think that when you create that register and you can keep this information and there will be easier access, it would be perfectly obvious that, as part of the ordinary investigation, if you find a fingerprint at a crime scene, you have the opportunity to go in and search that register. And then the question is whether the government will not be prepared to open it up.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427130510	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Left. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427130518	With the bill we are now discussing, the authorities will be given wider opportunities to carry out identity checks with foreigners coming to Denmark. It is primarily about the possibility of using and storing what we call biometric data, i.e. fingerprints and photos that they can be stored in the immigration authorities' register. And with that tool, the authorities are better equipped to establish the identity of foreigners. The new possibilities for recording and storing and processing biometric data are necessary. In many asylum cases, the applicant is often completely without identification documents, which makes the whole process problematic, difficult and, in some cases, unsolvable. Because it can be difficult to piece together an identity based on appearance, explanations and perhaps even false papers. So there is simply a need for new and better tools if the authorities are to have just a reasonable chance of carrying out proper controls. We in the Left are prepared to give them these tools. Not only does it make sense to determine the identity of people, but it will also be a useful tool if foreigners come into contact with the authorities later on. A very good example of another effective tool that the bill allows is that the police are given the opportunity to confiscate documents and electronic items such as mobile phones. There is going to be a world unlike the current procedure in which the identification of identity is often only determined on the basis of a conversation with the applicant. I would like to acknowledge that these are far-reaching powers, and very many changes have been made to the consultation process. And I have also noted that some of the consultation answers are critical, but the authorities will have to keep up with the challenges that Denmark faces. We must and must take care of who is staying in this country. We can't live with the fact that we don't know who it is. And with the government bill, we are going to give the authorities a better framework for carrying out their task, and that is why the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427130735	Thank you. Then we move on to Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427130742	This proposal is, after all, part of a financial agreement that includes the current government parties and the Danish People's Party. It is rare to see so many clarifications and amendments from the draft law which has been submitted to consultation to the bill which ends up being put forward in the Folketing. The government seems to have tried to go as far as possible in terms of recording biometric data and storing them as far as possible, but it seems that some unusually sharp remarks have been made in the hearings from among others. Data Protection Agency. The final bill then reduced the retention time for biometric data from the 30 years originally proposed to 10 to 20 years. It is still a very long time to store biometric data for people who have done nothing criminally. It is clear, however, that the draft law has clearly become less bad, it might be said, of the consultation phase that has been going on. The Enhedslist is certainly not opposed to the use of biometric data to some extent, but we still think, despite the many changes and clarifications, that the bill here goes far too far in relation to the very long-term storage and extensive processing of biometric data. As I said, it is important to bear in mind that these people have, as a starting point, done nothing criminally, which is what the Institute for Human Rights, the Data Protection Agency, Danish Refugee Aid etc. also points out in the consultation responses. So one small parenthesis: when we are increasingly using biometrics, I think there is reason to mention that in the Enhedslist we regularly get inquiries from refugees in family reunification cases, where the family of resident refugees has been met with some far-reaching bureaucratic obstacles when they had to give biometrics in the country in which they are left. If such systems are to work here and you want to respect the unity of the family, we need to ensure that biometric data can also be included in countries where Denmark does not have its own embassy, for example. through cooperation with the embassies of other Nordic and European countries. But it was a pathetic remark. To the specific legislative proposal: even with the changes that clearly do better as a result of the consultation process, we cannot vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427131021	Thank you to the rapporteur. Next is Mrs. Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427131028	Thank you. It is essential for the Danish authorities that they are able to correctly identify people who come to Denmark, for example. to seek asylum. However, this identification is made more difficult when, for example, asylum seekers come to the country without identity documents or, in some cases, directly give up a false identity in order to obtain rights that they would otherwise not be entitled to. In such cases, the authorities use a number of tools to establish their true identity, including: biometric data such as fingerprints and personal photos are collected. The problem is that today these data can only be stored temporarily and only used for specific purposes. The bill allows the authorities to use biometric data to a much greater extent than they do today, while at the same time saving the data for up to 20 years. This will give the authorities a much better basis for deciding on specific cases. The Liberal Alliance therefore supports the bill, as it gives the authorities better opportunities to make a correct decision in foreign cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427131133	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427131138	Thank you. L 188, which we are dealing with here, is a change to the Aliens Act to increase the use of biometrics, i.e. to take fingerprints and person photography etc., and the aim is to give the authorities better opportunity to record, store and process biometric data from aliens for the purposes of identification and identity checks. The alternative clearly recognises the right and legitimate need of the authorities to know and control the identity of foreigners entering Denmark and staying in Denmark. As the Enhedslisten's rapporteur said, there has been some criticism in the hearings, it has to be said. I also recognise that attempts have been made to organise, but we still see the proposed measures here as too far-reaching and unnecessary and therefore not reasonable in relation to the stated purpose. After all, the dilemma is that the individual's right to privacy stopped against the government's need to know and control the identity of foreigners. The question which one has to put oneself in this draft law is whether the intervention that one intends to take is necessary and whether it is proportionate to the stated purpose. That's where we answer "no" in the alternative. I simply believe that there are too many ambiguities in the arguments and that the Ministry's arguments on the proportionality ratio are not sufficient, and I hope the Minister will clarify this a little in his speech and address that point. Depending on how many words the Minister uses in his speech, that is one of the things I would like to go ahead with in committee in order to get the Ministry's explanation that proportionality is in order, because I do not think it is. In addition, the Data Protection Agency is also very critical, and I recognise that data storage has been reduced from 30 years to 20 years, but again this goes far beyond what is needed, namely that foreigners who are also on tourist visas must have their data stored for 20 years. In addition, the proposals here are very intrusive and there is a difference between how to treat Danish citizens in relation to foreigners. Then there is the second part of the bill, which is to allow the immigration authorities to withdraw information from other cases or to cooperate with asylum cases as well as to involve electronic media if the authorities consider it necessary. There I find it problematic that we should not ask for consent, because this is very sensitive information and that we can do so, even if there is no concrete presumption that the items in question will have an impact on the information of the case. Against this background, I cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427131455	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Alternative. Then it is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427131504	Thank you. As a number of previous rapporteurs have pointed out, this is a legislative proposal with more corrections and clarifications than I have seen before, but that obviously means that some of the consultation answers have been listened to. In particular, the Data Protection Agency has even been very critical in their hearing response. I do not think that is normal here, so I see that as quite extraordinary. So it is a good thing that some adjustments have been made and some changes have also been made, but it is also an expression of legislation on something that can be extremely difficult to see through. I therefore continue to take note of the very wide-ranging criticism in the hearings. The retention of data in general and biometric data, i.e. very personal data, photos, fingerprints, must always be extremely careful, in my view and in the view of the Radical Left. It is, of course, the balance between storing data on a lot of people, a lot of registration, and then, on the other hand, being sure that the day you need exactly the data on a single person, you have it. That is the balance that we in a free society of justice must constantly be aware of. We are also in the Radical Left, as previously expressed, not on the basis of the retention of biometric data, but as the bill now appears, where it is very extensive without consent, and also the discrimination, in relation to how we store data on Danish citizens, and so the very, very long period that data is stored for people who are not under suspicion of anything, we believe that we should be very careful about that. As it looks, we believe that this bill is too comprehensive, goes too far and has an excessively long retention period, and that is why we are at least opposed to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427131739	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next one is sir. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427131752	We certainly believe that there is good reason why we want to have more control over and more control over those who cross the country's borders. That is why it is perfectly legitimate for us to discuss how we can have better control of it in the future too. As a starting point, SF has sympathy for the intentions of this bill, but, as others have said, we need to constantly assess whether it is proportional to what we have to achieve and what it means in terms of legal certainty and the other disadvantages that may be with it. And here we are talking about some biometric data being archived over many years, not as many as had originally been proposed, but still quite many years. There is a right to remove mobile phones which are co-processing of cases. It may be that these are necessary tools to deal with the issues that need to be dealt with here, but we are now, as a starting point, a little sceptical about this, and therefore there must be good arguments in committee for us to be able to support it here. So we're not totally dismissive, but we're quite skeptical about this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427131928	Thank you. Then we've reached Mr. Knox. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427131934	It is important for a country and a country's sovereignty to know who comes into the country and settles and has access to it. Therefore, defining the identity of foreigners is an important part of the work of the authorities in relation to who should be given access to Denmark. Sometimes identity identification may pose significant challenges for our authorities, especially in asylum cases, where some asylum seekers either come without identity documents or passports or come with false documents. The draft law here makes it possible to strengthen the control and security efforts in this area by giving the authorities better opportunities to record, preserve and process biometric data, i.e.: fingerprints and person photographs for identification and identity checks. According to the proposal, the immigration authorities and the police may also take fingerprints and photographing persons of foreigners, if deemed appropriate for the purposes of identity checks. We think that is very, very sensible. At the same time, the draft law will also have an impact on the performance of other authorities, including, for example: in relation to the control of the payment of social benefits and the detection of social fraud. Another element is also to come in and look at DNA in connection with family reunification cases. All in all, we think that these are excellent elements in the legislative proposal which are important for the security of our country. The Conservative People's Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427132131	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then we have reached the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427132146	Thank you to the rapporteurs for receiving the bill here and the debate. Let me start by stating that, as has also been said, the overall aim of the draft law is to strengthen controls in the field of foreigners. In recent times there have been stories that, unfortunately, in some cases it has been possible for foreigners to stay illegally in Denmark. And that is, of course, totally unacceptable, because it is crucial that we have control over who is staying in Denmark, and the identification of aliens' identity is therefore an important part of the immigration authorities' proceedings. In addition, foreigners who are present in this country and have an unknown background and identity may potentially pose a security risk and a crime challenge that we have to face. The draft law is therefore, in all its simplicity, about providing the authorities with valuable tools to keep a better track of which foreigners enter and stay in Denmark, and this is the possibility of using biometric data to determine first and foremost the specific identity of a foreigner and thus to be able to post-check the identity if the person comes into contact with the authorities again. The draft law provides for the authorities to record and use and keep a foreigner's fingerprints and personal photograph in the registers of the immigration authorities to a greater extent than at present. The reason for the draft law is that, in cases where biometrics are already being recorded today, a legal basis is created for the authorities to use this biometrics for purposes other than today, namely identification and identity checks. We provide the authorities with a comprehensive register of fingerprints and personal photographs of foreigners in Denmark. This means, for example, that the authorities will be able to check whether a foreigner is actually the person he or she pretends to be. The draft law will therefore in particular increase the use of biometrics in the field of aliens by changing what the biometrics can be used for and how long it can be stored. A register is needed where biometric data on foreigners can be stored longer than at present if the authorities are to be able to identify and control the identity of foreigners, even in the longer term. The bill therefore ensures that fingerprints and photographing of foreigners can be kept for 20 years or for 10 years if the alien is granted a residence permit. With the bill, the government will ensure that in future the authorities will be able to carry out more effective identification and identity checks in the field of aliens, and perhaps in other areas too, for example in the fight against social fraud in the municipal area. The draft law also contains a number of other elements. It is proposed that, in a number of categories of cases in the field of aliens, the Foreigners' Board and the Refugee Board should be able to decide, without the consent of the alien, to withdraw information from other cases and to decide that two or more cases should be dealt with and decided together if the information given to the case so requires. The draft law also proposes that the police should be able to take documents and items such as: mobile telephones having an impact on the information of the case in custody, if deemed necessary. The aim of these two elements of the draft law is that a foreigner's case should be decided on the basis of as much information as possible. Today, cases are often settled solely on the basis of the applicant's own explanation. This is not appropriate and the draft law must therefore strengthen case information in the field of foreigners. Finally, I would just like to mention that the draft law proposes clarification of the provisions of the Aliens Act on requirements for DNA testing in relation to family reunification. This means that it will be apparent directly from the provision that there must also be a requirement to participate in a DNA study in order to determine whether there is a family relationship other than that provided by the applicant. It can, for example, be done. in the case of an application for a marriage, but where the immigration authorities have a concrete suspicion that the persons concerned are actually siblings. In conclusion, there is only one thing left to thank the rapporteurs for the discussion we have had so far, and I look forward to the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427132701	It gave rise to a single question from Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427132705	Thank you. In my speech I emphasized the principle of proportionality, that is to say, on the one hand, that we would like to have the opportunity to do this, which I also recognise the need for and so the opportunities we offer to the authorities, among other things. retention of data for up to 20 years, which, of course, gets criticism in the hearing answers for being really, really long. Can the Minister elaborate on the question of whether the principle of proportionality has in fact been respected in this draft law?
ParlaMint-DK_20170427132735	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427132736	In other words, there is no doubt that I believe that the principle of proportionality has been respected here. Because it must be a question of keeping track of who is entering and leaving the country, and it is indeed the case that it will change if you are granted a residence permit. Then it is only for a 10-year period that the information will be stored. But, for me, it is quite fundamental to see it as something important, and I also hear that recognition from the alternative rapporteur, in other words, that we need to have better and more control over who is entering and leaving the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427132814	Would you like to make another comment?
ParlaMint-DK_20170427132820	Yes, please. Thank you for your answer. What, then, about confiscating electronic media, that is to say, that there should not even be a concrete presumption? After all, I think we usually have that in our community of law, that is, if the police are to be given access, there is usually a court order. If that is not the case, then there must at least be a concrete presumption of something, but it is not in this draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427132855	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427132856	Again, it has been the case in a number of cases in the past that the applicant's explanation had to be decided, while evidence has been found right in front of him which could not be used. And there I think it is only right and proper to include it. It must be the case that every case must be disclosed in the best possible manner and not just on the part of one party. And that is what has been the case so far, that is to say, it has been the things that come from the applicant's side that we have had to deal with, and not the evidence that might otherwise be in the form of, for example. cell phones and other things.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427132934	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427132950	The debate is open, and it is first the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427133021	Thank you. The government wants us to be able to attract skilled workers in Denmark, and I therefore regret that the proposers are now again trying to tighten up the rules for companies and for workers only a year after the last tightening of the rules. Honestly, I do not really understand what the background is and what the problem is that we are trying to solve here. It's hard to see the winners in this proposal, but it's very easy to see that Danish companies and thus Danish growth and prosperity are the losers. We need a two-legged immigration policy. Denmark must have a strict and consistent foreign policy towards refugees and migrants, but at the same time we must be open to foreigners who can and will work and who will contribute to our society. Danish companies must be able to cope with international competition, and this requires companies to be able to recruit highly qualified and skilled employees, including across national borders. This bill undoubtedly makes it harder for both companies that lack skilled labour and for the skilled people who want to contribute to Danish society and to Danish growth. And we know that there is a shortage of skilled labour in Denmark, for example. in the IT business. We also know that this bill includes: will hit IT people who use the money system to a greater extent as access to the Danish labour market. I note that the Social Democratic Party recognises that there is a shortage of qualified labour in this country, and the Social Democracy is therefore among other things. I think we should also make a rather curious proposal on Danish job centres in southern Europe. I am therefore quite frankly surprised that the Social Democrats are contributing to a bill that makes the shortage of skilled labour even greater. The Social Democratic Party claims that this is social dumping, but where is the actual evidence that the amount system is used for social dumping? If you want to use that argument, I actually think you owe it to prove your claim. And is it really not a bit crazy to call it social dumping if you earn at least more than DKK 400 000? per year and reaches 70%. In fact, of the foreigners who have come here on the system of amounts, more than DKr 450,000 is earned. A year? And it's even without a pension. Is that really what Social Democracy calls social dumping? And what is it now that the social democracy definition is about social dumping? I certainly wouldn't have thought it was when you made $50,000. A year, frankly! It is also true that, according to the recent study by the Ministry of Finance, there is a net gain in the form of DKK 84,000. to the public finances in Denmark per year, when we take figures from 2014 and look at who it is that contributes to getting here, and it is people who come from Western countries who come here and contribute positively. Everyone agrees that foreigners as well as Danish citizens must work on the usual terms and conditions of employment. It is therefore also a requirement, in order to obtain a residence permit under the system of amounts, for employment to be carried out under normal pay and working conditions. They are highly educated, where in many industries it is a normal part of the pay package that employees are given free car, telephone or the like. This applies to foreign workers as well as to Danish workers, and frankly I find it very difficult to understand why foreign workers should be placed at a disadvantage in this respect than their Danish colleagues, and why we now have to make it as bureaucratic as possible that they get an appointment here in Denmark and that we get skilled foreigners here. I find it very difficult to see the fairness of the Folketing going in and deciding how employers should pay their employees. And if anyone thinks that free car and telephone or something like that is the most reprehensible way of paying off at all, then, I think, we have a good tradition that otherwise it is left to the social partners. The proposers argue that the bill, by requiring payment of wages in Denmark, should help to combat offences, and therefore it will also make it extremely bureaucratic for all employers to hire foreigners a little on the basis of the same logic as if they were fighting shoplifting by setting up barriers in front of all supermarkets. I acknowledge then that there may be employers who try to cheat and try to circumvent the rules, but I am fully confident that the vast majority of employers in Denmark comply with the rules and want to comply with the rules. And does this bill even help those who want to cheat? Frankly, I don't think it does. I do not think that we should legislate on the basis of the few who may be trying to cheat when, like this, it will actually hit the large majority, which has pure flour in the bag and when it can harm the Danish welfare state. Instead, I think that we should look at how to combat infringements of the rules without making life too bad for employers who do not cheat. I also have to ask the proposers whether they really have imagined that the requirement for cash payout in this country should apply to the entire salary regardless of the wage level, or whether the bill only includes wages up to the minimum amount of DKr 408.800. Or should it really be the case that a top manager with a salary on the good side of 1 million. kr. is not allowed to have free internet access or free car as part of its pay package? That is one of the things we need to clarify afterwards, and I am, frankly, looking forward to getting an answer to that. We are facing a recovery we hope. It is essential to ensure that companies have access to the qualified workforce they need. However, this draft law will undoubtedly make it even more difficult for companies to recruit the manpower they very much lack. If companies cannot find the labour force here in Denmark or get it easily and unbureaucratic to Denmark, then they disappear from Denmark. And why actually lay a job in Denmark if the company cannot get the necessary employee to do so? This is damaging to businesses. So, of course, the international corporations do the job abroad, and then it's not just the job that the alien possessed that disappears, no, it's all jobs that are associated with this task. It must be easy and unbureaucratic for companies to recruit foreign workers, and therefore the government is voting against this proposal. I must honestly admit that I think this is a piece of work, and I think it is deeply harmful to Danish companies. But I look forward to hearing the Social Democrats explaining this, because I have to say that it is by no means related to what else the Social Democrats claim they stand for.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427133828	Thank you, Minister. There are no brief comments, so that must be clear speech. We therefore move on to the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr President. Dan Jørgensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427133840	I am, of course, rushing up here with answers to all the questions put to the Social Democratic Party. After all, I am such a person who wants everyone to be comfortable with each other and especially people who have to work together every day, so I cannot help but be a little saddened by the thought of what it must be like to be in such a close relationship with the Danish People's Party as a support party, without apparently not being able to mention them once, even though they are also the authors of this proposal. But I can understand in some ways that one has the most confidence in the social democracy in general when it comes to solving the fundamental problems of society, so perhaps that is the explanation. On the other hand, I do not have much confidence in the government when it comes to their very general regulation of the labour market. Now that we're talking about trust, I think the government may have equal trust in all employers in this country. I fully agree that most people probably want to live up to rules and laws and support the Danish model, but unfortunately there are also some who do not want to. The government has cut control of illegal labour, and then we see that unfortunately there are very, very big problems with illegal labour. Then the government and the minister say: and Mrs Jensen out and listen to whether people speak foreign in the pizzeria as if it were going to solve the problem. The government has generally cut in the fight against social dumping, and if it is based on such a general confidence that of course no one will cheat, then I think it is sad. When we adopted the original proposal, we explained the reasons behind that discussion. We can sort of take it back. I would actually rather use a few words to explain why we have the clarification we have today. The clarification we have today has come from the fact that we promised to dig into this on the basis of some consultation answers from, among others. part of the trade union movement who said that there was experience with creative schemes in which foreigners were set off for board and lodging, as offered by employers, at a price that is not fair. It is therefore a loophole in the legislation, and that is simply what we want to get rid of, plus that we also think it is easier to get rid of this kind of thing if you pay the wages in Denmark. So that is the reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427134103	There is one brief comment, and it is from Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427134107	Thank you very much, it was a very strange speech, which dealt with everything else than the bill put forward by the Social Democrat Party. But then let me try to repeat some of the questions raised by the Minister, which Mr. Dan Jørgensen then didn't want to or couldn't answer. For example, is this a ban on paying in other than direct earnings, i.e. the value of free housing, which is quite relevant if you come as a foreigner and have to work temporarily in Denmark? If you're talking about up to this 407,000 kr, or if you have a salary of 407,000 kr, you can do it.? You can't actually read that out of this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427134155	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427134156	Now Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, that my speech is about all sorts of things other than the bill. That is actually true, but it is because I am so polite a man that I tried to reply to the Minister's speech, which was very much about the social democracy and our social spirit, and then a legislative proposal that we adopted a long time ago in this Chamber. I tried to answer that. On the very specific question, as Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen asks, we believe that it is a question of paying cash up to that amount. What goes beyond is another matter I look down at the other proposers, and I see that they nod, they agree with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427134234	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427134236	That's nice. Of course, this could have been written in the draft law at first, but it is good that we can clarify it. So let me ask you something else. Is the Social Democrat rapporteur aware that this group of people we are talking about contributes net, in other words positive, by DKK 84 000. per This is a very important point, and I would like to make it quite clear to the House that this is a very important point. kr. Every year?
ParlaMint-DK_20170427134306	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427134308	I do not know the actual figures, but I am a little surprised that the questioner in his first question blames me for talking about something other than this bill, and then he asks himself questions referring to legislation that we adopted last year. This is a clarification that is about some other things, but peace be with it now. I do not know the actual figure. I know that foreign labour is of course important to Denmark, and we have also put forward a large number of proposals on how we can strengthen the opportunities for Danish companies to have it, but we do not think that we should open up social dumping just because there are some company owners who will think that this would be a very good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427134346	Then there is a question from Mrs Laura Lindahl, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427134350	Thank you. I would also like to hear a little about the definition of social dumping by the Social Democratic Party, because I find it a little difficult to see if it is social dumping when we are talking about people who earn more than DKK 450,000. a year. So I just want to say: what is the social democracy's definition of social dumping?
ParlaMint-DK_20170427134412	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427134414	Social dumping is if you come to this country and undermine pay or working conditions, and so it can be, regardless of the amounts involved.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427134424	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427134426	But does the Social Democratic Party have any evidence that companies are using this scheme to press on wage and working conditions? Is there any evidence of that? Because we haven't seen that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427134435	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427134437	Then I would urge the rapporteur to read the consultation responses received when we passed the law last year.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427134446	The next question is Mr. Naser Khader, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427134451	I need to know if I heard it right. Does the rapporteur think that all the employees who work for Danish companies, in other words highly trained foreign workers, all those who come, are social dumpers?
ParlaMint-DK_20170427134503	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427134505	No.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427134508	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427134511	That's what was said before. I would like to ask another question. How does this proposal relate to what the Social Democratic Party is usually in favour of, namely leaving wage formation to the social partners?
ParlaMint-DK_20170427134524	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427134526	That's not what was said before. I said that if foreign labour comes and undermines Danish pay and working conditions, it is social dumping. I can say that, in relation to this legislation, it is among other things. something we have addressed at the request of the trade union movement. So that fits very well into our normal cooperation relations with the social partners.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427134550	Then we can thank the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next in line here is the rapporteur of the Left. It is because the Danish People's Party will come later. The rapporteur of the Left, Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen. Perhaps I should remind you that if you want to ask more than one question to anyone on the platform, you press back in. It is just because I have recorded that there are more who may not be fully aware of it. It's kindly the rules of the game. And then it's sir. Jan E. Jørgensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427134624	Thank you very much. A Denmark for those who can and will. That was one of the Left's electoral slogans before the 2015 elections, and these are words that we stand by to this day. But unfortunately we have to note that there is a majority in this Parliament who does not want an open Denmark for those who can and will. With the proposal here, the Social Democratic Party, the Socialist People's Party and the Danish People's Party will go in a completely different direction. The three parties will make it harder to get to Denmark, even if you can support yourself, even if you have competences that are in demand in the Danish labour market, even if you can fill a job that the company cannot otherwise get filled, even if you can create growth for a Danish company and thus growth for Denmark, you are not welcome. Foreigners who do not work are a problem for Denmark. But foreigners who work are not a problem, at least not as a starting point. But the three parties seem to think so. Specifically, the three parties propose that in future it should not be possible to include diets, lodgings, diets, free cars, free telephones, etc. the minimum amount to be earned in order to get to Denmark under the system of amounts. In addition, for some reason that is not quite clear, it will in future be necessary for the money to be paid out in Denmark. This will make it fun for large companies who want to place employees in their Danish branches. This means, therefore, that, as a foreigner in the future, we must earn significantly more than we do today if we are to hope to get to Denmark on the money system. And let me add that it will also apply to the spouses of Danish citizens who, as such, just want to live with their husband or wife and who can and will support themselves. They have to stay away unless they can now earn more than 408,000 kroner. a year in cold cash. What does that mean? This inevitably means that Danish companies will in future find it harder to pay and attract the necessary labour from abroad that they demand. Danish business is in the middle of a recovery, so these people will be needed. So it will be Danish companies and thus Danish growth that will be the major losers in such a proposal that I am particularly surprised that the Social Democratic Party is co-sponsored. In the Left, we are not in favour of this kind of proposal. Yes, we want a strict immigration policy so that we can stem the influx of asylum. The state and the municipalities must be able to keep up, but why should people who come here with the intention to help Danish companies increase their growth and thus benefit Denmark? It does not take so much political silence to see that this bill, I think we can safely say, is inspired by a dialogue with the trade union movement. In other words, it is meant as an attempt to protect against social dumping, but frankly, we are thinking of people with a salary of over 400,000 kroner. A year when we think of social dumping? You can't be serious about that. At the same time, the proposers are trying to make it a small matter that Danish companies make housing available to foreign workers. It will therefore only make it extra difficult to move to Denmark after work, if you are going to find a home yourself, and in the Left we want to make it easier, not harder, to attract foreign qualified labour. In other words, there is abuse of all systems. Of course, abuse must be severed, and if you rent a villain for, for example, DKK 15,000. It is a matter of course of the month, because it is a fraud, but not all employers are impostors, even though some people in this Chamber may have the basic point of view. So the Left is not going to vote for this bill. We will not vote in favour of anything that makes the conditions for Danish companies worse. We want another way. We will help and support the Danish companies in the fight to increase their growth. We do not want to create barriers between Danish companies and competent labour, as the Social Democratic Party, SF and Dansk Folkeparti will do with the bill here. I just want to put some money on. We are therefore talking about people who, each time one of them comes to Denmark and takes a job, contribute a positive amount of DKK 84,000. in averages per year; person. It may be that Mr. Dan Jørgensen doesn't know those numbers. It is then also just some that appear from the material and the Ministry of Finance's report etc. But how would he know? So we are talking about a total of 6 billion. kr. a year. In comparison, therefore, it is almost the same as the refugees are costing us: 7 billion. kr. So 6 billion. kr. versus 7 billion. kr. is a dangerous path one has embarked upon. I understand the temptation to have the government in a minority, but I think we should think a little longer.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427135132	It gave rise to considerable interest from the Chamber. And the first to speak is Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427135138	Thank you very much. It is because the rapporteur says that this proposal will make it more difficult to attract highly trained foreign workers, as the Minister said. The rapporteur goes so far as to say that this will affect those foreigners with high education who want to go to Denmark. Can the rapporteur explain this to me? I don't understand. So, de facto, they will get a better salary with this because what is now included in the salary is free car, housing, board and lodging etc. So that is to say, it is a de facto increase in wages for these people, if we count on it all. So I just ask, how would it make it harder to attract foreign labour? And how would it be seen as a punishment by the people who want to come here to work that they actually get a little more out of coming here?
ParlaMint-DK_20170427135235	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427135236	Well, now I know that financial incentives don't fill anything with Enhedslisten... that they say that we should all have the same thing, that the widest shoulders should lift the most and blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah. And the reason why you have services such as free telephone, free accommodation and free car may be that it is work relevant, but at the same time it is an opportunity for the money to be paid out tax-free or at least tax-free, so the value of the services is greater than we have in here free telephone, free computer, free card for DSB etc. We could just pay that ourselves, but since it is tax-free, it has a greater value. So it will be more expensive for the companies and the employee will make less of it. So it's not that hard to understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427135331	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427135332	Yes, I still think it is, but thank you for the answer anyway. But if this is the case, as the SIRI's answer shows, as far as I can see, that a very large proportion of the salary, perhaps one third or more, is made up of something that is not really wages but benefits to staff, and the foreigner who comes here gets it instead, then he gets more in his hand. And there's another person who gets more in his hand... because it's the Danish Treasury. For there will of course be a greater de facto tax payment of the wage income of foreigners. And I am very surprised that you have to hear a representative of a government party stand up and speculate that there are some slightly different tax payments if you get free car, free housing and all that. One wonders about this, but one would rather speculate about getting more tax revenue and so rejoice that if foreign workers in this country earn more money, then we also get more tax revenue.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427135431	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427135433	Now I don't know if Mr. Finn Sørensen's imagination extends so far that he can imagine that when he comes here as a labour force, he must have a place to live, whether he is provided by the workplace or not; he must, of course, pay rent for that. And if you have to pay rent from taxed funds, you just have to make doubles, rather than having the housing provided by your workplace. Well, it's not that hard. So the answer is: No, it will not result in you being better off as an employee than you would otherwise have been asked.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427135506	The next question is Mr. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427135509	When I heard Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen's speech, I thought if you miss, you might as well miss completely. I believe that, as rapporteur for the Left, how can we say that the Left will in a completely different direction and that it is believed that this signals that a foreign wage worker is not welcome in Denmark and that there will be no barriers for companies? I would just like the rapporteur to confirm that we already have a law which has a limit on amounts. And I assume that, according to the rapporteur, this is in harmony with these things or how?
ParlaMint-DK_20170427135542	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427135542-2	I'm sure Mr. Knox wouldn't mind. Karsten Hønge is aware that the Left wants that limit to be reduced. We have also advocated a differentiated limit, so that if there were people from countries to which there was no risk that they could not be sent back, that is that they were not people from asylum-producing countries, then we should be able to set a lower limit there, just as there is no limit on the amount of labour we get from other EU countries. There is a possibility that you can also come to Denmark and take jobs that give significantly less pay. So this raising of the amount in the system of amounts is even higher against the wishes of the Left. Unlike the Socialist People's Party, the Left is a party that recognises that we live in a globalised world.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427135630	Thank you. Then Mr. Karsten Hønge it. Here you go, sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427135640	The rapporteur must be thanked for confirming that the rapporteur's first speech was a nonsense. So the government confirms that you are in favour of some barriers. They just have to be at a slightly different level, but the barriers have to be there. So why should one basically in a completely different direction so that they do not feel welcome and why the setting up of barriers for companies when what we are discussing is simply a question of where to put the barrier? So, sir. So Jan E. Jørgensen is as much a supporter of a barrier, it's just on a slightly different level, and well to feel at a level that can clearly be defrauded, because that's what this is all about. It is about having really highly specialised experts for Denmark, but the limit we are talking about here corresponds to what a primary school teacher gets in salary. Come on! You will then even open up that it can be undermined by making a double bookkeeping. Isn't there a limit to the naivety of these private companies?
ParlaMint-DK_20170427135729	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427135730	When there's a barrier, doesn't it really matter how tall it is? That doesn't make sense. That is to say, if the limit is now set at 2 million. kr. A year ago, there was still a fundamental consensus. There's a hell of a difference between how many jobs you have the opportunity to fill, whether the limit is $300,000, whether it's $400,000, or whether it's $500,000, and whether it includes these possibilities for free board and lodging, etc. There's no difference in the world. We want a different direction because we want to make it possible for companies to fill the jobs that they cannot otherwise occupy, but we do not have a need for outside labour to occupy jobs that companies can easily occupy, and that would typically be unskilled labour at a lower wage. There we have no need whatsoever to open up labour from all over the world. We do not want to make it more difficult, we want to make it easier for companies to get these jobs as an IT employee, an engineer, etc. obsessed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427135831	Thank you. Then it's mr. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427135833	Thank you. Now Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen himself engineers. Well, as far as I remember, the starting salary for an engineer is approx. 40,000 kroner. a month and the minimum amount of this scheme is approx. 34,000 kr. a month. So that is essentially an argument for raising the limit further. Therefore, I find it difficult to see how this should prevent the necessary highly trained foreign labour from being brought to Denmark. It is just a question of companies having to pay what can be expected to be paid if they have taken a corresponding training in Denmark. Then I'll ask Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, what it takes for the Left to reach the view that we should strive more to train our own to meet the needs of the labour market, rather than constantly resorting to and continuing to bring foreign labour to Denmark from outside. There must of course be scope for this, but the first priority must of course be that we seek to train our own to meet the needs that exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427135925	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427135926	It's very funny to mention Mr. Martin Henriksen an amount of DKK 40,000. which, if you multiply it by 12, gives 480,000 DKK, and the next case we have to deal with is a proposal from the Danish People's Party that we should raise the limit to 500,000 DKK, so that we cannot get the engineer to Denmark, as Mr. Martin Henriksen just talked about. We would very much like a trained Danish labour force who is able to fill the jobs that are unemployed. But one imagines that one should then call various companies and say: Now you will hear, it may well be that you need some labour here and now, but you will have to wait 5-7-10 years until we have trained the necessary Danish labour force. Then it could be that those companies would move production to other countries and then we would lose all the jobs we are talking about. We live in a globalised world where labor crosses borders. There are therefore also Danes who go to other countries and work, and this is a reality that has dawned on us in the Left, and it is a pity that it has not all come to light.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427140018	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427140019	I don't know if sir. Jan E. Jørgensen will then be prepared to raise the limit to 480,000 kroner if that is the amount which Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen believes that the appropriate amount for a newly recruited engineer is also for a foreigner who comes here as an engineer. That would be great. We could easily find a compromise there. By the way, I have been told that there are many newly trained engineers in Denmark who actually find it difficult to find work. I think that also has something to do with the fact that in some areas it is too easy for companies to bring foreign labour to Denmark, and it is too easy for companies to provide them with pay conditions which they would not offer Danes who had similar training. I think that is a problem which the Left should take a little more seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427140101	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427140105	I don't know if sir. Martin Henriksen didn't listen. Of course, we don't want to raise the limit to $480,000. We think it's too high at 408,000 kroner, so why would we want to raise it to 480,000 kroner?? It doesn't make sense. We do not want a higher limit. We believe that there are a number of jobs that companies cannot occupy and that they cannot occupy with EU citizens either. Therefore, there is a need to attract foreign labour unless you feel that the company must simply move production, because we do not care about that. That is a fair view, but it is not a view we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427140141	The next one is sir. Dan Jørgensen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427140145	Thank you. The rapporteur assures us that the government is also very much opposed to social dumping and, of course, if things like this are going on, it must be something that the authorities are taking action against. Now, on a few occasions, the rapporteur has been a bit teasing to ask several of us whether we know the facts and the data, and that is fair enough, but I would also like to do the same to the rapporteur. Does the rapporteur know how much money the government spends on combating social dumping? And can the rapporteur confirm that this amount has fallen significantly?
ParlaMint-DK_20170427140216	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427140219	No, I don't know that amount. I mean, the second amount I was talking about was one that appears directly from the material here until today. So I do not know exactly how much money is spent on combating social dumping. But I can say that what appears is that it is not enough for you to have a job of DKr 408 000. After all, it must also be a job that is on normal pay and working conditions. So if someone goes in and gets a job where the usual salary would be 600,000 kroner. or 700,000 kroner. A year, you can't just give the person 408,000 kroner, whether we include a free car and a telephone or not. It must be a job where the usual pay and working conditions are DKr 408,000. That is why social dumping has not been opened up here. Could there be people who abuse rules? Yeah, with all the rules. Should we take action against this? Yes, of course we do. But we are not going to solve that with this bill, which I would also like to endorse with the Minister's characterization of being a piece of work.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427140320	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427140323	I can tell you that the amount that the rapporteur does not know, despite the fact that the rapporteur himself has been advocating that there was no problem, because of the fact that we are checking everything we can to find cheats and so on, has actually fallen by 25%. It has fallen by almost 40 million. kr. a year. That is quite significant, and we are concerned about that, and we are, of course, listening to the trade union movement when they tell us that there are some alarm bells here that have to ring, and we have done something about that. When I ask about the figures, it is not really because I expect the rapporteur to be able to get the figures, but then it is just because the rapporteur himself has hung himself very much in this kind of detail and thinks it is very important to be able to do them on the decimals, and now the rapporteur says that we must, of course, take action against what is illegal. But does the rapporteur know whether the number of inspections carried out by the Danish Labour Inspectorate and other authorities to check whether things are going on properly has overall fallen or increased under the current government? I am not going to have the floor again, so I can say to the rapporteur that it has fallen sharply. Does the rapporteur consider this to be particularly consistent with what the rapporteur himself says and says?
ParlaMint-DK_20170427140434	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427140437	Although one could not answer in advance, one might almost guess it, we should call it the somewhat polemical shape, as Mr. Dan Jørgensen has made his mark. I mean, if the Social Democratic Party comes and wants to talk finance with the government, I shouldn't be surprised if you could find 40 million. kr. What we are talking about here is that we are playing gambling with an income of 6 billion. kr. to Denmark. 6 billion kr. is what this type of labor contributes to Danish society every year. That's 40 million. kr. In that context, of course, peppers.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427140510	Then we can thank the rapporteur of the Left. Next in line, sir. Finn Sørensen from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427140523	Thank you very much. In the Enhedslisten, we are fundamentally positive about this bill. For the purpose of this is to ensure that there is in fact a pay payment equal to the limit laid down in the law as it stands, namely the DKr 408 000. a year. What has been established is that it is evidently a widespread practice not to pay the salary of DKr 408 000, but that part of the calculation of that salary is free car, board and lodging, housing, etc., and that cannot be regarded as anything other than an attempt to circumvent a very clear limit on the amount, and this proposal aims to stop the possibility of circumvention, and we really think that everyone should be positive about that. It is not, after all, a ban, as the rapporteur of the Left tried to produce it, that, alongside the payment of wages or on top of it, or whatever we shall call it, we also pay for free cars and housing, etc. There is no prohibition in it. It's just a ban on including it in the limit we have, and I'm just saying that for the sake of clarity. So it is an excellent measure that makes it more visible and that it is easier to control compliance with the legal limit, and then it has the positive side effect that there is also some increased tax revenue out of it. Then we have heard this argument that it will be harder to attract foreign labour, and I have, of course, been trying to say that in my question to Mr Beazley. Jan E. Jørgensen that I don't understand. After all, there will be a de facto better economic position for the foreign workers who come here. Unless, of course, the employer wants to punish them by saying that they should not then have free car and board and lodging etc., then it will probably be fairly straight up whether it is contained or it is without tax and back and forth. But it's the underlying threat that's in it. So, the argument that comes from the right side of the House to the Danish People's Party in this matter is basically that employers will not have an extra cost by attracting foreign labour. They only want it if it is cheap or cheaper than the Danish one, and there I find it very interesting to study HK's hearing answer. Now we have to discuss it again in connection with the next bill when we are going to discuss whether to raise the limit on the amount, but HK argues very well by having obtained the statistics of the Danish Employers' Association, processed them and found the average wage for the groups that must be included in the category of highly trained labour, and then one can see that the average wage for those groups is significantly higher than the DKr 408,000 which the limit is now. So that in itself is an argument for going in and looking at this and looking at it from our point of view is probably also an argument for supporting the following bill. But we can discuss that there. Then the LO has submitted a consultation reply which I also hope the Folketing will listen to, namely that the groups dealing with feed masters and operators will also be included in the provision being proposed here. I think we should take a look at that. Then the board, SIRI, has sent a hearing answer, and I think we all think it's too technical for us to be able to get in depth with this, but the technical objections that come from the board deserve to be dealt with on a case-by-case basis. It must, of course, be involved in the debate and questions must be asked. But here again I would like to point out that HK has sent a very thorough review and comment on SIRI's hearing response. I do not know whether it has reached everyone in the Folketing, but I think it does, and then let us discuss it further and see if there are some things that need to be adjusted in relation to it. Then I would say that the Enhedslisten supports this. We would like to see a much more unbureaucratic system, which was simply to leave it to the social partners to decide whether the contract of employment necessary for obtaining the work and residence permit also meets the usual wage and working conditions. And if it does not, the social partners must be able to turn their thumbs down to the application. Then we got rid of the trouble we have here. As a final point, it would be a good idea to look up all available jobs and that employers were obliged to do so. Because then we would ensure that the very many engineers and scientific candidates who go unemployed in this country were actually given a chance to offer those jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427141023	There is one question from Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427141026	Thank you. Well, I just think that Mr. Finn Sørensen and I are broadcasting on completely different frequencies, for what is the consequence of that, sir. Finn Sørensen says that we could solve all the financial problems in Denmark, because if we just got those silly companies for example. To double the salary, we got twice as much into taxes. Fantastic. - Sir... Finn Sørensen doesn't try to explain to me how we get more tax revenue in Denmark by raising the limit on the amount, so that companies don't fill those jobs so that the employees don't come to Denmark and so that the associated jobs that are also disappear? Well, how does it generate more tax revenue? The companies point out that there are fewer foreign workers coming to Denmark. How does it add up?
ParlaMint-DK_20170427141117	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427141121	If it is true that it is not possible to raise foreign labour in this country for exactly the tasks for which companies want foreigners, then companies will have to pick them up abroad. And if they are going to pay more for it, what they are actually going to do under this bill, then we will also have increased tax revenue. If employers do not bring them here, they will probably do more to find the labour force at home, where they will actually pay more than after the limit. This shows HK's calculation of what average wages are really for the groups we are talking about here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427141204	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427141206	I shall now make a great revelation to Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The reason why it is called a labour market is that it is a market like other markets. The wage is, in fact, the price of labour, and it is reflected by something called supply and demand. And you can't just say artificially in here from the Folketing that now we are knocking the wages on this type of job up by 10, 15, 20, 25 per cent, and then it has no consequences, because then the companies are putting production elsewhere. So there is a reason why it is called a labour market. It is a labour market, and you can't just have to go and go and say that now we're going to set up a straight wage, and then it won't have any consequences. It has consequences, and if companies are to attract labour, but have to pay it higher than the market believes it should be paid, then they are moving jobs out of Denmark. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427141258	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427141301	At least we're not talking about the same bill, I hear. This bill is not about knocking up wages, no, it is about helping to ensure that the foreign workers who come to this country get something a little closer to what is actually the average salary of the highly educated groups we are talking about. That's what the bill is all about. So I do not know where the rapporteur has got it from, that it is about knocking wages up. I would like to say that it is a little more important, because it is not enough to ensure that foreigners reach the average wage level in these groups will help to ensure that the foreigners who come here are paid on equal terms.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427141342	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then we welcome Mrs Laura Lindahl, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427141350	Thank you. In Denmark there is a shortage of highly skilled labour in many industries. This problem was considered by a majority outside the government to be solved by putting another barrier for Danish companies to be able to employ foreign workers by tightening the amount regime. Now the same majority will then tighten the system and once again try to set the pace for the many companies that need qualified staff. And what is the argument for tightening up? What is the problem you are trying to solve? Social democracy talks about social dumping, but it really pushes the wages of ordinary Danes if you earn more than DKK 400 000. A year? That sounds crazy to me. This proposal will hamper growth in Denmark. It will keep people out who would otherwise be able to contribute massively to our society. As mentioned earlier, there are calculations from the Ministry of Finance, which show that the foreigners who come to Denmark under the payment scheme contribute an average of DKK 84,000. a year. And these are now more of the people you want to exclude from coming to Denmark to work. It doesn't make any sense. Not only do you tighten the scheme and make it more difficult for Danish companies to attract the labour they need, but you will also decide on the part of the Danish Parliament how companies pay their employees. It is quite normal for both foreign and Danish employees at this level of qualification that part of their salary is paid as free telephone, free car or a lunch scheme. And now, on the part of the Danish Parliament, we are going to dictate that they can no longer do so, at least not if they work in Denmark. I do not think that is fair. I do not know whether this is an envy idea or what is behind this proposal, or whether it is just another idea that you can fish some votes, but in reality this proposal has only negative consequences for those companies that are crying out for qualified labour and therefore also for growth in Denmark. With regard to growth and jobs, the Liberal Alliance is ahead of petty attempts to hijack a few votes here and there, and that is why the Liberal Alliance is of course voting against the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427141600	It gave rise to a question from Mr. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427141605	Mrs Laura Lindahl said that, as we all know, the companies have different arrangements. It may be car schemes, it may be housing schemes and fruit schemes, I think we were around and now the rapporteur says that they can't do that anymore. What is the basis of this proposal? Is there anything that should prevent companies from continuing to offer the good arrangements mentioned by the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20170427141630	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427141633	In other words, the proposal here is that wages should be paid in cash in Denmark, and we know that so far it has been the case that for example. a lunch or fruit scheme may be part of the salary, and the proposers are not interested in continuing to do so. They are interested in paying their wages in cash.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427141654	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427141656	It was, however, a distortion of the views that I should just like to practise listening to. How, however, can the rapporteur think that this proposal should in any way prevent companies from continuing to offer the excellent arrangements that they have? Of course it has nothing to do with it. What matters here is that we set an amount limit. And then we say that you are very, very welcome to build on it, and that is why the limit is very small, namely DKr 408,000. There is therefore every possibility that companies can contribute to the well-being of their employees. So how on earth can you say that they can't do that anymore? Of course they can.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427141733	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427141736	Yes, they can, and that can then be seen as an increase in wages. So if, as a company today, you had paid an employee DKr 408,000. including a lunch scheme, you now have to pay an employee 408,000 DKK. In cash, and in addition to that, it is absolutely right to offer a lunch arrangement, a free car and everything else, but it will be extra costs for the company in question, and then it is not certain that the calculation is related. Because if you put an extra cost on the employees, the product becomes more expensive and if the product becomes more expensive, it is not certain that there is a demand for the product, and then you have two options as a company: 1) You cannot sell your goods, and therefore you have to close and turn off, or 2) you have to move abroad, where you can keep the wage costs at a level so that you can continue to sell your goods. These are the two options that you have as a company.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427141823	Thank you. Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten, with a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427141826	Thank you. The rapporteur says it will be an extra cost. Yes, but it will not be an extra cost compared to the situation where the same company employed a Danish employee in the same job, because then the company would have to pay a higher salary. We can just take the example of the engineer's salary, the DKK 408,000 equivalent of DKK 34,000. a month. I don't know exactly the amount of a newly trained engineer's salary, but it's gonna be 40,000 kroner. a month. That's what the company has to give if it's a Danish engineer. What is unreasonable about the fact that the company has to pay exactly the same for a foreign labour force?
ParlaMint-DK_20170427141907	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427141910	Now it is not only engineers, highly paid engineers, who are lacking in Denmark. We can see precisely on the labour market balance of the Ministry of Employment, which shows where there is a shortage of labour, that it is cooks, it is carpenters, it is bricklayers who are labour shortages, too. So it's not just that it's the most expensive payroll in this society that's being asked for. There is also a demand for people who are lower in terms of wages.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427141940	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427141943	Thank you. So these are not the groups we are talking about here. We are talking about highly trained workers, and there I would ask the rapporteur to study HK's hearing answer where they have been looking at average wages for those groups. And for the group that is said to have a high level of qualification, the monthly salary is DKK 51,364, and on top of that there is certainly both free car and housing as well as all sorts of other benefits. So it's a very long way from the 34,000 to the 51,000. And the problem of a system such as the system of amounts is precisely that if people have come into the system of amounts, the company is allowed to pay them so low. And that is low compared to what the salary is for those groups. That is just what I would like the rapporteur to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427142030	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427142033	Well, that's not low, because the value of the total pay package is the one you as an employee relate to. You relate to the value of what you get, what it means to your everyday life, and of course foreign labour does.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427142047	The next question is Mr. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427142050	Thank you. I would like to know whether Mrs Laura Lindahl believes that we are actually about to import bricklayers and cooks from Africa and Pakistan and India and China and Bangladesh, etc., who can come to Denmark to work. I think that is a rather far-reaching step to take in the field of foreigners.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427142114	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427142116	As rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, I do not have a wish to import anyone. I have a desire to enable companies that lack labour to attract labour. If the labour force is not to be found in Denmark at this time, I think it should be possible to attract the same labour force from elsewhere in the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427142135	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427142137	So not only are we part of the internal market, which one can say good and bad things about where approx. 500 million people are coming a little less when the British leave the EU altogether... we must also have the whole world as a large workplace, with the result that the Liberal Alliance will open up if the company thinks it is a good idea that you can hire a bricklayer or 100 bricklayers from Pakistan to come to Denmark to work. How many it gets depends on how much they want in pay and whether there is an opportunity to outbid. And the same goes for chefs and all sorts of others. There should simply be no limit to who can come to Denmark if they can just find a job. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20170427142220	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427142222	After all, there is no possibility in the system of amounts of money to be outlawed, because work must be carried out under normal pay and working conditions. However, it is quite true that in the Liberal Alliance we are not judging the labour that companies need from where they come from. So if there is a company that cannot find its workforce in Denmark or in the EU, we see nothing to prevent it from being found outside the EU's borders.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427142245	Then we can thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is on the way, and this is Mrs Josephine Fock from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427142254	Thank you. We first deal with L 135 on the clarification of the remuneration requirements under the system, and it is the Danish People's Party, the Social Democratic Party and the Socialist People's Party that have made that proposal. You would like to make it clear that the annual remuneration of at least DKr 400 000. must be paid in cash. This means that the value of, for example, cannot be taken into account. board, lodging, diets, free car, free telephone, etc. In addition, they specify that the annual remuneration of at least DKr 400 000. must be paid in this country. The proposers write in the draft law's observations that the draft law aims to ensure a clear, transparent practice for residence permits under the amount scheme and to prevent abuse of the scheme. Basically, I would like to make it clear that in the alternative, we believe that as a starting point it is a benefit for Denmark, when foreign workers come to the country to work and thus contribute to a diverse Danish labour market, and when it is a foreign labour force that we also need as a starting point. That is why, in the alternative, we do not think that access to foreign labour should be made more difficult, and I believe that this draft law does so. For me, it is quite clear that the practices of the labour market must of course be clear and transparent, and it is also clear that the system should not be abused for example. to underpay foreign workers with consequences for the pay and working conditions of Danish employees. It is already a basic condition for obtaining a residence permit on the basis of employment that the employment complies with the usual wage and salary conditions in Denmark. The Danish Employers' Association has told us that non-liquid funds slash taxable employee benefits actually form part of the salary of approx. 60% of Danish employees in DA's field who carry out tasks at middle and high level of qualification. In my optics, if this bill is adopted, companies will have to deal with payroll for Danish and foreign employees differently in the future. I think that is inappropriate. This proposal will also mean that there will be a difference between the possible wage composition of Danish and foreign employees. Thus it will no longer be possible, what should be said, for the surrounding society to make an objective assessment of the usual Danish terms and conditions of pay and employment. I therefore believe that this draft law does the opposite of what the authors of the motion for a resolution would like to do, because it will be difficult to check whether the pay conditions are actually normal. Then there is the requirement that wages should be paid in Denmark. This will mean that international groups will find it harder to transfer specialists from foreign departments to Danish, just as Danish companies will not be able to enter into service contracts with foreign companies, where placing employees on the money or fixed track scheme is part of the delivery. I fully agree that we must do everything possible to prevent abuse, but I simply do not think that this draft law solves this problem and therefore I do not agree that the system should be changed. I also have the suspicion that, for some parties, this is at least a way of preventing us from getting foreign labour to Denmark. And, as I said, it is crucial that we can attract foreign labour. That is why the alternative cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427142651	Thank you very much. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427142658	Thank you. The last remark was certainly not so pretty, or it is a bit of a boomerang, because then that argument can be used against any proposal that would like to ensure that foreign workers in this country earn the same thing as resident servants, because it can have the effect that employers would not bother to import foreign labour if it is not cheaper. But then you can be suspected that it is because you are against foreigners and something like that. The rapporteur says that it is an advantage for Denmark to get foreign workers to do so. To that I would say: yes, it may be in some cases if we do not have that labour ourselves. However, it is not an advantage for Denmark to have a shortage of labour or not if foreign workers come here and do the same work at a lower wage than it is normally done for by Danish labour.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427142751	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427142753	Thank you. To begin with, the rapporteur is quite right in saying that perhaps I should not have said that. That is because, in my main view, I associate it with motions for resolutions which are immediately behind us to increase the amount system and the whole discussion we had about it when we discussed the amount system. So that is fair, and I acknowledge, I must say to Mr. Finn Sørensen said it might not be appropriate. Now I'll try to remember the question. I think it is an advantage for foreign workers to come to Denmark, and in my head companies have access to employing foreign labour and Danish labour, but it is clear that the people who are employed must live up to Danish wage and salary conditions. I am totally in favour of that. That is also why I say that if there is abuse, we must of course avoid it, but I just do not think that this will solve any abuse problems at all. I think it restricts the way in which a pay package is put together. That is what I would like to avoid imposing restrictions on, because there is no restriction on Danish employees either.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427142855	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427142857	Thank you. As I understand the proposal, there are no limits at all to the size of that pay package and what it is made up of. All you have to do is make sure that an actual salary of DKr 408,000 is paid out. a year. That is what the proposal is about. Let's just take an example. Let us take the third group, those called medium-level qualifications. The average monthly wage according to the Danish Employers' Association's statistics is DKK 42,269, but the average wage based on an annual limit of DKK 408,000. is 34,000 kroner. At the same time, the rapporteur says, and I think that is probably right, when the Danish Employers' Association says that there is an additional DKr 42 000. is free accommodation and car and you name it. But then the rapporteur can also see how huge the difference in pay is between the DKr 408 000. and then that which is the average wage for an intermediate level of qualification. I guess that'll be $100,000. Or something like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427143002	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427143003	This really leads me to the remark that I might not have ended with, because what HK writes in their reply is that the fixed limit in the scheme has been at a much lower level than that with which Danish employees are paid in the same type of work. I clearly read this hearing answer as if HK/Privat at least wanted the limit to be raised. That is really their argument here. Thus, I do not think that their arguments in the hearing answer justify why we should vote in favour of this bill. I don't see the connection at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427143038	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427143042	But I am quite sorry for the Alternative's rapporteur, who, for example, has to answer questions from the Enhedslisten, who obviously did not understand that when there is an average salary, it does not mean that everyone earns it. Well, some make less than average, and others make more than average. But let's just leave it alone. I stood up to praise the alternative. Today is the day when the Alternative chooses not to vote with Enhedslisten and SF, and I think that is the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427143108	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427143110	Then I do not know if it suits us that we are voting with the Left, but it is nice to get praise from the platform too, so thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427143117	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427143122	Yes, the alternative is to live up to what was, as it were, the alternative's reason for entering politics, namely to break with the blocs and look at what was actually contained in the proposals. And Mrs Josephine Fock is absolutely right about this, although it is not the words that are being used that it is hypocritical to say that you want a Denmark that is open and then do everything you can to close Denmark. Because that is really what SF and Enhedslisten are doing here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427143149	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427143151	Well, thank you. I fully agree with the latter and that is why I cannot support this bill. When I kind of made myself a little merry about Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen's first comment is, of course, because the alternative takes a position from draft legislation to draft legislation and from motion for a resolution to motion for a resolution, in relation to what is voted in Parliament. Sometimes we vote with Enhedslisten, SF, Radical, Danish People's Party, and sometimes we do the opposite.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427143214	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427143218	I heard Mrs Josephine Fock in her rapporteur's speech get involved in an explanation that it was apparently difficult for companies in relation to tax authorities to deal with the fact that there were different ways of building up pay packages. How could the rapporteur get into such a delusion? The companies that want to have Danish employees who have different types of pay packages, where something has to be taxed in a way and something else has to be taxed in a different way, are surely no different from what they are asked to do in this situation. The only difference is that we say that any things that go beyond pay should, of course, just be beyond the limit. After all, the technical thing does not make any difference as to how to deal with it in relation to the tax authorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427143300	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427143303	Well, unfortunately, I think I have expressed myself unclearly. I have simply not mentioned the word tax. I can see that in my speech, because I have written it down. What I mentioned is that the DA's consultation answer says: This means that companies may have to handle salary statements from their Danish and foreign employees differently, as non-liquid funds slash staff benefits typically form part of the salary of both Danish and foreign employees. That's what I mentioned in my speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427143323	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427143326	I assume, then, that since the rapporteur reads it from the platform, it is because it is part of the argument used by Mrs Josephine Fock. I do not see that there is any difference between how to deal with it in relation to foreign workers and Danish workers, because they may have just built up their pay packages in different ways, which brings me to another question: Mrs Josephine Fock says that it may apparently be a problem for these large companies, which are international, to pay out wages in Denmark. What difficulty can there be in a foreign employee receiving a Danish bank account when the company, as expressly stated in the rapporteur's example, is a large international company? What enormous efforts should the company make to pay out to a Danish bank account?
ParlaMint-DK_20170427143407	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427143411	What I am referring to there is what is stated in SIRI's consultation answer to us, where it says that it may be more difficult for international groups to transfer specialists from foreign departments to Danish, as well as Danish companies will not be able to enter into service contracts with foreign companies, where the posting of employees on cash or fixed track arrangements is part of the supply. I don't know exactly how this is actually going on. There I rely on SIRI's hearing answer, which I usually have a lot of faith in.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427143440	Thank you to Mrs Josephine Fock. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, whom we warmly welcome on the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427143449	Thank you for your welcome, President. For us in the Radical Left, it is actually very much the same arguments that apply now as when we dealt with the first legislative proposal to withdraw the amount system, because it is really only to make it even harder to attract foreign labour. And for us it is therefore very crucial that Denmark is created as an open nation and that Danish companies have become larger and stronger because they have been skilled and because the Danes, the employees of the companies, have been skilled. Danish companies are skilled when they are populated with people who constantly get new ideas, are motivated and have skilled colleagues that they can spar with. There are very, very many Danes who are very skilled, and that is because we have invested massively in education. And it's too bad we don't go on with it. There are also very many foreigners who are skilled • more and more. The more the world is connected, the more goods and services and people travel across borders, and they do so more and more, the more companies also need to be able to draw on both the most efficient competences and on the versatile competences of different people. Because when Danish companies are skilled, they create new jobs for more people, and then both they and their employees put money in the Treasury. And that money just gives us quite a real opportunity to develop our welfare societies in order to invest in the fact that we are becoming even more skilled so that we can occupy more kinds of jobs, and to research so that we can have new ideas and solve the problems of the green transition, of health, of our children and of the most vulnerable people in our society. But this requires a choice of priority. If you do not have skilled companies that create new jobs and new companies that grow, then you have fewer opportunities to invest in these things. And it is not to ignore the fact that there are problems; it is just to say that this is the way things are. That is why it is quite incomprehensible to us in the Radical Left that we should prevent Danish companies from being able to recruit the labour they need by now increasing the amount system further with a number of so-called clarifications. Because at a time when it is progressing and when new jobs are currently being created every day, fortunately, and when companies are crying louder and louder about bottlenecks and labour shortages, we find it actually irresponsible to cut off Danish companies from being able to fill these jobs because it makes them say no to orders and puts them at a standstill. And in some cases it will mean that some other companies in other countries will have to take those orders or that Danish companies will relocate, relocate entire companies, hopefully not, or just move jobs out. Because you can easily sit to work from different places. This is very much the case right now in the IT industry, which is screaming for labour, but it also applies to a number of other industries. That is why I see this proposal as very, very short-term and not as being of benefit to those people who today want a job but do not have one, because it may risk sending jobs out of the country. And that also makes Denmark a less attractive country to invest in. As the former rapporteur and the rapporteur of the Left made very clear, I think it makes Denmark a more closed country, and I am very afraid that it also makes us a poorer country. So that's why Radical Left probably isn't so surprising against this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427143922	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427143926	Thank you. Would the rapporteur please explain to me what it is in this bill that prevents Danish companies from hiring highly trained foreign workers?
ParlaMint-DK_20170427143936	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427143939	As Mr. Finn Sørensen knows that we in the Radical Left are already opposed to the increase in the limit. This bill then adds a number of restrictions, because a number of things that many companies count on in pay can no longer count on. And it is de facto simply to say that the limit is even higher and that it must be harder to attract foreign labour. It is clear then that it is part of the pay package which should make it both attractive and, of course, increase the amount of labour to be attracted. In the Radical Left we would like to have a bottleneck guarantee in Denmark, that is, if the company cannot find the workforce within a reasonable period of time at home, then it should have access to attract the workforce where it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427144035	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427144038	So what the rapporteur thinks is an obstacle to attracting foreign labour is that Danish companies who want to bring foreigners into one of these categories of highly educated people have to pay something that is absolutely a bottom-scraper compared to what the average wages are and that it became a little more expensive because, on top of a de facto wage payment of DKr 408,000. It is also necessary, of course, to lay down the other arrangements which are now necessary to attract such labour should prevent foreigners from entering. So that is what prevents it, i.e. the employer having to pay a tiny bit more. Then it is probably the employer who is preventing the foreign labour force from coming here, isn't it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170427144116	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427144119	That was a statement by Mr. Finn Sørensen's own position, and it's for Mr. Sørensen. Finn Sørensen's own bill. I believe, basically, that there is a clear distinction between how Mr. Finn Sørensen and I look at Danish companies and Danish economics and cohesion and welfare in Denmark. For me and the Radical Left, things are connected. Businesses must be able to recruit labour. This must be done on proper pay and working conditions. We are strongly opposed to social dumping and wish that the government had not spared the effort of control here, because we are also concerned about that. But this is something quite different. We are in very high amounts. We in the Radical Left would like to reduce the amount scheme We think there should be a bottleneck guarantee because it is about jobs that cannot be filled on the Danish labour market and it is not for the benefit of anyone who does not have a job today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427144219	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427144223	Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen said that many companies experienced a screaming need for qualified employees. How can this be linked to the fact that, on the one hand, we have, in the rapporteur's view, a screaming need for qualified staff and, on the other hand, set a very small limit of DKK 34,000. In other words, it is far below what other Danish employees should have for the same job. How can this result in the rapporteur being able to say that this prevents companies from recruiting and prevents companies from getting qualified workers?
ParlaMint-DK_20170427144300	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427144303	It is because I have confidence when I talk to the various companies and industries, and you say that you lack a lot of people in certain areas, that that is true. My starting point is not that Danish companies lie; my starting point is that they need it. After all, there are also areas where we cannot train enough, either because there are not enough young people who want to start such training, or because not enough has yet come out, or because we just have changing needs all the time and therefore cannot cover some very specialized areas. And it can be at many different levels of pay. As long as it is on proper pay and working conditions, I cannot understand how DKK 400 000. Suddenly, it turns into a low salary.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427144402	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427144405	Yes, yes, but let's just take it as a starting point that there's this screaming need for highly qualified labour. If that is the basis for our discussion, then that is just what I am asking: how can a modest increase in a small amount lead to companies being seriously prevented from getting labour, as the rapporteur said? And literally the rapporteur also said that it cuts off when there is a screaming need and we propose a modest increase in a small amount, how can this result in preventing companies and cutting companies off from labour? So, I think it is appropriate to say to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen that it is simply not connected. It may make it a little bit harder, but it can't possibly prevent or cut them off from labor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427144442	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427144448	What is not connected to me is that a majority will now decide that it should be harder for Danish companies to hire the labour they need. Qualified, highly qualified qualifications can be understood, I think, quite broadly here. I hear that companies at many different levels need many different types of qualification. And it's new to me that an average salary of $400,000. I don't think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427144521	Thank you to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen. And then we welcome a carpenter's turn, sir. Karsten Hønge from SF on the platform. And SF means Socialist People's Party! And I see he's on his way.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427144537	Rarely have I seen so many confessions from the government and its support parties as I have heard in this case. Is this really about cutting off companies, preventing companies from getting qualified labour? If you really need to conjure up such horror scenarios as we have heard here, I really do believe that we need to adopt our proposal. For if our proposal to defend the limit of the modest DKr 408,000. By stopping some holes can trigger such an anger on the right and in the government's support parties, yes, then I really think there is something to come for. I think it is because the right and the government's support parties must be aware of the ability of companies to run around with the legislation, since it can obviously go so wrong when we decide that the limit is, of course, a limit that must be respected. This is a wage limit, and it should not be undermined by the fact that employers must be able to put their trunks in the payrolls of workers, among other things. through creative rental solutions. Social dumping is one of the biggest challenges for the Danish labour market and for the welfare society. Among the many tools we use to defend our orderly labour market is the law on a limit for employees that Danish companies want for Denmark. Since this is a very special workforce with very special professional qualifications, it must be said that DKr 408 000. is a modest amount. The professional groups that have been involved have previously referred to themselves as IT specialists, engineers, etc. And now that we are talking about an amount limit, we have to say that that amount must be credible. There should be no room for any fiction with this in relation to the remuneration of comparable groups on the Danish labour market, it must be said to be a modest amount. There should be no running around with the law by camouflaging a lower salary by building in clever channels where the money can run away from the wage worker who would otherwise have been guaranteed a minimum wage of DKK 34,000. a month. The construction has developed a very special concept of this kind of talgymnastics, called the double Polish bookkeeping, and we can help to stop this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427144837	Sir. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427144843	I am a little shocked by a very hostile speech being made here. Can the rapporteur mention one, two, three good things about Danish companies?
ParlaMint-DK_20170427144854	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427144856	I can mention thousands of good things about Danish companies. I have spent my whole life working only for private companies, so I can mention countless good things. This law can help ensure that we have competition on fair and equal terms on the Danish labour market. This helps to defend the companies that behave according to the law, the companies that behave properly. This helps to keep a hand under the labour market, so both Danish employees and Danish companies must have a chance in the competition for jobs and orders.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427144928	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427144931	I asked you two or three good questions. The rapporteur mentions ten bad things again, but can we not just mention two or three good things about Danish companies?
ParlaMint-DK_20170427144943	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427144946	They pay taxes, they create jobs, they create development. Many of them are innovative and develop the country. The companies are, after all, a large part of the engine that creates welfare in Denmark through job creation and jobs, where people get a wage income so that they can pay taxes. There are a thousand good things we can say about Danish companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427145008	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427145013	Thank you. On the other hand, there are not a thousand good things to say about this bill. Some of the results of the consultations relate to the requirement that wages should be paid in Denmark. And now I quote from the consultation answer from the Danish Agency for Integration and Recruitment: Posted employees on short-term stays of less than 3 months' duration will be difficult to meet the requirement for payment of wages in Denmark, as they will not be able to be registered with a Danish address in the CPR. In practice, they will find it difficult to create a Danish bank account to receive Danish remuneration. This means that there is really only the possibility that the Danish employer pays the wage in cash. So we simply have to get back to getting paid in an envelope if you are posted employee at a Danish company for less than three months. It also says: "Danske virksomheder will not be able to enter into service contracts with foreign companies where the posting of employees on the amount or fast-track scheme is part of the delivery. Finally, it states: "International corporations will have more difficulty in transferring specialists from foreign departments to Danish departments. Is it something that impresses the proposers at all, that is to say that there is such a major criticism of one of the main points, namely this strange demand for wages to be paid in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20170427145128	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427145131	You can find the world's explanations of why some things cannot be done like that it is not possible to pay wages to a Danish account after short-term stays. Now it is the case that I myself have tried to work as an employee abroad, and this can be established relatively quickly. On the other hand, I would also like to say that if it really turns out that there are practical obstacles for short-term workers, then I think we should try to look at it seriously in committee, i.e. whether there are others other than the International Recruitment and Integration Agency, who believe that there should be that challenge and then you could meet the companies. Then I think we should be open to look at it. I'm just incredibly hard to see how hard it can be to set up a bank account. However, if this is linked to the case-law in relation to where one is registered, then I think we should look at whether there can be solutions that can help companies in the particular situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427145218	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427145221	But it is very reassuring that the rapporteur says: how difficult can it be? But it takes a CPR number to open a Danish bank account, and it takes time to get a CPR number, and it takes time to get a Danish bank account. So it's a consultation answer from a board we're talking about, and they're working on these things every day. They do nothing else, so that is a real problem. So I understand the SF that one is willing to table an amendment to the legislative proposal that has been tabled so that it becomes a little less messy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427145249	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427145252	No, I say that we would very much like to see in committee whether there really should be that obstacle and then a practical solution could be found to meet it. For example: by being something faster in the case or in any other way. I just think it's amazing if in this digitalised society, where, by the way, we think we're really smart, you can't figure out how to set up a social security number and a bank account within three months. Then perhaps I think we should ask some of the highly specialised staff to rationalise that work. I guess it can't be any harder.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427145319	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427145322	Thank you. I have to say, I'm a little surprised to hear Mr. Knox. Karsten Hønge from the platform stand and more than suggest that it is because Danish companies cheat and deceive. It actually falls to my chest. I know, and this isn't polemical. Karsten Hønge is in favour of the Danish model, and the Danish model means among other things. In addition, the employers' parties are organised, and this means that by far, the vast majority of Danish companies comply with the terms and conditions of employment. Then it is fair enough to have different views as to whether or not you want to raise a limit, but to justify this bill in such a significant way, in relation to how Danish companies behave, actually falls to me, and I would like a comment on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427145413	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427145417	As Mrs Josephine Fock also listened to, both through my speech and through others, there are several different reasons for this proposal. I think it's a strawman Mrs. Josephine Fock is doing here. She pretends I've seen one, and then she tries to argue against it. Mrs Josephine Fock will never be able to find a single quote from me in which I say that companies in general should even cheat. Not at all! That's not what this is about. It's about creating fair and equal conditions of competition, and it's just the way in this industry, like in all other contexts, that there are some companies that, when they see that a quick profit is within reach, take it. As I said, the concept of double Polish bookkeeping has been developed in the construction industry, but that does not mean that all sorts of construction companies run around corners with pay payments at all. No one could say so, and it is simply too stupid to think that anyone could mean it. But there are some who do it, there are some who do it, it's for sure. Therefore, it is also certain that if we provide too good opportunities to create creative rental solutions, some will let the rent fill disproportionately and thus actually go below the threshold. That was the message.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427145523	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427145526	I really did not try to make a strawman, but I was actually surprised by the rapporteur's speech, because it was very, very strongly signaling that this is because there are very, very many companies in Denmark that apparently do not comply with the law and with contractual and employment conditions. However, as I also said in my rapporteur's speech, I fully agree that the companies that do not do so must be pursued, but that is not the right way to do it. This way, of course, does not mean that we ensure that there are some individuals who do not comply with the terms of the contract in no way. This just makes it difficult for companies, it becomes difficult for them to attract foreign labour. That's all this bill does is make it more difficult.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427145612	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427145615	Listen to me. We are talking about the fact that it seems that a number of companies need highly specialised workers for Denmark. Then we set a limit corresponding to a Danish primary school teacher. It's a Danish primary school teacher we're talking about. Can one say in any way that it should prevent any companies or cut off any companies from doing so? Not at all. But if you even start with a salary that is clearly at the low end of the comparable groups of employees who should be looking for jobs in Denmark, start to build fruit and lunch arrangements and free car and rent, which gives an elastic for employers to expand it, so that you might end up with only really having a salary of DKK 20,000. This is why it is so modest that you are so far below the level with which other Danish employees have to compete. What we are trying to do with this is simply to maintain the already modest limit so that there are no unnecessary gaps in it, where you can then undermine the limit already well below what comparable Danish employees should have.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427145720	Thank you very much, sir. Karsten Hønge. We move on to the rapporteur of the Conservatives, Mr President. Naser Khader. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427145728	Several rapporteurs have gone into the details of the proposal from S, DF and SF. Overall, I would like to say that we in the Conservative People's Party are totally opposed to this anti-company proposal, and it is also hostile to foreign labour that we need. It is extremely important that we do not suspect our companies, of which there was part in the last speech by the last rapporteur, and it is also important that we do not bend our businesses to help us with growth, prosperity and welfare. It is extremely important that in our foreign policy we keep on walking on two legs. We must be tough on those who do not want Denmark, those who do not want to contribute, there are quite a few restrictions on them, but then we must also be accommodating to those who will contribute. Those we are talking about here today are actually people who come to Denmark to contribute to our businesses. It's not about social class, it's not about family couples, it's about people that Danish companies need. If we continue to tighten up and suspicious the Danish companies and make things much more bureaucratic, some of them are moving abroad, so we should not do that. In other words, I can only see L 135 as a proposal that will limit the opportunities for Danish companies to attract highly trained labour that we need, and we cannot support that and that is why we reject it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427145931	Thank you, sir. Naser Khader. There are no brief comments. We shall now move on to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr Beyer de Ryke. Martin Henriksen from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427145941	Thank you. The Social Democratic Party, the Socialist People's Party and the Danish People's Party have jointly tabled this bill, which means that the Aliens' Act is amended so that the fixed remuneration on the limit of the amount must be paid in Denmark and so that it is clarified that the board and lodging etc. may not be included in the wage calculation. In the context of consultation over L 168 from the 2015-16 session, when we raised the limit to DKK 400 000, it was recommended by some of the parties to the hearing that it was specified in the payment scheme that the salary should be paid in Denmark and that it be made clear that the board and lodging etc. may not be included in the wage calculation. These elements were not included in L 168, but among those who tabled the bill, the Danish People's Party, the Social Democratic Party and the SF, there was agreement that there might be a need to change the rules on the composition and payment of wages as well. So the parties behind agreed to follow up at a later stage, and that is what we are doing here. In the annual remuneration of the minimum amount, therefore, the value of e.g. board, lodging, diets and free car, free telephone, internet, in-kind, subscriptions or other services offered to the employee by the employer. Then it is also proposed that the Aliens Act specifies that the annual remuneration should be paid in this country. The consultation responses to L 168 also indicated that, under the current rules, part of the salary can be paid in the country of origin, which makes it difficult to verify that the conditions for the residence permit under the system of amounts are actually complied with, and here we must ensure a clear and transparent practice for residence permits under the system of amounts and prevent abuse of the system. The original purpose of the scheme was to attract highly specialised and highly trained foreign workers, and we are in favour of this in the draft law. I do not think it makes much sense to question the fact that there is still the possibility of attracting highly trained foreign labour, because that is indeed possible, and we are, in fact, stressing with the proposal that we are actually targeting it more closely with highly specialised foreign labour. But we in the Danish People's Party think that it is therefore better if companies can use the Danish labour force to a greater extent, and that is whether we are talking about bricklayers or engineers for that matter. Then I would like to thank the Enhedslisten for its support, and there was also a desire to see whether there is a need for some clarification in the committee procedure, and we very much welcome that from the Danish People's Party. Then I would also like to thank you for your cooperation and look forward to the committee reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427150208	Thank you from here, too. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. There is not, and then it has been adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427150231	The debate is open and we give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427150246	The legislative proposal to increase the minimum amount in the system of amounts is linked to the legislative proposal we have just discussed on clarification of the amount system. I can therefore reiterate my basic point of view: we need a two-legged immigration policy. Denmark must have a strict and consistent foreign policy towards refugees and migrants, but at the same time we must be open to foreigners who can and will work and who will contribute to our society. Danish companies must be able to cope with international competition, and this requires companies to be able to recruit highly qualified and skilled employees. This is a prerequisite for the growth of companies, and it is therefore important for all of us. Right now, the lack of labour poses a challenge for Danish companies. We simply have to take this challenge seriously, and that is why I think it is irresponsible to put forward a legislative proposal which will undoubtedly make it more difficult for employers to get the labour that is needed. It is not even a year since the system of amounts was tightened by a majority outside the government, and now the Danish People's Party wants to raise the minimum amount of the amount scheme once again with this bill. 500,000 kroner. in terms of annual wages is a high wage, also for well-educated workers, and especially in the case of young people. And everything else equal, it is often young people with a limited number of years in the labour market who are willing to go to another country to work. The reason for the proposal is that the amount system must not be used as a cheaper alternative to Danish labour. I think that the proposers should demonstrate that companies use the system for wage dumping. It is the case that it is a requirement to obtain a residence permit under the system of amounts that recruitment takes place under normal pay and employment conditions. Thus, the SIRI's response to the consultation also shows that the foreigners who are here on the system of payments receive good wages. To increase the minimum amount to DKK 500,000. a year will ensure no one a fairer pay. If companies cannot find the right employee in Denmark, yes, then we risk that the company will have to pay a much higher salary to a foreign employee than what otherwise results from the usual pay and employment conditions. If Danish companies cannot get the labour they need for the usual salary in Denmark, then Danish goods will be disproportionately expensive. The competitiveness of Danish companies will be weakened and we may lose Danish jobs. I think that instead of talking about wage dumping, we should have a political debate on who we want to give access to Denmark to work. Because this is where the bill hits foreigners who come here to contribute from day one and even with a quite high amount of money. A new analysis by the Ministry of Finance on the net contribution of immigrants to public finances shows that foreigners who have come to Denmark to work contributed 6 billion in 2014. kr. to public finances. That's 84,000 kroner. per person. So this proposal makes it harder for us to finance the Danish welfare state. It is important for the government to ensure that employers have access to the necessary labour that they are lacking. If the companies do not get it, we risk moving out of Denmark and therefore with a loss of Danish jobs. So, under no circumstances can the government support the bill that is here. I mean, it's going in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427150718	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Martin Henriksen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427150722	Thank you. I would like to ask whether the Minister is not concerned that it may be difficult for highly educated Danes to enter the labour market if they are undercut by foreigners coming from countries where wages can be lower. For it is not a requirement of the existing scheme unless the Minister will help to make it a requirement that you first have to prove that you have examined whether there is an opportunity to hire a Dane in the job in question. This is not a requirement, and therefore there is the possibility that a foreigner can be taken in from abroad without having studied it at all or trying to get a Dane to deal with the work in question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427150756	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427150757	When it comes to people who come and contribute here in Denmark, i.e. people who come here for a job, I think the most important thing must be that companies get the best and best workforce. Frankly, I think this is good for all of us. As I said, I believe that the immigration policy must go on two legs. On the one hand, we must pursue a very strict and consistent foreign policy towards the refugees and migrants who come here and, on the other hand, we must be an open country towards those who can and will, in other words those who come here for work. I believe this is beneficial for Danish companies and thus for the benefit of all of us. So no, I don't share sir. Martin Henriksen's concerns.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427150836	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427150837	But we feel that, in the Danish People's Party, if there is a Danish bricklayer who is available and there is a job for that person, then it is the Danish vacant bricklayer who should get that job. Then you should not pick someone up for Denmark from Eastern Europe or from somewhere else on the earth. Then the work should go to the Danish bricklayer who is available. This applies equally to a Dane who is a university graduate. If the Dane is available and there is a job that fits the Dane's qualifications, then the company must hire the Dane. It's simple. Then there is no point in having a system that allows you to pick up one for Denmark from India or Pakistan, or where it might be, with the same qualifications, but then for a slightly lower salary, and unfortunately we see some examples of this. This is also pointed out in some of the consultations. Doesn't the Minister think that's a problem? Should we not seek to use the Danish labour force, even if it may cost a little more in wages?
ParlaMint-DK_20170427150926	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427150927	It must simply be the case that it is up to the companies themselves who they employ. If there is an IT employee who is a Dane and who can do something within IT, but not exactly what a company is missing, and you can get an Indian who can do exactly what he needs to do the job, then it's no use saying to the company: Then you have to hire the Dane. However, it must be up to the company itself, because otherwise we, as politicians, will start to operate, and we should not.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427151002	Thank you very much to the Minister. The first rapporteur for the parties is Mr. Dan Jørgensen from the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427151015	Thank you. Now it is the second proposal we are debating today relating to the system of amounts, so I shall not repeat the more fundamental considerations about the value of such a system of amounts. I just want to say that we cannot support this proposal. It is not, in fact, because we cannot understand the reasons behind and even have sympathy for them. We're just saying 500,000 kroner. sounds like an excessive amount, and in any case we will wait and assess whether we have not struck the right balance with the legislative proposal that we adopted last year, which set a new, but therefore slightly lower, limit on the amount. We think it is more reasonable to take account of both the desire to attract labour and the desire to combat social dumping. So that's what's called a friendly rejection.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427151119	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Martin Henriksen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427151122	I would like to start by thanking Mr. Dan Jørgensen for the cooperation on the other draft laws. I think that's been really good. But shouldn't we take a little more while we're at it? Therefore, I would like to ask Mr. Dan Jørgensen: Suppose the Social Democrats believe that DKK 500,000. I mean, it's a little too much, so 450,000 kroner. Maybe an amount you could land on? We might as well see if we can't meet halfway. So that must be the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427151153	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427151155	This has been freshly tried by the rapporteur. But no, I will stick to my opening speech, namely that we think that the legislation we adopted together with the Danish People's Party last year seems sensible, and then we have to evaluate, and then it may be that we will be here in a year's time, and then things may be different.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427151216	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427151220	I understand that sir. Martin Henriksen asks, because it is as if you are witnessing a couple of horse-prængers talking about where the figure should be. When you hear Mr. Dan Jørgensen, it's just that we think we think we think enough, and it's safe there and so on. There is no justification whatsoever for what you say. One might ask the companies whether the companies believe that the limit of DKK 500,000. is a problem, but you don't. Let it go. I just can't quite understand how sir. Dan Jørgensen can say that with an amount limit of DKK 408,000. against social dumping, but with a limit of DKK 500,000. We do not combat social dumping. So, obviously, social dumping can be in all wage groups. So, social dumping among directors, for example: one director subjugates the other by going for lye and cold water for 3 million. kr., as they usually get 4 million. kr. I think the concept of social dumping covers very, very much when we hear Social Democrats speak.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427151324	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427151325	I'm not quite sure if Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen actually had some questions. As a comment on how to set such a limit, I can say that it is clear that it is difficult. The questioner himself must know this, since the questioner himself proposes not just one limit, but many different limits, because he wants a differentiated limit. In addition, if I have understood correctly, one must enter and differentiate between different types of education. It will then become even more complicated. I freely admit that it is not certain that we have struck precisely with this border on which we have landed. But we did so after consulting the social partners. If it turns out that there is a need for a different limit at a later stage when we evaluate, we are certainly willing to discuss it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427151418	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427151420	I can then help the rapporteur a little on the way. If there is a very high level of unemployment in an industry, such as IT programmers or engineers, and it is still pouring in with foreign labour, this could suggest that the reason why Danish companies choose foreign labour is that they can get it cheaper in relation to qualifications. But if we have industries that we are dealing with here, where unemployment is very, very low, there is no evidence whatsoever of social dumping. That is how easy it is to decide whether or not an area is subject to social dumping. And I can say that there is not such a very large queue of unemployed directors who are being undercut by foreign labour, so a piece lower than 2-3 million. kr. I guess you can say it's max.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427151509	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427151509-2	But we have made our limit, as the rapporteur knows, so I do not know where he has it there with 3 million. kr. from. I do not know whether the rapporteur can mention some directors who have come from other countries to Denmark on the amount scheme, which earns DKr 408 000. a year.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427151527	Thank you, sir. Dan Jørgensen. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427151600	The legislative proposal we are debating now, which is therefore again a private legislative proposal, is very appropriate in addition to the legislative proposal we have just discussed on the amount system. With the bill here, the Danish People's Party has managed to shake off the rest of the parties of the Things, and I would like to congratulate you on that, because it seems that not so many others than the Danish People's Party are involved in raising the limit as much as 0.5 million. kr. Maybe there's an alliance coming with the Enhedslisten I don't know, but I can see there's work on it. Nevertheless, I would like to repeat a few of my points from the speech from the previous reading, because the same arguments apply here too. For the Left, it is crucial that we have a strict and consistent policy on foreigners, because we must be able to keep track of how many we accept in Denmark. That is the one part of the Left's policy and it is essential. But the second part is just as important. It is about opening up Denmark more to those who can and will contribute positively to Danish society, because this group of people is needed in the Danish companies. Therefore, it makes absolutely no sense to close the door to Denmark for those who can support themselves and contribute to the growth of Danish companies. I would actually go so far as to say that this is irresponsible, i.e. that you go in and make a legislative proposal. For what lies here will make it significantly harder for Danish companies to attract the necessary labour force, it will be to the detriment of Denmark. The proposers seem to have forgotten, or have ignored, that the foreigners who come here on the money system are people who make a positive contribution from day one. They are a gain from the day they arrive, they are for society, they are for Danish companies. And why there is a desire to restrict that particular group, I must once again be completely unfamiliar with it. The proposal to increase the ceiling to 0.5 million. kr. in the wrong direction, which means that the bill will be passed on to the Danish business community and thus ultimately to Denmark, and so the Left does not want to contribute to that, and in no case can the Left support a bill that would so much impair the conditions of Danish business and thus of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427151815	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427151818	Thank you. We generally think that when there is a distribution of approx. 80,000 residence permits for Denmark a year, it is a bit too violent, to say the least, and that is part of the explanatory statement. But there is no reason to hide the fact that this is, of course, also a matter for us of reducing total immigration to Denmark, which we think is very, very violent. But it's also about there being a lot that suggests in relation to some of those who come up with this scheme... even though it's a good salary they get that there's some underpayment involved in it. If you look at the statistics, such as: The Danish Employers' Association has put forward something that suggests that the limit is just below what it should be. Is Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen did not worry that there are some Danes, people who live here in Denmark, who have taken a long education, who may have an expectation that they can get a certain salary, and reasonably have an expectation of it, but who can then see that someone comes from outside and will take the same job for a slightly lower salary? And then you can't blame them for wanting to, because in the country they come from, you might be used to lower wages, even if you have a long education. But is it not a real problem that we in the Folketing will have to address in some way?
ParlaMint-DK_20170427151925	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427151925-2	Well, I can't deny that Mr. Knox... Martin Henriksen can find an example of how it takes place, but in general companies employ the manpower they can get and who are qualified. And you also have to remember that foreign workers who come to Denmark are in many ways behind on points compared to Danish labour. You can't be Danish. And even though the working language of a number of companies is English, it is also an advantage that you can speak Danish. So you're already behind on points. So when Danish companies want to recruit foreign labour, it is because it is difficult to find equally qualified labour in Denmark. I think we should almost take a tour of some of the companies involved, so sir. Martin Henriksen can talk to some of the companies. So it is not a question of having a lot of skilled and qualified Danish employees standing, and then they say: Ah, you know what, we take some from India or Pakistan, because we can get them for 1,000 kroner. less a month. That is not the way things are.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427152024	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427152025	At regular intervals, I also have the pleasure of talking to various companies and business organisations, and during the time when I have had the pleasure of dealing with foreign policy and also the arrangements relating to foreign labour, they have always said one thing, and it is that they would like the supply of work to be a little larger and that there was a possibility that people could be recruited a little better and a little easier from the other side of the globe. So I think that is a standard view for a company to have, and I can understand that view from such a narrow corporate point of view. But I just think that in here, as politicians, we also have some other considerations to take into account, and that is what we in the Danish People's Party are trying to do with this bill. Because there will still be an opportunity, if it was adopted, to pick up foreign labour it is just on some other terms. I'd like to ask Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, whether the Left will be prepared to look at making another change, which means that if you pick up an employee from the other side of the globe it can also be just outside the internal market • to Denmark to work at your company, you must first be able to prove that you have tried to pick up the labour force in Denmark. Because that is not a requirement today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427152128	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427152129	I can't decide on that on a stand-by basis. But we're talking in many other good contexts, and that's where Mr. Martin Henriksen at least pick up the talk. I think, sir. Martin Henriksen talks a little bit about Social Democracy and SF and Enhedslisten and others; I think, sir. Martin Henriksen had to talk much more with his good friends in the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427152152	Thank you for that to the rapporteur of the Left. We now move on to Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427152205	Thank you. The Danish People's Party has not managed to shake off all the parties of the Danish Parliament in relation to this bill, because Enhedslisten is positive about it. At any rate, we are not doing so with the full explanatory statement of the Danish People's Party, namely that it is also in their optics a means of limiting immigration, but my presentation will show what is our justification for supporting the proposal. It is, after all, rather the same problem that we had in the previous debate, but this is a very cash question of the amount we talked about, which is in the law today, and which in practice is DKr 408 000. By virtue of the regulatory mechanism, the Danish People's Party proposes that we raise to DKK 500,000. Now I don't know if it's conscious, but they've actually been lucky to hit quite precisely if they haven't figured it out. I guess that's what they got. Now the rapporteur sits and smiles treacherously down there. He looks as if he has calculated it, but at least HK's hearing answer, which I would ask everyone to read, no matter what they think of things, confirms that a limit in what we call the sum scheme is DKK 500,000. In fact, if you look at the average wage for what is termed middle level of qualification, which is the lowest of the highly educated people, and that is the group we are talking about, then you have an average salary of just over DKK 42,000. a month, which will pay an annual salary of 504,000 kroner. The Enhedslisten agrees that it would be reasonable to raise it there. Then you can also say to the Danish People's Party that they may not be tormenting us with such things in the very near future, because then it is very good, because at the same time there is a regulatory mechanism in the law. So we can support that. That will also solve the problem which Mr. Karsten Hønge himself pointed out that the salary we have today in the amount scheme of DKK 34,000. per month, corresponds to the level of a primary school teacher. I believe that when sir... Karsten Hønge says so. I'm sure he checked it out. And very much respect for the education of primary school teachers, but surely they are not what we normally understand by the group of highly educated people. After all, they are engineers and such things, and that is where we have to go to a completely different level of pay if we are to ensure that foreigners who come to the country on the money system will work on equal terms with their resident colleagues. Then I would like to anticipate an objection which could well be raised against this. Well, what's the deal with an average salary and letting it be the level? You can't say that everyone might be worth it or what you say. Perhaps they are newly-educated foreigners, and that is why they will usually go for a slightly lower salary, a start-up salary or something. Yes, but the argument for an average wage is that we will at least ensure that the foreign labour force is not used to press wages. There I would like to refer to the arguments that HK is also making, because by means of an average wage, the effect on the average wage level in the area in question will be neutral, i.e. you cannot come and say that an amount of money is being misused to knock wages up or what was said here a moment ago under the previous draft law. And then it will also be a litmus test of whether companies really have the shortage of skilled labour, that is to say those who have it, and whether they are willing to pay the wages which, as usual, are expressed at the levels of wage statistics. So it would be quite fair to put it there. The fact that it should make it harder to attract the foreign labour force, that is, stop it! It is difficult to believe that foreign labour will stay away because suddenly there will be an opportunity to earn something more in Denmark than can be done with the current system of amounts. So it is probably a cover-up for the fact that employers do not think that they should pay more than they need to pay. Then we have a big discussion about it with foreign workers. I just want to say that yes, foreign workers in this country regardless of their level of education are a gain for Denmark under two conditions. One is that they are paid on equal terms with colleagues working in the same sector, and the other is that we lack the labour force. And I would like to remind you that the Enhedslisten has made two proposals in the past which are completely unbureaucratic and which will ensure this without all sorts of long discussions on the arrangements for payments here in the Danish Parliament, namely that we leave it to the social partners to decide whether the employment contract which the alien enters and which is the prerequisite for obtaining a work and residence permit meets the level of collective and general pay within that sector. That's one thing. The second is that we require all companies to look up the available jobs, because then we will be able to document automatically whether there is actually that shortage of labour. Can I just say that it does not really matter to ensure that Danish unemployed people get it. We have an unemployment rate among engineers of 1,355 people. We have 893 unemployed scientific candidates. I wonder if there could be anyone among them who can meet the demand there is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427152742	It was also with a round hand. Yes, I am sorry, President, but thank you for the flexibility). The first brief remark is from Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427152749	I am glad that there are two parties that stand together, namely Enhedslisten and Dansk Folkeparti, in the desire to keep foreigners out of Denmark, unless it is really rich foreigners. I find it interesting that Enhedslisten has that view. But I'm just gonna ask sir. Finn Sørensen, whether it has been made clear that this will also mean that it will be considerably more difficult, for example, for a Danish citizen who has been out of town for many years and who now wants to return and take his or her spouse with him. For this then means that the spouse can only come to Denmark if he or she gets a job of 1⁄2 million. kr. a year.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427152828	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427152829	I can't see that at all. It is, after all, another form of legislation that makes it difficult for Danish citizens who have been away for a long time to come back. This is another piece of legislation for which the rapporteur himself is jointly responsible, so it has nothing to do with this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427152842	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427152843	Well, then there may be disagreement about the family reunification rules, but if mr. Finn Sørensen will accept the parliamentary situation caused by the electorate, so the only option that we see right now, at least, for one to be able to get married, for one to be able to get under the system of amounts. So if this proposal were adopted, it would mean that spouses could only come to Denmark if they earned 1⁄2 million. kr. a year. That's the way it is. There's no point in sir. Finn Sørensen is shaking his head.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427152917	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427152918	No, I am not shaking the head of the rapporteur's speech. I am just shaking my head by the fact that Enhedslisten is going to bow down to the fact that because there is a majority in this Parliament that has unfairly tightened the Aliens Act which has also affected Danish citizens, and that is what the rapporteur is saying and admits it can be used as an argument for us to accept that foreigners can generally work in this country under worse pay conditions than colleagues who are in the same industry. I simply cannot get into my head that there should be any reasonable logic in it. So that is what I was, like, shaking my head off, and I am sorry if the rapporteur thought it was him I was shaking my head off. That would be completely rude.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427153003	Thank you, sir. Finn Sørensen, there are no more brief remarks. Then we move on to Mrs Laura Lindahl from the Liberal Alliance. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427153010	Thank you. We have just dealt with another tightening of the so-called 'amounts' system, and this proposal has a close connection with this, so I will probably repeat myself slightly. In Denmark we need higher growth. That growth comes from private companies, but in order for companies to create that growth, they need to be able to be competitive in a global market, and therefore businesses must be able to attract the best qualified workforce from all over the world. And immediately, the authors of the Danish People's Party agree with that view, at least on the basis of the comments to the bill. Therefore, it also seems crazy that barriers are now being set again to enable companies to attract the labour they need. From a number of industries we hear how difficult they are to find specialist employees in Denmark, why they have to bring them in from all over the world. And it is good for Denmark that they have the opportunity to do so. This gives growth, and growth provides more jobs, also for Danish workers. So we can see that it is not the desire to attract foreign workers who are behind this proposal, but what is it? Perhaps it is the fear that foreigners will come and steal jobs from the Danes, but we just hear that Danish companies find it difficult to get Danish employees who are skilled enough. So I don't think I'm gonna hold up that argument. Then there has been talk of social dumping, but it is hard to imagine when we are talking about an amount that is even higher than that which has been so far. So I still lack the good argument for weakening the competitiveness of Danish companies and hampering growth, and the Liberal Alliance is also voting against this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427153201	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Welcome to Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427153221	Thank you. This is the first reading of L 161 on the increase in the minimum amount in the amount scheme, and it is about Dansk Folkeparti wanting the minimum amount to be raised from the current minimum of DKK 400 000 with this bill. A minimum remuneration of DKK 500,000 per year will be required in the future. a year. As I explained in my previous rapporteur's speech, which dealt with the clarification of remuneration requirements under the reward scheme, we believe in the alternative that foreign labour is a positive contribution to the Danish labour market, and it is vital that Danish companies can recruit the necessary labour force. I therefore believe that it should not be made more difficult for foreign workers to come here, and I do not believe that a possible problem with the remuneration of Danish employees and foreign employees in similar positions will be solved by raising the minimum amount. So, like the alternative, we voted against the previous increase in the minimum amount of DKr 380 000. $400,000. Every year, we will also vote against this draft law on a further increase in the minimum amount of money.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427153327	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427153330	Thank you. I would like to know whether Mrs Josephine Fock is not concerned about, as I also asked the Minister and others, that there are Danes who have spent a great many years taking a long and fine university education, who then find out that they have very, very difficult to find a foothold on the Danish labour market, because it is better for a company to take a foreigner with qualifications that correspond roughly to Dane's, but to a cheaper salary? There is nothing to prevent this from happening in the system of amounts. Is this something that the Alternative sees as a problem we have to deal with?
ParlaMint-DK_20170427153402	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427153403	No, actually, I'm not worried about that. If I look at the competences and educations we have in Denmark, then I can see that we are doing very, very well, and at the same time I still think that it should be an opportunity for companies to attract foreign labour. In cases where companies do so, it is because there is a need for specific competences, other competences, or there is a culture in the company that makes you want foreign labour because it is a company that works internationally. So there can be a lot of reasons for that. So I will respond negatively to it and say: No, it is not a concern for me.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427153436	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427153437	However, with the current limit, there are opportunities to undercut the labour force. You can also see this if you look at some of the statistics produced by the Danish Employers' Association, which HK has also included in their consultation answer and which Mr. Finn Sørensen has also mentioned a couple of laps. Is it not a problem if the main argument that you take a foreigner with a university education rather than a Dane with a university education is that you can get a little lower wage costs there? Isn't that a problem? There is nothing at all in this system that prevents it, so to speak.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427153515	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427153516	I do not know if that is where we really disagree. As far as I am concerned, it is essential to follow the Danish terms and conditions of employment and the Danish terms and conditions of employment. I have very, very great faith in the Danish model, in other words the Danish model of agreement, where the parties agree, and it is clear that companies must follow the contractual and wage conditions that exist in Denmark. But with the wage level that is now, I do not see that there is that problem, no.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427153547	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427153550	Thank you and thank you for the rapporteur's contribution. Yes, but there is just one fact to which the rapporteur must address himself. For that is the problem, and that is what HK's consultation answer shows, and these are not some figures that HK has invented. It is the statistics of the Danish Employers' Association that they work from, and this simply shows that for the lowest paid of the groups we are talking about, highly trained labour, there is a difference of DKK 8,000. per month from the current limit of DKr 408,000. and up to the average wage of that group. So would the rapporteur not acknowledge that there is a problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20170427153633	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427153634	No, I don't want to acknowledge that. Because it's absolutely crucial to me that we can attract foreign labour. I think that everything is being done at the moment to protect us from foreigners coming to Denmark, and I think it is very good that we can attract foreign labour. I think it is really important for Denmark that we can attract foreign labour, and I think it is really important for companies. We will be much stronger if we are able to attract foreign labour, and that is why I do not think we should put more leg buckles on it than we have already done.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427153704	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427153706	Thank you. But that's where the water partes. Because from the perspective of Enhedslisten it is important that we can attract foreign labour, yes, but it must not be at the expense of the wage and working conditions that we have in the relevant industries in Denmark, and that is why we have to have some mechanisms, and Enhedslisten has proposed a much more flexible and non-bureaucratic mechanism than this system of amounts and all the other schemes. But now we have this system of payments, and we are working on it, and then we need to make sure that it complies with the principle that if we get foreign workers here to work, it must be done on the pay and working conditions that apply in the sector and in the field of collective agreements in which they are to work. So the present system of amounts does not. So that is the wrong priority, excuse me, no, that is not what the Danish Parliament says, but then we just disagree completely, because then comes, I think, the rapporteur and the alternative to giving the wrong priority, with the result that, indirectly and perhaps without wishing to do so, the foreign labour force in this country will unfortunately have the negative effect of helping to undermine wages and working conditions that we already have here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427153821	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427153822	I think that may be quite right, as Mr. Finn Sørensen says that we here basically disagree. For me, it is absolutely crucial that we are an open country that can attract foreign labour on proper terms and conditions of employment. But that means that instead of having a closed country, we will have a country with a view, and that will benefit all of us. The inclusion of foreign workers in our workplaces is beneficial for Danish employees, and it is beneficial for us as a society. So, yeah, I guess we basically disagree. I do not want to limit the fact that we can receive foreign labour.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427153858	Thank you to Mrs Josephine Fock. Before we move on, I'll make an admission. In fact, I have not informed you that the table before us is called the rapporteur's table in the language of the House. It means that you can so quietly pick up your thoughts before you go up. I would like to call for it to be used, because then we will be closer to the President when we have to change the rapporteur. It was a service briefing. Here you go to the next rapporteur, who is ready and ready. This is Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427153933	Thank you, President. I have gathered the thoughts right here below the platform tried on it at least. You can then judge if you have succeeded. The draft law we are discussing now seems to me to be a direct extension of the debate we had a few moments ago on draft law L 135 on clarification of the requirements for the system of amounts. This bill is then about raising the limits further so that, in my view, it becomes even more difficult for companies to attract foreign labour. That is why I would just like to draw attention to the rapporteur's speech which I have just made on draft law No. L 135, not because I am not happy to repeat that I think it would be to the detriment of Denmark if we were to become a more closed country, which would be harder to fill positions with skilled foreigners at many different levels, because the labour market is not a chair game with a certain number of seats, but rather is about developing and becoming more skilled and creating new and more jobs. In addition, I shall refer to my rapporteur's speech to L 135, because these are the same arguments that I could use here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427154116	Thank you to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, there are no brief comments. So we move on to Mr. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427154127	Of course, it is important that companies can attract highly skilled labour. And if this is so important to companies, yes, we sometimes get the impression in this debate that it is the very survival of companies and almost the welfare society that stands and falls on the fact that these employees can be hired, then my conclusion is that then the employers can just go and pay a decent salary to them. I think it is quite okay that the Danish People's Party raises the debate on where we should place the limit on the amount. We have heard several times that 408,000 kroner. a year cannot be social dumping. Several of the rapporteurs have said with great enthusiasm that it is not possible to believe that DKr 408,000. may be social dumping. But it is obvious that social dumping is a relative matter. For the unskilled, DKr 408,000. typically not be wage dumping, but for these employees, as was emphasized several times, highly specialized employees with very special skills, which the companies are clearly almost able to hire, yes, so can 34,000 DKK. In other words, what is equivalent to a primary school teacher's salary is a pressure on wages. Now, fortunately, during the previous legislative procedure, we have just found that a majority in the Folketing will support us having some of the gaps that some rather well-creative employers have taken advantage of in order to undermine the threshold. If, however, the SF is unable to support the proposal, this is due only to the fact that we in the Danish Parliament recently raised the limit, and that we have also been strengthened by the legislative proposal we discussed earlier. And then we would like to take a look at the time to see how the current limit of the strengthened system works before we agree to raise the limit of the amount.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427154355	There are no brief comments, thank you, Mr President. Karsten Hønge. The last person to speak is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr Seligman. Martin Henriksen from the Danish People's Party. Indeed, the Conservatives have not had the opportunity to take part in this debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427154424	Thank you, sir. President. As has been suggested a few times in the course of today, the Folketing has already decided to raise the limit on the amount, and there is also, it seems, a majority in favour of making some minor adjustments to the existing ceiling. But it is no secret or it is hopefully no secret that we in the Danish People's Party would like the amount to be higher. Therefore, this draft law proposes that the minimum amount be increased further and set at DKK 500,000. annual. This bill still needs to regulate this amount with the rate-regulation rate and an adjustment rate which means that overall regulation will correspond to wage developments in society. In the view of the Danish People's Party, the aim of the limit should continue to be to attract highly specialised and highly trained foreign workers, and therefore the scheme should be adjusted so that it is largely targeted at highly educated foreigners. The amount scheme must not be used as a cheaper alternative to Danish labour force, and the scheme must not result in Danish wages being squeezed or some Danish employees leaving the labour market or being excluded from the labour market. Moreover, the draft law also provides for greater equal treatment of foreign labour in terms of pay and employment conditions, which protects both foreign labour and Danish labour from wage dumping. In our view, wage dumping can take place at virtually all levels. The current minimum amount of DKK 400 000. annual is equivalent to one month's salary of approx. 33,000 kroner. If the minimum amount is raised to DKK 500,000. annually, this amounts to about 42,000 kroner. per month. Excerpts from Danish Employers' Association's statistics from the third quarter of 2016 show that the average wage for employees in Denmark at middle level of qualification is approx. 42,000 kr. per month. For a subgroup of staff in the field of information and communication technology, which includes many with a residence permit under the current amount scheme, the average wage is approx. 47,000 kr. per month. For employees at a high level of qualification, the average wage is about DKK 50,000. per For a subset of staff in the field of information and communication technology, the average wage is approx. Fifty-three thousand kroner. per month. From 2012 to 2015, the number of full-time employees with a residence permit increased under the amount scheme. It is the view of the Danish People's Party that the increased number of residence permits under the payment scheme is not due to a real need for qualified foreign labour, but rather to a desire by certain companies to reduce the cost of paying wages. This is not the purpose of the system of amounts and it is not appropriate for the Danish labour market. In our view, Danish companies generally have good conditions for attracting highly trained foreign labour, and if the bill is adopted, there will still be very, very good opportunities to attract highly educated foreigners to Denmark if employers are determined to pay a competitive wage similar to that which a Danish employee at the same level would expect to receive if they are employed in a Danish company at home. Moreover, if the proposal is adopted, there will continue to be an opportunity to attract labour from other EU countries. It is against this background that we have tabled the proposal. In addition, we also believe that total immigration into Denmark remains too violent. However, I would certainly like to thank the Enhedslisten for its support, and I have noted that the Social Democrats and the Socialist People's Party could perhaps be involved in raising the threshold in time. You never know, but we hope from the Danish People's Party that we will get there at some point. Unfortunately, at this stage there is no majority but, as I said, we in the Danish People's Party hope that we will get there. That's it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427154811	Thank you, sir. Martin Henriksen. There are apparently no brief comments here either. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427154836	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427154856	The motion for a resolution here instructs the government to call the parties for a discussion on how to regulate the withdrawal of residence permits and the possibility of a derogation. According to the proposers, the withdrawal rules should reflect more closely the potential of a modern, globalised labour market, including: the possibility of temporarily travelling abroad and working abroad. I would like to state straight away that the government cannot support the resolution. In the view of the government, there is no need to call the parties for an exchange of views on the rules of cancellation. The government is, of course, constantly considering whether the rules on residence permits reflect conditions in a globalised world, and this also applies to the rules on cancellations. The government agrees that globalisation has several advantages. A globalised labour market is an economic gain for Denmark and, of course, there must also be an opportunity to go out into the world and improve. It is for the benefit of Denmark when resident foreigners go out and come back with new competences, but at the same time it is no secret that the government wants to pursue a strict immigration policy. It is in principle my view that if you as a foreigner apply for a residence permit in Denmark, it must be because you want to stay in this country, and therefore it is quite reasonable that the residence permit can be withdrawn if you give up your residence in Denmark or if you leave Denmark for a longer period of time. This is guided by the Foreigners' Board, which is why you can easily adapt to it. According to the proposers, the withdrawal rules mean, among other things, that long-term foreigners in Denmark risk losing their residence permits and obtaining the status of a guest if they accept a job offer from abroad. I think that's something square. A derogation from the rules on cancellation is available if the stay abroad serves a well-founded purpose. This applies, among other things, if you leave Denmark because of work or as posted to a Danish authority, and this is also the case if you leave as a result of education and if you have a substantial link with the country as a result of many years' previous stay here, it is one of the reasons why an exemption from the withdrawal of the residence permit can be granted. A derogation may be applied for before, but also after the exit. The Foreigners' Board may grant a derogation for up to four years, but in exceptional cases a derogation may be granted for more than four years. I therefore believe that today's rules already provide a good opportunity to travel temporarily to work abroad. I should also like to point out that a new residence permit can also be applied for if the residence permit has lapsed. So, overall, it is my view and that of the government that, with the current rules on residence permits in the Aliens Act, a sensible balance has been found. This is a balance between, on the one hand, the conditions of a globalised labour market and, on the other hand, the need to continue to pursue strict immigration policies, and so I do not think there is any need to call the parties to discuss the rules of non-compliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427155241	There are no brief comments to be made to the Minister. Thank you. Then it's mr. Dan Jørgensen from the Social Democratic Party, who has the right to speak as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427155300	Thank you. I can do that very briefly. We do not immediately support the proposal. We are not sure that we can see a need, and we also feel insured by the Minister's speech here. However, we are, of course, very happy to listen to the rapporteur for the authors' arguments when she comes to the floor in a few moments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427155328	Thank you, sir. Dan Jørgensen, and welcome to Mr. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427155334	Thank you. The Danish People's Party cannot support the resolution. The motion for a resolution states that if you are not a Danish citizen and you are staying abroad for a period of more than 12 months, your residence permit will lapse. Then there are so different exemptions so that you can actually be out for a little longer if you have a good explanation of why you should be dispensed from the rules. And if you get an exemption from the rules, then the period can be extended. We in the Danish People's Party believe that the rules are fine as they are today. Should any changes be discussed, we in the Danish People's Party will probably emphasise that the current derogations are too far-reaching in our view. We may think that it is just as long as it is possible to obtain a derogation from the rules for up to four years. That's why it's gonna be a no from here. We were a little off already when we read the opening remarks on the proposal, which says that it must reflect the potential of a modern and globalised labour market. When we in the Danish People's Party see those words, we are already a little off. But the content itself means that we certainly cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427155447	Thank you, sir. Martin Henriksen, and welcome to Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427155455	How reassuring it is to hear the word modern used as a word of reproach! I shall then say about the proposal itself, in which the proposers call on the government to call for discussions on the rules on the waiver of residence permits, that what I have noticed most is that the proposers themselves write in the end that the Radical Left does not have a prior solution to the challenge, but looks forward to discussing opportunities among the parties. That is how the text has been formulated. Of course, I and the Left agree with the intention and the motion for a resolution, namely that Denmark must always ensure that our rules on residence permits reflect the conditions of the real globalised world. I just think that the government, as things are today, has already taken stock of it. We in the Left are great supporters of globalisation, and hopefully it will come as no surprise to anyone, and although we were not, globalisation would still be a reality that we would have to take stock of. But that does not mean that we say that if you have only once been granted a residence permit in Denmark, you keep it no matter what, because it must be the case that if you get a residence permit in Denmark, it is because somewhere you intend to do just that, that is to say, stay in Denmark, because what else would you have to do with a residence permit? So you have to be aware that your residence permit will lapse if you are not in Denmark, if you have left Denmark and are away for a long time. When I read the motion for a resolution, I also think that the authors of the motion paint a rather unmanageable picture of reality, because it is not the case that you start from scratch if you, as a foreigner, come back to Denmark. There are up to several derogations which allow the Foreigners' Board to grant a derogation if you wish to leave Denmark for a longer temporary period. I think the authors of this motion for a resolution are a little overlooked. That is why the position of the Left is that today there is a reasonable balance in the current rules, but of course the Left will be ready to listen to proposals if new, better and concrete solutions emerge. So there is none of this, as far as I can see, in this motion for a resolution, and that is why we are voting against the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427155728	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments, so I give the floor to Mr Seligman. Finn Sørensen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427155744	Thank you. The Unity List would like to thank the Radical Left for putting forward this proposal which we support. People who are active in the labour market and in the education system are now travelling far more today than they did in the 1980s when the rules on the withdrawal of residence permits for longer periods of residence were laid down. It is therefore only the case that people who live in Denmark without Danish citizenship, but who have lived here for many years, are faced with a quite different situation from Danish citizens when it comes to the possibility of joining in the new times, if I may put it that way, i.e. by taking up jobs or seeking training outside Denmark's borders. For without a Danish citizenship you risk losing the right to reside here again, if you stay abroad for more than 12 months, regardless of whether you have spent many years or perhaps your whole life in Denmark until you took this stay abroad. It is true that there is the possibility of a derogation, but the law does not contain clear rules as to when a derogation is granted. That is entirely up to the discretion of the immigration authorities. That is why we agree with the proposers that the current legislation is obsolete, too tight and unclear. So we can support the proposal, and then I would like to stress that it is very softly formulated, and we think that is also sensible in this situation. Because it's hard to draw exactly what it's supposed to be like. That is why it makes sense to try to convince a majority and the government that now we have to sit down and talk about how we can clarify these rules. After all, there is not a square way to do it. One way could be to describe much more clearly what the derogations are. This would also increase legal certainty for citizens who had to make a choice to move abroad for a period of time. This could also be done by rocking it, I think, a tight limit of 12 months. That limits the possibilities of trying things out. All that stuff could be negotiated. I do not really think it is a good idea for the government and it is a good idea for the majority to not even sit down and discuss it. After all, the Minister described what the conditions are for exemption, and that sounded like very reasonable principles, and they could then be written into the legislation and described more clearly. So I think there are some possibilities for creating more up-to-date legislation, and I am sorry that there is already a majority against it in the Chamber so briefly. It's a little depressing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427160029	Thank you, sir. Finn Sørensen. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Laura Lindahl, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427160034	The Liberal Alliance agrees with the proposers that it contributes positively to Danish society when people choose to go out into the world to work or train and then return home a lot of good experiences richer. As the rules are today, a derogation from the provisions on cancellations can be granted if the stay abroad serves a well-founded purpose. The assessment of what is a well-founded purpose includes, among other things, whether the stay abroad is due to work or study, and how much the relationship with Denmark is. I agree, however, that it may be sensible to look at the possibility of derogations: what are the options? Are they ready enough? Do you know what your options are? And should we relax the exemption requirements that exist today? So we share the intention completely. I would also like to say that I agree with the Minister that it is fair that if you get a residence permit in Denmark, then the starting point is that you stay in Denmark, but of course it must be possible to travel either through work or study for a period of time. I am not sure whether I think that the rules on the withdrawal of residence permits should be changed, because I think that a good balance has actually been achieved. However, I think it makes good sense to look at the derogations and also, as Enhedslisten's rapporteur, to mention legal certainty, so that there is clarity and transparency in this area, so that we know what opportunities there are. So we do not support the concrete proposal to call the parties for a specific discussion, but we share the intention and I think it is very good to put such a proposal on the agenda because it puts the subject on the agenda and draws attention to an issue which we may need to consider more carefully.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427160227	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427160237	Thank you to the Radicals for presenting this motion for a resolution, which is, of course, a proposal that the government should call the parties for a discussion on how to regulate the withdrawal of residence permits and the possibility of derogations, so that the rules reflect more fully the potential of a modern globalised labour market. As the rules are today, a citizen with a foreign background and residence in Denmark loses his or her residence permit in Denmark if he or she stays either 6 or 12 consecutive months abroad, depending on how long he or she has lived legally in Denmark. And then it is quite correct, as has also been mentioned here, that there is the possibility of a derogation for up to four years if otherwise the stay is deemed to have a so-called well-founded purpose. The derogation is granted on the basis of an estimate, i.e. on a case-by-case basis. In the alternative, we fully agree that there is a need to look at the rules, because in our view, it follows from the rules in force that a Danish citizen with a foreign background, such as the United Kingdom, has a right to vote in local elections. has contributed to the Danish labour market a full working life and which has been married and has established a family in Denmark and is still resident in Denmark, possibly with his or her spouse, simply risk losing his or her residence permit if he or she accepts a job offer abroad, which lasts a little longer. Speaking of the discussions we have just had that we would like to attract foreign labour to Denmark, and that there are also other countries that would like to have some of our good employees • we would like to be able to exchange employees across the board so I think it is quite justified that we deal with this issue. We live in a more global world, we want to become more involved in a global world, and therefore it is quite obvious that we must have up-to-date and non-rigid legislation that opens up for this to be done without risking losing your residence permit. And that is why I would like to follow the Radical Left's proposal to call on the government to call for a debate on it here. I have already heard, of course, that the Minister does not think there is a need, and then I would suggest to the Radical Left that we might agree on a report in committee which signals some of these things. The alternative would certainly like to be a part of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427160453	Thank you to Mrs Josephine Fock. No more rapporteurs have asked to speak, and that is why it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427160508	Thank you for that, President, and thank you for your contributions. This is in no way a polemical call, nor do I see that neither the Minister nor the rapporteur have taken it down. This is, of course, the opportunity available as a party in opposition and as a member of the Folketing to have a debate on something that we in the Radical Left consider very crucial for how we are going to organise ourselves on the future, and, in other words, today's labour market. One might think that words such as modern and globalised are not attractive, I could understand by the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, but I just think it has to be said that globalisation is here, it has been a long time and it helps to open up the world. And for a very, very many people, this means that the national borders are no longer the ones that limit where you choose to work or train or who you want to marry, but that is not part of this proposal. But working life itself and family life have been given a new framework, and you choose to work abroad for some periods and then return home and contribute. I think that the Prime Minister, and I have also written this in the comments on this motion for a resolution, described it very well in his New Year's speech with the story of his own son, who had just completed a bachelor's degree and could now make himself with both Danish and foreign friends with a come-an-world attitude. And there are many people who have it. But as the rules for residence permits are today, people who have a residence permit and lived for many years in Denmark and feel not only very strong ties, but have their family and lives in Denmark, can only to a limited extent take advantage of the opportunities to take a job across borders and train themselves to the opportunities offered by globalisation. For if you are not a Danish citizen and you are staying abroad for a continuous period of more than 12 months, or if you have only been in Denmark for a shorter period, and then it is 6 months, then your residence permit will lapse. Then the Minister also explained that a derogation can be applied for if the stay has a well-founded purpose, and that is training and work after all. A maximum of 4 years of derogation can be granted. But how it is to be given and what can be further done is not really an exhaustive rule. In other words, when can the derogation be obtained further? It is a discretionary assessment where a case-by-case assessment has to be made. I have received many requests and have many examples of people having problems here. But we also had a specific case with Trudy from North Jutland and her family, who, like the Prime Minister's son, just arrived, the world. Their great sons, born and raised as Danish citizens, study in different countries. Trudy's husband Dane, Danish citizen, nordjyde has worked in different countries and is doing so now, and she herself has worked as a teacher in Saudi Arabia and has been granted an exemption a number of times and has had a view that it could be extended. But it couldn't. They have lived in Denmark for 20 years. And there's for that family nowhere else that feels like home. She is then made a tourist and guest in the country she has been in for a very long time, but has a job in another country. This is where she returns to; this is where her family is, even if they stay in different places on the globe because they train and work. It is also in the light of the discussions that we have had so far, therefore, the whole ambition that we should promote the opportunities that come to us that we should not limit, we believe, people, but support, acknowledge that there are plenty of people who have the courage and desire to travel abroad and seek foreign experiences, and who have not only a strong and long-standing connection with Denmark, but in everything is and feel Danish, even if they do not have Danish citizenship, but they have a Danish family, Danish children, Danish husband, Danish house and have nothing else in the world, but are probably born in another country. What is crucial for us as a country and for the opportunities of those people should not be a citizenship, but a link with Denmark, which is so obvious, namely marriages concluded across nationalities. And no matter what you think of words such as modern and globalisation, it may not be what we stop by failing to grant residence permits to people. Love usually knows no boundaries, and people, I believe, do not stop for the future to travel and train and work and meet each other. That's why we want to have this discussion and actually just invite you to a discussion about whether or not we could look a little bit at some of the requirements and rules we have here. I find it very difficult to get the balance between a tight immigration policy and a labour market that goes across borders to rhyme with people who have lived most of their lives in Denmark and had children and often married, and who have then got work outside the borders • people who have not at any time been burdened with Danish society, but have been more taxpayers and a gain can't get a residence permit here. Therefore, could we not specifically look at whether the derogations could be a little more flexible with a longer deadline, perhaps a fixed track, so that if you have only once received a derogation and are still working in another country, but have a connection with Denmark, you automatically get a renewal of your residence permit exemption. It's just small things that could make it a little easier to be in Denmark with your Danish children and family, even if you were born in another country and have taken a job in a third, fourth or fifth, or are educating yourself. These must be some of the things that could make it just a little more flexible and meaningful for us, which is a small open economy in a world that only becomes more cross-border. I am happy to be content with words such as modern and globalised, if that means more opportunities for more people, and that is what we are working for with this resolution. I will follow the alternative's call and try to make a report where we might just suggest that this is something we can go ahead with, as I also heard both the Minister and the rapporteurs of the Left, the Liberal Alliance, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative back up. I do not need to be called to a meeting room with the Minister if the Minister does not have any interest whatsoever in it, but I would really, really like us to suggest that it is not intended that people should be thrown out or feel like guests in Denmark when they have their whole association, their family here and have not at any time been a burden on our economy, but rather a benefit to our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427161443	Mr President, there is one brief comment. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427161448	I understand the problem, but I think the rapporteur is just about to comb about. Because if you have your whole association with Denmark, if you have lived most of your life in Denmark, if you have a Danish man, Danish children and a Danish house We just have to remember that. Trudy, as we are talking about, could have done that, and then there would have been no problems. After all, it is not the case that there are no solutions to the problem that is being put forward. At the same time, she did not have to give up her second citizenship because we have just been given the opportunity of dual citizenship. So now we have to be careful that we don't blow this problem out of proportion. So, in a situation such as this one, which Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen is talking about, there is also the possibility of having citizenship, even dual citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427161547	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427161550	That is quite correct, and thank you for Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen asks the question, for it was also Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen and others who, like this, stressed that if you have a residence permit in Denmark, it must mean that you want to stay in Denmark. Yes, and so have we, in this case, for 20 years. And others will do it and go in and out. But in general, it is just my view that we are going to see many, many more people who are going to travel in and out. And why is it that it has to be so difficult for these people to have a stay, a house, a family, all of this? Yes, they could be encouraged to apply for citizenship, but why should they? Why is it that we want to prevent people from staying here? I just don't understand why it should be so difficult and that obstacles should be put in the way? It seems a little more symbolic than it seems meaningful.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427161651	Then it's mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, who may not have asked for a brief comment, just pressed in. When you get in, you get the floor, of course, if you want it. Thank you to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427161724	The debate is open. Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427161741	With this motion for a resolution, the Danish People's Party proposes that the government should submit a bill to amend and clarify the law on citizenship, so that it is clear from the law that Syrienskriger can be denied their Danish citizenship. The government's attitude towards Syrians and Danish citizenship is clear. Syrian warriors do not deserve Having a Danish citizenship is a gift and it deserves respect. That is why it is already the case today that it is possible, under the law of citizenship, to deny Syrians their citizenship. Thus, it is apparent from the law of citizenship that the person convicted of a violation of the provisions of Chapters 12 and 13 of the Criminal Code may be deprived of his nationality by judgment unless he thereby becomes stateless. Chapters 12 and 13 of the Criminal Code relate, inter alia, to: crimes against the State's independence and security, the Constitution and the other state authorities, as well as terrorism. By amending Article 12 of the Penal Code in 2015, it was criminalised to join an armed force for a party that is fighting against the Danish state in an armed conflict to which Denmark is a party, and it also includes adherence to IS. The amendment of the law was adopted by votes from among others. The Danish People's Party, and I would, of course, like to sign for that. The aim of the legislation was to clarify that it is treason against Denmark when the so-called alien warriors, including Syrian warriors, join an enemy armed force fighting against the Danish state. This also applies when the armed force belongs to a non-governmental player and where the fighting takes place outside Denmark. The new provision on membership of such armed forces, together with the other provisions of the Criminal Code on treason and terror, is covered by Article 8B of the Law on the disqualification of nationality. Therefore, a person can already be denied his Danish nationality by judgment if, in an armed conflict to which the Danish State is a party, he joins the Islamic State in a fight against the Danish state. I fully share the wish of the authors of the motion that Danish citizens who are fighting against Denmark or committing terrorism should be able to renounce their Danish citizenship. That is why I am very pleased that our courts are using the possibilities available to them. We saw this only in March of this year when Østre Landsret denied a 25-year-old Danish-Turkish man his Danish citizenship because he enlisted for Islamic State in Syria. It is my clear opinion that no Syrians should be able to retain their Danish citizenship. Their actions are grossly disloyal to Denmark. We are guilty of crimes against the state, for example. treason and terrorism, and then you should no longer be able to call yourself Danish. That is why the law is designed as it is, and I fully support it. I therefore share the views underlying the motion for a resolution, but what is proposed in the motion for a resolution is already possible today. The Government cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution to amend or clarify the rules for the disqualification of citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427162133	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427162138	I think that is simply not true, I would say to the Minister. In other words, this is a clarification and I am aware that it follows what is already the case. But I do not agree with that. As the case stands today, it must be proved that they have taken part in terrorist activities aimed at the Danish state, and that is also what is in Chapters 12 and 13. What we are saying is that associating with the Islamic State and going down there in itself is an expression of terrorist activity. In other words, it is a tightening-up, and it is a clarification of the situation in which it is established that you are leaving, you risk actually losing your citizenship no matter what you do.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427162227	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427162230	If that is the case, I would say that it is also a rejection by the government, because there is no doubt that we live in a rule of law and, of course, in a state governed by the rule of law we must prove the crimes that exist before we judge. That's gotta be it. And therefore such an administrative disqualification of Danish citizenship, without there being any evidence, could not happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427162256	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427162259	Well, I do not think that should surprise the Minister was what was meant by the proposal, because I have actually explained that to the Minister. So it shouldn't come as a surprise. Our simple observation in relation to this is that if you sympathize with those conditions and take down and are on the side of Islamic State, you join in per. the definition of a terrorist company and a terrorist organisation, and then we must be able to disclaim citizenship, just as if we were to join, among other things. Al-Nusra-Front or other terrorist organisations located in the same bed as the Islamic State.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427162339	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427162342	Well, now Mr. Christian Langballe, that he could see it here, and then I can only say that we live in a state governed by the rule of law, and in a state governed by the rule of law we have the courts for that sort of thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427162352	Then it's mr. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427162400	Thank you. Basically, the Folketing could put forward a bill which deprived individuals of their Danish citizenship on the basis of the instructions: What is given by law, of course, can also be taken from people again by law. So I think that would be entirely in line with the rule of law if that method of progress were to be chosen. But I understand that the Minister will not support the proposal in question, and that is why I would like to hear whether the government will work in other ways to make it easier to deprive people of citizenship, which we know has been down and, for example, had something to do with the Islamic State.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427162427	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427162430	I can say that in relation to what lies within the scope of the courts, I always think it is possible to discuss it, but we live in a rule of law, and that is why things must also be done in the right way. I would like to say that I believe that it is not compatible with having a Danish citizenship to be a terrorist, or if you have gone to Syria to fight, but it has to be something that the courts are judging. And as the resolution is here, we will certainly not be able to support it, but we can always discuss whether it is possible to clarify things, so it is easier to withdraw Danish citizenship. But so, we have some principles, and we have to live up to them, and I'll guess that by the end of the day, the Danish People's Party and Mr. Martin Henriksen also thought: it is perhaps good to live in a constitutional state. That's all we usually fight for.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427162527	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427162530	Yes, it is good to live in a state governed by law sometimes one may have some doubts as to whether we do so when one looks at what is allowed around society, but it is probably a slightly different discussion. But I would still say that, if you put forward a bill because you want to take the citizenship of x and y, which has been awarded it at some point, you can do it well, I think it can be within the scope of the constitution. But that's something you can discuss. But am I to understand what the Minister is saying that the government cannot support this motion for a resolution? I am in favour of this, but that the government will be prepared to discuss other models which will make it easier to deprive Danish citizenship, for example, of people with whom we know we have been down to associate, in various ways working with the Islamic State?
ParlaMint-DK_20170427162613	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427162616	The government discusses everything with the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427162619	With that statement, we thank the Minister and start with the rapporteur's line. Then it's first, sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427162643	When I took the floor earlier, it was because I was just so eager to get this debate started that I had to get up, but I had to wait until it became my turn. The Social Democrats share the concern of the proposers that returned Syrians may pose a very serious terrorist threat. That is why, in our reign, we also introduced a series of initiatives that allowed the police to refuse to issue passports if there were suspicions that they would go to Syria as a holy warrior and join the Islamic State. We provided for the possibility of including passports and we also provided for the possibility of supplementing it with a definite exit ban. So we very much share the concerns that have also been expressed in the proposal. This is also, of course, why the Social Democrats voted in favour of the 2016 proposal by the Left Government to impose an entry ban on certain of the selected conflict areas in Syria and Iraq, where the Islamic State is active. All of this is the initiative taken with the aim of preventing and also punishing Danish nationals who travel to conflict areas abroad in order to participate in activities which threaten both their ability and their willingness to commit serious criminal offences, such as terrorism when they return to Denmark. So far we share the concerns of the proposers, we take this issue very seriously. If, however, we cannot support the proposalers' wish to clarify the law of citizenship, it is because, as the Minister also mentioned, we naturally insist that we live in a community of law, that is, that there must be a court process prior to imposing sanctions on Danish citizens by depriving them of their nationality. I also think it can be said that the proposal, as the Minister also mentioned, to some extent kicks in an open door, because, as the Minister also mentioned, it is possible to deprive Syrians of their Danish citizenship. We saw this most recently at the Østre Landsret on 31 March this year, when a 25-year-old Danish-Turkish man lost his Danish citizenship precisely because he had gone to Syria where he joined the Islamic State. So it is possible today, after a legal process, to withdraw citizenship. I therefore believe that the proposal, as it stands in writing, kicks in an open door and, although there may be more to the proposal, possibly administratively depriving citizenship, we cannot support the proposal, even though we share many of the intentions expressed by the concerns expressed by the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427162923	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427162927	There are, of course, many toastings with many obscene words, and I therefore think that both the Minister's remarks and the rapporteur's remarks are outside the scope of the discussion. The people who go down there have nothing to do down there. They're not going down there. Danish citizens are not going to fight on the side of Islamic State finished, over. And I don't want them to associate themselves with the terrorist movement that the Islamic State has completed. And if we are finally talking about the rule of law, I believe that the aim of the rule of law is to protect Denmark and the legal state that applies in Denmark. These people who come home from down there are a very large potential threat to Danish society, so I think that this is in line with some people's speeches about the protection of the rule of law, yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427163032	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427163033	Thank you. I don't know if those were plumbing words. It must surely be very appropriate from Parliament's platform to talk about that we have a community of law and also welcome it. I agree with the authors that Danish citizens should not take down and join the Islamic State. They certainly shouldn't. I also agree with the authors of the motion that if you do so and return home, you constitute a serious security threat, a serious risk of terrorism being committed, and that is, of course, what we must protect our country, our citizens from. That is precisely why we have drawn up a law which allows Danish nationals to be deprived of their nationality if they are convicted of any of it. That is also why we have provided for the possibility of refusing the issue of passports, the possibility of withdrawing passports, and the possibility of granting an exit ban if we suspect that such a thing is imminent. So I do not really believe that there is so much between my own position and the position of the authors of the motion for a resolution on Syrians.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427163136	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427163139	It may well be that this is being kicked out to the corner, but with so many other things that the Danish People's Party has proposed, I am sure that we will get to the end of it, because what is just the matter is that we live in a time of terror, and it is therefore now a question of people sympathising with Islamic State opening fire in France with a Kalashnikov, where they step out and just start shooting away. It is not a state of the rule of law that I cannot live with, and I think the rapporteur agrees with me on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427163215	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427163218	It is not my belief that so much has been elected a single member of the Folketing who can live with or does not care that violent, inhuman terrorist attacks are committed in Nice, Stockholm, London and even Copenhagen. I think we need to make that clear. I don't think any of my colleagues can live with that. That is also why, if you go down and join the Islamic State, you can have your Danish citizenship withdrawn, because of course you have no right to do so if you do something so disloyal in relation to the rule of law.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427163253	Thank you, sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen. There are no more brief comments. Then we move on to Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427163310	Thank you. In order not to forget this, I must begin by greeting the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party and saying that they agree with what I am about to say. And it's always nice to have someone who agrees with you. If you read the comments on Dansk Folkeparti's motion for a resolution, you can read an excerpt from an interview with the head of PET's Center for Terror Analysis... he's called Søren Jensen... and the interview was in Politiken last spring. In the interview, the head of the PET explains that at least 135 people from Denmark are what we call Syrian warriors and that the people who go to Syria to participate in terrorist acts on the side of the so-called Islamic State have become more dangerous. This is a very worrying development, and the Left wants all Syrians to be thrown as far out of Denmark as possible if they are stupid enough to return. They are traitors who do not deserve to be nationals of the country they have betrayed. We will not accept the return of these traitors to Denmark. You are a disgrace to Denmark. They are a threat to Denmark. They need to get out. That is why, in the relatively short time in which the Left has been in government, we have consistently adopted austerity measures which introduce punishments and criminalise new conditions. Let me give just a few examples. We have inserted a provision in the penal code on treason. It criminalises separately that a Danish national or resident foreigner is affiliated with an enemy armed force that fights against the Danish state or recruits others to do the same. We have passed a law that increases the scope for police intelligence to monitor whether persons with possible ties to terrorist activities are on their way to and from Denmark. We have adjusted the possibilities of prohibiting entry and residence in certain areas of conflict without prior authorisation. So in the Left we do not hold back from making the necessary austerity measures to combat the Syrian warriors. The rules work, and on 31 March 2017, we got proof when a 25-year-old Danish-Turkish man in Østre Landsret lost his Danish citizenship because he had gone to Syria to join the Islamic State and commit terrorist acts. So it is already possible to take the pass from the Syrian warriors, and so the proposal from the Danish People's Party kicks in a door that stands pistols. Therefore, it does not make much sense to adopt the motion for a resolution from DF, as there is no need for legislative changes to achieve what DF wants and in which we agree with DF. The Left will therefore vote against the motion for a resolution. Well, now I can understand Mr. Knox. Christian Langballe, that we really want to go further, that is to say that it must be possible to take away citizenship administratively. We do not think so. There must be a conviction that something has been committed which is covered by Chapters 12 and 13 of the Criminal Code, i.e. crimes against the security of the State. So this is not an administrative decision. It takes a court of law to do that. We live in a state governed by the rule of law, and I think we should all be very happy about that. On the other hand, I have to recommend to the Danish People's Party that it revise its opposition to dual citizenship. Because if you want to throw out Syrian warriors, you have to have a place to throw them away. In other words, only in cases where a Syrian warrior has a different citizenship next to the Danish one can one expel him. Because you can deport him to stateless little. We cannot simply deport him to some country in which he is no longer a national. It is almost self-evident, and it is also apparent from the stateless Convention. So, if the Danish People's Party gets its wish that you should not have dual citizenship, it will be the end of expelling Syrians who are Danish citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427163700	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427163705	This is nonsense; now things and debates have to be mixed together. I think that's just bullshit. Now I will try to be a little positive and ask the Left something. So, I think it is a problem that the burden of proof is turning around in such a way that the Danish state must prove that these people have participated in terrorist acts when they arrive in the Islamic State's territory. There you could turn it around and say that the fact that they are there is, in itself, a participation in terrorist activities. I am trying to think a little constructively on top of the nonsense that the rapporteur was told.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427163758	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427163802	Nonsense? Where's Mr. Keating? Christian Langballe from that? If you deprive people of their Danish citizenship and they do not have another, they are stateless, and then you cannot show them out, because then there is no country to show them to. It's not that hard to understand, so it has nothing to do with nonsense and nonsense. It cannot be that one hand in the Danish People's Party does not know what the other hand is doing. There has to be a connection, and there isn't. There is no head and tail in the policy of the Danish People's Party, because we cannot, on the one hand, ban dual citizenship and, on the other, say that we must expel Danish citizens who have committed terrorism. It just doesn't add up. I have to say that. It has nothing to do with nonsense and nonsense. That's the way it is. As to whether we can do more to help raise the burden of proof that terrorism has been committed, it is possible that there is something to look at there. But it must be the case that you are innocent until proven guilty. This applies to all cases, and this applies, of course, not least to the most serious cases involving terrorism. I think we basically agree on that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427163905	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427163908	In other words, what annoys me about the rapporteur's assertion is that we can now start discussing dual citizenship. I simply disagree with that premise, and I have then also informed the rapporteur in the second context, in other words that the only discussion about dual citizenship is about throwing someone out. I simply do not think that this is the only discussion that is going on in relation to what citizenship is, and so I would not wish it to be made some kind of idiot, as I am saying here, that I maintain single citizenship. I think this is a strange derailment of the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427163946	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427163949	I understand that it is annoying to be made aware of the consequences of your policy. I understand that, but these are the consequences. Then it is fair to say that it is so important for one to combat dual citizenship that people have only one citizenship that one is willing to pay the price, which is that one cannot then expel terrorists. Because you can't take citizenship away from them because they don't have anything else. That is fair enough; then you can weigh things up. But you cannot pretend that it has no consequences if you remove dual citizenship. It is therefore the consequence that terrorists cannot then be expelled if they are Danish citizens. You cannot take citizenship away from them because they do not have another citizenship, and then there is no country to which you can point them.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427164027	Thank you, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen. There are no more brief comments, and we move on to Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427164036	The Enhedslisten cannot support this motion for a resolution. The people on whom the proposal is about have lived in this country for many years, perhaps all their lives, and it is not reasonable for us to see that Denmark as a country disclaims responsibility for them and sends them to another country. The Enhedslisten generally believes that we should be very reluctant to deprive people of their Danish citizenship. If it has been achieved by fraud, we think it makes sense, but we are, in fact, critical of the existing possibility in Article 8b of the law on citizenship to deprive people of citizenship because they have violated the provisions of Chapter 12 or 13 of the penal code, i.e. crimes against the security of the state, etc. It is also difficult to understand the meaning of this motion for a resolution, as the Minister has also pointed out, because the rules on prohibiting people from entering certain areas adopted by the Danish Parliament last year against the Enhedslisten, Alternativet, De Radicale and SF votes are in Chapter 13 of the Criminal Code. It is therefore already possible to deprive people of their Danish nationality if they enter these prohibited areas, and the Minister pointed this out in his speech, as I said. We are therefore in the Enhedslisten against the proposal for two reasons, partly because we believe that we should be careful in general to deprive people of their citizenship, partly because the proposal seems completely pointless, since last year a majority in the Danish Parliament has already created the legal situation that the Danish People's Party wants in this area. And then I will end by backing Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen from the Left quite up: It is absurd from the Danish People's Party on the one hand to be opposed to having citizenship in two places, and on the other hand to talk over and over again about having more people deprived of their citizenship and being sent out. For where would they be sent if they did not have citizenship somewhere else? If the Danish People's Party got its way and got the decision that you cannot have dual citizenship, then the proposal we are debating today would be meaningless, because those people could then not be sent anywhere. We do not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427164316	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427164324	Thank you. With this proposal, the proposers, the Danish People's Party, want the government to be required to make legislative proposals in order to amend and clarify the law on Danish citizenship, so that it is clear from the law that it is possible to deprive Syrians of their Danish citizenship to the extent that the person concerned is not made stateless thereby. As the law is today we've heard that several times now... you can lose your Danish citizenship if you, for example, lose your Danish citizenship. either lied when it was acquired, or if one commits crimes against the security of the state, and since 2004 the courts have had the opportunity to denounce Danes their citizenship if they are convicted of terrorism or terrorist-related crimes. I think we have heard several times here today that in 2015 the 55-year-old Sam Mansour was sentenced to four years in prison for calling for terror, and he was also deprived of his citizenship and was therefore expelled from Denmark forever. He had dual citizenship and therefore could be sent to Morocco without making him stateless. In March of this year, a 25-year-old man had his Danish citizenship withdrawn from Østre Landsret to be recruited by the terrorist organisation Islamic State, and the 25-year-old was Danish-Turkish and born and raised in Denmark. The case has been appealed to the Supreme Court. Nationality means that as a person you have the same rights as other Danes in the state. Danish citizenship means that you are a Dane. It is not a gift, you are not a guest in Denmark, you are a Dane. So, regardless of the fact that in the alternative, of course, we do not approve of terrorism, we are, in general terms, quite critical of the possibility of depriving Danish citizens, especially those born and raised in Denmark, of their citizenship, unless there is fraud, as has also been mentioned by the Enhedslisten. The withdrawal of the Danish citizenship of the 25-year-old Danish Turk shows that it is already possible to deprive Syrians of their Danish citizenship on the basis of an assessment of the individual's relationship with Denmark. So I would say that it is unclear to us what the Danish People's Party really wants to achieve with this proposal, and we cannot, of course, support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427164614	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Lotte Rod, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427164622	Thank you. I think it is crazy that anyone can go to Syria and fight against everything I believe in and against us as a country. That is why it is also right for people to be able to take the passport away from people and, in fact, also to be able to take the citizenship of people who do so as long as they do not become stateless. As the Minister and all the other rapporteurs have said, it is already possible to take the citizenship of Syrians who have been convicted. What the Danish People's Party is proposing here is that you should also be able to take it from people who have not been convicted. It's not gonna work. For me it is completely out in the hemp that the Danish People's Party will in this way do away with one of the most fundamental principles that is in a free country, namely that you are innocent until you are convicted. So for once, the Radical Left and the Minister for Integration are in agreement. I really appreciate it when it happens. So, like all the other rapporteurs in this Chamber today, the Radical Left is rejecting this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427164731	There are also no brief comments here, so we move on to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427164739	Thank you. Let me make it clear that in the SF we take the terrorist threat seriously. We want to prevent and combat terrorism. And no, we cannot love all threats away, threats must be fought with wise leadership, but also with a wise and respectful debate. I am confident that the current rules dealt with by the police and PET and the courts can adequately meet the purpose of this motion for a resolution. It is already possible to deprive a citizen of citizenship unless the citizen becomes a stateless person, but this must, of course, be done on a factual basis. The SF does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427164818	Thank you to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427164826	Thank you, President. I would like to start by thanking you for the debate, although I did not achieve what I wanted to do. I would also like to say that when the rapporteur on the Radical Left says that what the Danish People's Party is proposing is completely out of hand, I think that we are on the right track, because when the Radicals really puff themselves up, it is because something has been done right. That's my relationship with this proposal. I am quite sure that at some point this proposal will take root, because I simply believe that the problems are far too serious for them to disappear on their own. It can be said that the factual point of departure for us to have this discussion at all today is that for a number of years a majority of Parliament's parties have been sharing citizenship with people whom they had no idea who was, nor did they know what the conditions were. After all, it is in itself the accident that makes us now discussing something where it is very difficult to roll things back. This is incredibly difficult, and one cannot just start afresh when one has given citizenship to various people and Islamists who only want to hurt the Danish state. We have discussed this and we are going to discuss it here in the future, that is, that there are people who, through the extreme preaching of the Grimhøjmoske, are being recruited to go down to the Islamic State, and there it is my point and our point as a party that associating with it down there and going down there is criminalising in itself. You don't go down to the front of the Islamic State to look at strange floral species or anything else, you go down there, of course, because you sympathize with them. I think we are just going to see that the whole terrorist activity that is taking place in Western countries and in Europe is increasing more and more. Then I'd like to address Jan E. Jørgensen. We are very much in agreement with the Left on many points, and I would like to commend that, but it is not true when he presents it in the way he does. Firstly, the discussion of what citizenship is is absolutely fundamental and crucial. For us it is so that if you have Danish citizenship, it is because you absolutely and undividedly connect yourself with Denmark and that you are loyal to Danish society. Then you can, if people have dual citizenship, always throw them out, but the thing is, and I have to remind you of that, and that is the reality of the iron industry, which I would not make any difference to these countries. In Morocco we cannot simply renounce our citizenship, as indeed is the case in Turkey. I had to look at the Turkish law and it says that you cannot simply renounce your citizenship, that is very difficult. And that is why, in relation to many people who have come up with these extreme positions from the Middle East, dual citizenship has already been granted. So that discussion is just another, dear sir. Jan E. Jørgensen, this is another discussion, I think. Now I'm so sure I'm gonna get a question from sir. Jan E. Jørgensen, and then I'll answer it again.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427165227	Well, that's what we've come to. Here you go, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427165233	Thank you. I just want to confirm that we look very similar on the issue of Syrian squires. They deserve our contempt and not so much else, and the more we can get thrown out, the better it is. But if they don't have dual citizenship, we can't throw them out. That's how far I assume we agree. Then it is true that there were some who, before we adopted the dual citizenship law, had dual citizenship because they could not be solved from their former citizenship, for example because they had not yet served military service. Then I can understand that sir... Christian Langballe has already read up on Turkish legislation. I didn't realize that Mr. Christian Langballe mastered Turkish, but that's how you can be so surprised. Let us examine it further, but that does not change the whole premise, namely that the only option we have for expelling people, if they have Danish citizenship, is that they also have citizenship elsewhere, and if dual citizenship is prevented, then at least those people will be prevented from being expelled.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427165334	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427165337	I am not going to repeat what I have just said, but we will have the discussion in this Chamber and then we will have to take it from there. There I would like to discuss it, and I am quite sure that the rapporteur will remember the discussion we have had today and then we can take it up again. I still want to stand by the views I have. Besides, I don't know Turkish. I cannot do that, but I have been looking at the Turkish embassy's website, and I think I have certainly been able to see that there are some problems with being solved from Turkish citizenship. But there are quite a few countries that do. It is in many countries that it has been a problem, but it does not change the fact that our view on individual citizenship is so fundamental and so fundamental that we will stick to it. I do not think that is a contradiction. I believe that there is complete agreement between what we are proposing today and our position on individual citizenship. That's just the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427165436	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427165440	Then there isn't. So we have seen terrorists who have the nationality of countries other than Turkey and Morocco, the countries we are talking about. There are terrorists with French citizenship, American citizenship, etc., so there will be people who cannot be expelled because there is no place to deport them. Then we can discuss the extent of the problem and I have full respect for the fact that the Danish People's Party is against dual citizenship. We just disagree, that's fair enough, but it has consequences. You can't get around that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427165513	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427165516	So it is just a matter of some things that they are so serious that they are not simply shattered, and that is the starting point. We are fully aware that all the problems in the world will not be solved by a single legislative measure. I mean, it could give itself the guts, but that's just our premise.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427165538	Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427165542	After all, there are countries that do not want to solve their own citizens from their citizenship, or it may be that they are people who have fled from war and therefore have no opportunity to return and say: can you just free me from my citizenship? But if Danish People's Party were to decide if it was now DF's dream scenario that we were talking about here, would there be some people in Denmark who had dual citizenship, that is, a Danish citizenship and another citizenship?
ParlaMint-DK_20170427165610	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427165612	We can start discussing all sorts of hypotheticals, but the interesting thing is, and it's a little alarming that Enhedslisten always spends time discussing such twisted hypotheses and doesn't actually present their own point of view in this area. I don't think I've ever heard that. But you can ask tricky questions and such rather funny questions to other rapporteurs without ever presenting your own policy in this area. I can't wait to hear that. The day I hear it, I raise my own little flag.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427165652	I'm sorry, but there's only 1⁄2 minutes left. Here you go, Mrs. Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427165656	The rapporteur was now very much involved in the rapporteur's speech I gave. The rapporteur was excited that was my impression and was discussing some issues with Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen from the Left right here in the corner. However, the rapporteur has the opportunity to go to the Danish Parliament's website and see and hear the rapporteur's speech I gave, where I told you what Enhedslisten's position on this issue is. But what I am asking is whether it is not true that if the Danish People's Party were to decide, we would have a situation where you could not have dual citizenship. When this question is relevant, it is because, if there is no possibility of dual citizenship, you cannot deport these people anywhere. In other words, there are two proposals which are simply not linked. They can't be reconciled. If that is not correct, I have to ask Mr. Christian Langballe, that if a human being only has citizenship in Denmark, is there no country to send that human being to?
ParlaMint-DK_20170427165749	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427165752	I'm not excited now. I'm committed. So was I when I spoke to Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen. There are simply some things on which we disagree. But what I just think is unbelievable is that the Enhedslisten did not • and I actually heard the rapporteur's speech • put forward their own policy in this area. It's basically always absent. It flatters in the wind what you really want, and then you have a lot of critical questions for others. It is okay that you always want to criticize, but never contribute constructively to something yourself. But that is the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427165831	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Christian Langballe. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Bodily Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427165845	The debate is open, and that is the Minister for the Environment and Food.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427165902	Thank you for that, and thank you to the SF, the Radical Left, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative for highlighting an important topic such as plastic contamination. Plastic pollution and microplastics are a highly topical policy area at national and international level, both in the public's awareness, in NGOs and in the plastics and recycling industry. There is broad agreement that this is an important matter. I also very much agree that plastic does not belong in our food or in nature, and I will work for and since I became Minister for the Environment and Food, I have done so to limit the spread of plastic. Plastic pollution is a global problem that requires global action on many fronts. We need to have a better understanding of what is happening to the plastic, from the chemistry used to manufacture it and to which products the plastic is incorporated. The aim is to be better at avoiding the growing amounts of waste so that we do not pollute and waste resources unnecessarily. Already 1 year ago, I, along with my Nordic ministerial colleagues, issued a joint statement on the importance of action against marine plastic waste and microplastics. In addition, in December 2016, the Nordic Ministers sent a joint letter to the European Commission expressing support for and interest in the implementation of the proposed circular economy package. And right now, in the interests of the European Commission, the Nordic countries are in the process of adopting a Nordic proposal for the EU's future plastic strategy. At the Nordic Council of Ministers on 2 May, a Nordic plastic programme is expected to be adopted and includes participation in the CleanSeas campaign under the United Nations Environment Programme, which runs over the next 5 years. The campaign will focus in particular on solving the problems of plastic and microplastics in the oceans by focusing on the source. Among other things, it has to be done. • to promote the use of new technologies and new technologies, in particular in the field of health and safety at work, and in the field of health and safety at work. The circular economic package has plastic as a separate priority, and in January the European Commission published a roadmap for an EU strategy for plastic, looking at the overall scale of the problem and where the proposed initiatives support each step of the plastic life cycle. The plastic strain itself is expected to be put forward by the end of 2017. From the Danish side, of course, we will contribute to the development of the strategy and work to ensure that the strategy includes initiatives to reduce plastic pollution. The government is also already working on a number of initiatives in the field of plastic waste. The implementation of Denmark's national resource strategies is well under way and already contains initiatives on plastic waste. There is as part of the national resource strategy for waste management, Denmark without waste, among other things. set up a team that goes to the municipalities of the country and holds presentations and meetings with technicians, municipal politicians and citizens and tells about the recycling of household waste, including plastic. As part of the National Resource Strategy for Waste Management, the Danish EPA has also managed the Municipality Pool, which supported municipally anchored projects, including a number of projects dealing with increased recycling of plastics. In addition, there is also the MUDP scheme, which directly supports the development of new recycling technology, including in relation to plastics. The scheme has contributed to the establishment by the joint municipal waste treatment company Nomi4s in Holstebro of a robotic sorting plant for example. I also took part in the opening of 20 March this year. At Reno-Nord in Aalborg they have also recently built a sorting plant for household plastic and metal, to which both the Municipality Pool and the MUDP scheme have contributed. The national strategy for waste prevention, Denmark without waste II.., has meant that the Danish EPA established a grant pool in 2016 which supports initiatives that focus on the design and production of plastic packaging and increase recycling, and the grant pool will also run in 2017. In relation to the relatively new amendments to the packaging directive on plastic bags, Denmark already meets the requirements, and that is why we are also very happy here. One of the initiatives in the resolution is to introduce a ban on the sale and addition of microplastics to products. This is a proposal that we also discussed in this Chamber one year ago, on 26 April 2016, in connection with Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution B 115 on microplastics. The government has not changed its position and continues to believe that the best protection for citizens in relation to microplastics is achieved through a common EU regulation. The government therefore also supports an EU-level ban on microplastics in cosmetic products. I am also pleased that the cosmetics industry in the European Union is phasing out the use of microplastics in cosmetics. The proposers propose that we establish a monitoring programme in relation to microplastics and lay down emission requirements for wastewater treatment plants and industry. However, as long as we do not know how best to measure and do not know what effects certain quantities have on the aquatic environment, it is difficult to monitor and set standards for microplastics in waste water. To address this lack of knowledge, two collaborations have been initiated on microplastics in wastewater to make us wiser and qualify decisions on how and where to most effectively put in place and how to measure microplastics in wastewater. Most recently, the Danish EPA published a report which examined the role of the purification plants in relation to the total contamination with microplastics. The report showed that for the plastic sizes that could be measured, the discharge of the largest pieces of microplastic into the aquatic environment is very limited under normal operating conditions, but on the other hand it is spread via sludge on farmland. We focus on the risk of contamination of the aquatic environment with microplastics through overflows, and together with the Municipality of the Landsforening, Dansk Industri, Dansk Miljøteknologi, supplies and companies, we have launched a partnership to identify and disseminate the most effective solutions in rain-related overflows. Furthermore, through performance benchmarking we will get figures for the overflow of individual supplies. In the field of marine plastic waste, the government already has a number of interventions. There is an EU offering coming from the Danish Environmental Protection Agency on an information campaign for marine waste. It is an effort that has been set aside for 3 million. kr. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objectives of the programme, and any The effort is expected to be directed towards users of the sea and the beaches, and as marine waste is largely made up of plastics, there is of course also a focus on this. Since 2015, as part of the marine strategy monitoring programme, Denmark has carried out studies to improve knowledge of the amount and types of waste in the marine environment, and monitoring has included the collection and assessment of waste on the seabed and on selected Danish beaches as well as studies on microplastics in sediment, fish and birds. The monitoring programme can be adjusted so that new monitoring needs can be raised. Marine waste is a major focus area and ongoing efforts are being made to develop methods for monitoring it, so that monitoring provides relevant and useful information to identify the need for further efforts. Denmark is generally well involved in national initiatives in relation to regional action plans adopted in the regional sea conventions OSPAR for the North Sea and HELCOM for the Baltic Sea. Funding is also provided for Denmark to take on a two-tier role in one of the initiatives of HELCOM's regional action plan. With the existing initiatives and initiatives, the government is in the process of establishing a necessary knowledge base to ensure that further work on the issue provides the most effective handling of plastic and plastic contamination. But that is why more can be done. I expect the proposal for a European plastic strategy to be presented at the end of 2017 and that the proposal will set a clear direction for what should be done, just as the government's advisory board on the circular economy is also expected to make recommendations in terms of increasing recycling of plastics, and that is something that comes before the summer break. I look very much forward to further work on both, and I see this resolution as a good contribution to further work on this important area, including the good proposals for a common European strategy on plastics. When the government rejects the resolution, it is not because we cannot respond positively to it. This is what we are doing in relation to the aim of the proposal. We would like to draw up a joint report which is based on the fact that plastics are a global problem which cannot be solved by Denmark alone, but requires a joint effort across national borders which stresses the need for a plastic strategy to be developed at European level, which should be the starting point for national action. When the EU's plastic strategy and recommendations from the advisory board on circular economy are available, the government will invite all parties of the Folketing to a discussion on how to realise the desire for a national plastic action plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427170908	Thank you, Minister. There are brief comments, and first it is from Maria Reumert Gjerding. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427170911	Thank you very much. And thank you, after all, for what I hear as a positive reception. I think I can confirm, on behalf of all the authors of the motion, that we would very much like to be involved in a joint report. There are some things in the Minister's speech that I just overwhelmed, but at the same time I would like to say that it is always nice to see that your proposal has already had an effect before it has been discussed in the Parliamentary Assembly. At least that is what I was thinking when a press release came in yesterday that the government had decided to do what we are proposing, namely a national action plan against plastic pollution. This means that we are probably united in the Folketing about this wish. Does the Minister not agree that a phasing-out of microplastics, for example? in cosmetics, but also in wider applications, is necessary regardless of which strategy we rely most on? And does the Minister not also agree that we have to go a lot along the path of the circular economy, which is, after all, about having closed resource circuits around plastics, and that this is really the best way to get rid of pollution?
ParlaMint-DK_20170427171016	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427171017	This subject has, of course, been of concern to me since I became a minister, and that is why, of course, we have had our backs on what we should be doing in this area, and we welcome the fact that the proposers have also taken the initiative to table a motion for a resolution, and that in this way we in the Folketing, across the parties, can carry out the task together. I cannot say whether the closed cycle or the circular economy are the most important or the only ones, and I do not hear the questioner say that either. What I am very concerned about is that we solve the problem on all the fronts we can, whether it is microplastic in our edible fish or whether it is microplastic in cosmetics or in other products. And then there is clearly a resource in the circular economic thinking, which is essential in relation to this aspect, and I also have a hope of being addressed by the government's advisory board when they make their recommendations before the summer break. So for me, the elements are open and ready to enter into a national action plan, but with the focus that we need to have an overall European strategy, as it works in far better that 550 million Europeans react than 5 million Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427171121	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427171122	Well, I was just squirming over a quote from yesterday's press release that plastic belongs in the trash bin and at a recycling station. It is not because I disagree with it, but I think the perspective should perhaps be a little further back, in relation to saying that products must be designed from the very beginning, if we are to succeed with the circular economy, so that we do not just throw it out instead of throwing it into the wild. That's true, of course, but we just need a lot more. And I hope that when the government looks at its plastic strategy, it will have that perspective instead of having a perspective where we just need to be better at sorting our waste.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427171201	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427171202	I simply believe that the Press Office of the Ministry of the Environment and Food has provided quite naturally that their minister is so forward-looking that they have written what they have, because we have already taken the initiative to ban microplastics in cosmetics and have lifted this agenda in several forums. But I can really reassure the Enhedslisten's rapporteur that we have a desire to get as far back in the process as possible. To the extent that you can limit both plastic and microplastics, it is important to do so, so that we not only achieve more recyclability, but also greater Circularity in what we are working with, and not necessarily only do it with fossil fuels as a prerequisite, i.e. what you are working with. Look in plastic.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427171242	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427171243	I'm a little happy because when SF started this fight against plastic with more recycling and also thinking more circular, we were quite alone, and now the rings are spreading in the water. Now we have a motion for a resolution in which we have received some more, and now I hear the Minister also say that the Minister has always thought so. I'm glad. I am not so surprised that when we tabled B 94 in the 2015-16 Assembly, the Minister was not as positive, but we should welcome developments. So I do. This is very positive, and I am also in favour of both a joint report and the fact that we can make a way forward. In this respect, I am curious to hear the Minister's position on the timetable. I foresee that at least it may take some time before the European Union is fully in place with its plastic action plan. Does the Minister think that we should wait for it, or that we should start drawing up a national action plan in advance, thereby also influencing what the EU's plan will ultimately look like?
ParlaMint-DK_20170427171348	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427171349	I would like to commend the SF for having been forward-looking on this one point. I think that this should be recognised to such an extent, and I would very much like to pay tribute to it. I would really like to see what comes from the advisory board here before the summer recess, and then I think it is natural that we try to knit a model together, in parallel with the Commission's work, but that we should of course wait for the final formulation of the Commission's proposal, because it is, like the important tool to be used. But it is clear that, among other things, the government. has also indicated to the Commission via the Nordic Council, where we think there are some important elements to be included in the case of microplastics.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427171433	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427171434	One of the elements that lies in some of what the Commission has put forward as their plastic strategy is that plastic production should not come directly from fossil resources, but rather directly from plants. It is, of course, a step forward in relation to today, because it will require some development of the plastic molecule. I would like to ask the Minister whether the Minister will give this priority in a national action plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427171500	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427171501	I think that's a really relevant point in making some bets. One of the things I am actually concerned with is that when we start knitting together a national action plan, we must, of course, look at what can come of recordings from industry and those responsible for plastics and what can get into the recyclability track. Now I mentioned that I myself have been out opening the Nomi4s and their sorting plants with a focus on, I think, it was 20 different plastic materials, and then of course there is a research and development trail, both in the MUDP programmes, but also in relation to the research strategy, so there is also an element that you can look at.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427171537	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427171538	Thank you. It is fantastic that there seems to be such a broad consensus on doing something in this new area at least new to the general public. Many of us have been following developments for a number of years and have become increasingly concerned about the development of plastic pollution both in the oceans of the world, but also generally with plastic everywhere in our society. When I read the Minister's press release from yesterday, I think that there is a little much waiting in this, which is why I am glad to hear that an advisory board for the circular economy is coming before the summer break and that you expect that there are other things that will fall into place during 2017. So I think the natural question is: is it something that the government expects to give priority to the 2018 Finance Act, that is to say to have a special plastic focus? It could, for example, do so. include such a thing as a targeted research and competence centre, or that you work with efforts on how to get recycling up. I would also like to hear from the Minister whether there could be room to set targets, for example. the purchase by the municipalities and for the waste management of the municipalities and for such a thing as mortgage systems.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427171652	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427171653	That's a lot of questions, sir. Christian Poll left. I am delighted that Mr. Christian Poll starts by praising. It's always nice, and I'd like to thank you for that. There are many elements that are part of both the government's resource strategy and the management board on circular economy, and these are elements that we will be taking into account in the work on the national action plan. How the government is going to give priority to finance and finance laws is too early to say anything about. What is crucial is that we have, on the one hand, a good national strategy, and, on the other hand, of course, we also have the effect of influencing those who are going to join the European Union, so that we play up to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427171732	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427171733	There is a lot of talk about some of the small sources, for example. cosmetics. And as the Minister also mentioned, the Danish Environmental Protection Agency has made a study that shows that we have some far larger sources that require research, for example. Something like car tires. So I'm thinking that there really is a need for us to put in extra money and extra focus on this area. And I just want to know if the Minister is passionate about it in that way too that pressure must be exerted in relation to the Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427171803	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427171804	I'm passionate about doing the job. I think it is terrible to see the amount of microplastics and plastics in our waters, not just in Denmark, but to a large extent in Asia and elsewhere. I myself have been with Plastic Change out sailing and trying to make the pickup. And when you see some of the results that are globally, it is horrifying, that is, when you see the extent of that problem. I really believe that basically. That is why, of course, I am concerned about drawing up a plan which also has in the long term the priorities that are necessary. This will be the result of a political debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427171838	We thank the Minister, there are no more brief comments. We start with the rapporteur's line, and first it's Mr. Knox. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427171846	Thank you. After all, we are discussing a very effective proposal today, which, even before the proposal was tabled, has had a major impact on the government and on the outside world, and that is a great thing. That is why there is also reason to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for highlighting a very topical and important problem, because there is no doubt that plastic pollution has reached a level which is quite alarming. I think most of us have seen lots of pictures of rivers and seas where it flows with plastic and where the ships sail around in it. And if you haven't studied such pictures for many years, you could at least see it in the TV 2 program Course towards distant shores, where the Beha Erichsen family sometimes sailed around and could see these plastic soups as far as the eye could see. This really is a problem that we should feel an obligation to resolve. Basically, it is a shame when plastic ends up in nature, both because it is very difficult to break down, but also because it is a valuable material that one should of course recycle. This would support the circular economy and thus we would gain both environmental and economic benefits. In line with the proposers, we believe that more knowledge is needed about the negative effects of plastic pollution on nature and the environment. This applies both to plastics, which marsh our coasts and forests, but also to microplastics that are difficult to see with the naked eye. For example, it is crucial that we find out what it means when there are microplastics in the sewage sludge that farmers pick up at waste water sites and then drive out on the Danish fields. At the same time, we believe that plastic pollution is a major problem and such a major problem that it should also be dealt with at EU level, as the Minister also mentioned, in other words, if we are to resolve this, we must also have the European Union in play. That is why we are also positive and pleased that the European Commission expects to present a comprehensive European plastic strategy during 2017, and Denmark should, of course, press for that strategy to be as ambitious as possible. It does not really matter whether we are talking about recycling in household or industry or anything else entirely. Overall, we also support the proposers' wish that a Danish action plan be evaluated on an ongoing basis. Only if we evaluate it will we know how far we're going. It is also necessary, through evaluation, for us to have continued knowledge-building that can make us more aware of the full extent of the problem and so that we can take effective action and become more and more effective in our solutions. When we make a national action plan, it must support the initiatives being taken at European and international level. It is and would be ideal if Denmark were to become a pioneer country in this area. That would be good for the environment, because we will be able to spread some of the solutions that we are capable of, but it will of course also be very good for our economy because there are green jobs to be good in this area. Social democracy believes that it is important that we get started with the discussion of an action plan. It must be concrete, and it is important that we get all parties and, of course, the government too. If we cannot support the proposal and simply press the green buttons, but believe that we should land it with a report, as several have also mentioned, it is of course because it is crucial that we discuss this together, the government will get along and that we will discuss the individual measures contained in the points made in the proposal. I am not fully convinced that it is all the measures described in the observations made in the proposal that are the most sensible, but fully support the intentions set out in the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427172248	There is a brief comment from Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427172252	I note that the Social Democracy almost sounds like the plastics industry, whose environmental policy chief here recently said: there should be no doubt that we welcome the overall intention. It is a good thing that so many people support the overall intention, but the rapporteur also says that it must be concrete. And if it is to be concrete in an action plan, it also presupposes that we get started now. And that is why I would like to hear the attitude of the Social Democrats on this matter of waiting for the European Union. Does this mean that we have to wait until there are some final legislative requirements or other on the part of the European Union before we act in Denmark, or should we in Denmark start to act now and thus also create an industry that can be the step ahead and therefore also contribute to some of the solutions that an EU strategy will call for? Where does Social Democracy stand in relation to a timetable for this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170427172347	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427172348	If I have to answer it honestly, and you have to do so from the speaking chair of the Folketing, I would say that I am actually a little in doubt as to how best to proceed. It is obvious that the government's advisory board is on the verge of something very soon, and it should be perfectly obvious that we are waiting and seeing those recommendations. I hear the Minister say they are coming before the summer break, so that is if not now, then at least within a month. So I think we should all agree that we should wait for them. And then, of course, we have to take the proposals that lie there and then, incidentally, we have to deal with when the European Union will be able to carry out a comprehensive plan. Regardless of how we land on that issue, I would like to make it clear that I think it is very important for Denmark and the government in relation to the European Union to press for this to be ambitious, so that what might come from the European Union at any given time is a place where we really and concretely address these issues.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427172441	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427172442	The Commission itself is now expecting to come up with its plastic strategy in December, and I am glad that they have been forced to draw up a plastic strategy, among other things. by SF's former parliamentarian and current European Parliamentarian Mrs Margrete Auken she has been the parliamentary rapporteur on this, and she is, of course, a persistent woman. But I would say that in this respect I do not expect us to be able to sit around and wait for things to happen. I think it is important for us to play a part, and I had actually expected a little more of the Social Democracy, not least after the Social Democracy meeting at this weekend's programme of principles said that they set sustainability at the top of the list. But I really hope that we can push on a little so that social democracy may be a little bit more progressive than the government is.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427172529	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427172530	Well, in fact, I think that with what I have said today, we fully comply with the sustainability rate that our programme of principles represents. In other words, if I am to point out three things that are important for social democracy, sustainability is one of them. So that is something we are concerned with both words and deeds, and that is also why I am saying that this problem needs to be dealt with seriously and very, very specifically. And I am absolutely convinced that we can get started working on our action plan even before the European Union comes up with anything at the end of 2017. However, it is not that long until the end of 2017, so let's see if things can't run parallel. I would very much like to contribute to the fact that we are pushing both the government and all other parties so that we find some good solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427172615	Thank you, sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen. There are no more brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Pia Adelsteen, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427172625	Thank you. In short, the proposal is to draw up an action plan on plastic pollution, create a monitoring programme, involve municipalities and civil society, NGOs and business, make an international effort in the EU, the UN and the Nordic countries and reinforce regional marine conventions. That is basically what this is all about, and if you want to shorten it even more, you can say: do something about the problem of plastic waste, regardless of size. In the Danish People's Party we are very positive about the proposal. We are not co-sponsors, simply because I personally think it is too extensive, but I am actually very, very pleased with the proposal. It is true that when you look at the problems of plastic pollution, we know that we do have some very good treatment plants that pick up 99.7%. But then we also have some sludge that is being spread out in the fields, and as I see it, we should look at a sludge regulation, because it is not just microplastics that are found in that sludge. There are also heavy metals, and there are other things that are a problem for the nature we want to preserve. I find that problematic, and I think that, when we know that the problem is also there, we should do something about it. When you look at other plastic challenges, you can see that one of the big ones is such a thing as car tires, and no matter who I've talked to, I haven't met anyone who thinks we should stop driving. I don't want that either. And I am not saying this to add insult to injury, but I am saying it because it is a real problem and something that we should at least focus on and where we need to develop on what can be done about it. We can do enough, but if 60%... Of the microplastics found in nature comes from car tires and shoe soles, it doesn't matter. Then we can pick up everything and tell people that they should not use any particular washing powder and not use the wrong dishcloths, but it really doesn't matter when we're still driving by car. So something has to be done. I think it is very important that we involve companies, NGOs and civil society. And when I say that, I may also occasionally raise the index finger a little, because it is paradoxical that we have a lot of people who think we should have a good, clean nature, but who are eminent in throwing something into it. It's not necessarily the same people I'm not saying that, but it's weird that we have so-called McDonald routes. It can then be said that it may not be just plastic waste, but it is waste. There are also some who say that we have slots for these cans. At least we have some routes where people have an excellent ability to dump waste and where, once a year, there are associations and people who voluntarily run around and pick up a lot more than what else is being picked up. There I would like to raise the index finger and say that it is something strange that you want to have a clean environment on the one hand, but on the other hand you think it is a little difficult just to get near a trash can. It's really just to put it a little simplistic. I have moved to Mariager myself, and in Mariager Municipality we have a company that makes plastic recycling. That may also be why I have gradually gained a further knowledge of it, for I have visited the company Aage Vestergaard Larsen A/S up to several times, and I will come to it again. It's actually a company that misses getting more plastic. They get a lot of what's done. In the City of Mariager it has been said that all plastic waste is collected somewhere, and then it is actually driven up to the company, where it is made into granules, and then it can be recycled. That's what the circular economy is all about. That's exactly it. I have also visited another company called ecoXpac, located in Slangerup. They are doing something quite different, but they are working on a project where there are some young active people trying to figure it out: if you know something about power conditions in ports, you also know that when some plastic is thrown into the water, it collects itself in certain places. And if you do some specific projects, you can also pick up the plastic, and then you can return it to Aage Vestergaard Larsen, who wants it so badly and who can use it again. That's exactly what this is about. This is a small example of what you can do when there is a product that is waste and that you don't just want to throw out, but that can be recycled. What is also paradoxical is that district heating plants also want it very much, because there is also oil in plastics. It can be used for heat. I would like to say that this is a very positive proposal. I think we should make a national action plan. We would like to support this in the Danish People's Party. We do not support the proposal because, as I said, it is too comprehensive, but we certainly support the fact that we are making a report and that we are doing something about it here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427173147	There is a brief comment from Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427173150	Thank you very much to the Danish People's Party for the support for the intentions and ideas behind the proposal, in relation to the fact that we have to do something about this plastic. There are two elements to which I would just like to draw attention in the rapporteur's speech. One is about car tires. It is the case with car tyres that they are currently recycled and used for asphalt on our roads, so you can actually do a lot with car tyres without necessarily having to end up in our nature. However, one might also imagine that car tyres can be composed in a different way in the future, and Denmark is in fact one of the countries that is innovative in this area in terms of creating innovation. The second point I would like to make concerns sewage treatment plants. We do not know the efficiency of the cleaning plants quite in relation to microplastics. We need more research into it, because there are indications that they can take the large quantities of plastic, that is, that which contains large amounts of microplastics, but the very microscopic microplastics are not caught by the treatment plants. We already see this with air pollution, where we have the challenge, and the same can be true with regard to sewage treatment plants. So there is something that suggests that we need more knowledge, and that is also part of what is in the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427173258	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427173300	To that extent, I do not disagree at all. It is true that car tyres are a challenge and a great many of the car tires are also recycled, there is no doubt about that. Where the problem is and arises is in connection with the wearing of car tyres, where it releases some plastic, which then, if it is not collected in our sewers or elsewhere, is in nature. That's the way it is. As far as sewage treatment plants are concerned, I think we both know that there are a lot of experiments going on in relation to collecting as much as possible, and it is also some research, some development that needs to be undertaken again. We can of course make tons of action plans in here, but what I think is important and it should be my call in relation to such a case here is to appeal to the ordinary Dane by saying that you can actually help very much yourself. There are kindergartens that gather the small round capsules from milk cartons and send to Aage Vestergaard Larsen. I know it's not a big deal, but sometimes that's how we start things in Denmark and that we've actually been good at.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427173405	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427173407	If we are going to go in the right direction with regard to plastics, we must start thinking about real circular economy, and that has something to do with not being included in the product, or getting the product developed, so that at least it is not from fossil fuels that the plastic enzyme is being extracted. However, as I said, I would just like to thank the Danish People's Party for its positive attitude to the proposal. I hope, as I said, that we can reach a joint report perhaps in September, so we have time to ask questions over the summer and perhaps get on this subject well. I think that will be useful, and I believe that the Danes will appreciate it too.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427173441	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427173443	And I totally agree. I think it would be good if nothing else were to be done to have a national action plan, so that we do something here. As I mentioned at the outset, perhaps I think the proposal is very comprehensive. It is not because I do not understand it, because there are many problems about plastic waste, but I think you should start from home and then work your way out. That would be a good thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427173504	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427173506	Thank you. I am pleased that the rapporteur mentions car tyres, because this is one of the problems that we have discovered to be more relevant to this problem of microplastic waste than we thought from the outset. It shows precisely that there is a need to become wiser, and I also hear the rapporteur say that we really need to become wiser. That is why I would just like to welcome the fact that the rapporteur is interested in the area and to hear whether it could be something that could be so important that pressure will be put on to get a little extra funding on the Finance Act for example. to learn more about the problem of car tyres and perhaps create a specific centre of competence for plastic waste, given that the problem is as severe as it seems to be.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427173552	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427173554	It is very rare for me to go in on financial matters and say that I will do something. When I say it like that, it's because it's rare that I get anything out of it. That's it. Yes, we certainly need to become wiser. I do not know how to learn more, but I think that what we need most here is actually picking up the plastic. It's actually pretty simple: Danes, don't throw plastic waste or plastic bags around; don't. We can use it, and we'd like to use it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427173627	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427173629	Perhaps I do not agree with that. As far as the waste we can see is concerned, studies have shown that some countries in Asia, in particular, are creating major problems for the marine environment. The Danish problems may be particularly concerned with the plastic we cannot see, for example. plastic from tyre wear, and that is what we need to become very much smarter and find solutions to. Then, of course, we can help clean up out there. However, I hear that the rapporteur is positive and thinks it is an important debate, and I welcome that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427173702	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427173704	I do not disagree with that at all. It is also true that the largest quantity of waste is, of course, elsewhere. But I think it's hard to go in and tell people what to do in India or anywhere else. We can make quite so many conventions and quite so many agreements, but right down to the practical level I personally find it very difficult to go out and dictate what an Indian should do or what a Chinese should do or who it might be. So I think you should start with yourself, and then you can spread it out quietly.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427173734	Mrs Ida Auken made a brief comment at the last minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427173740	It was just a question for Mrs Pia Adelsteen. The Danish People's Party tends to be very concerned about knowledge and that we know what we are doing before we go out and set everything in motion, so does the Danish People's Party, like the rest of us, think that in such an action plan there should be a monitoring programme where you actually get an idea of what it looks like in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20170427173758	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427173800	At first glance, I have no problem with that. I think it is true that we should not just go a little to the right and a little to the left. It is important to know what you are doing, so I have no problem with that. Where I might bring a little but I don't know what that costs. I do not see that at first sight. That is always my concern, because I know that we have to find the money somewhere and, as I say, I do not have a back pocket with anything in it, and I do not know if we can find the money anywhere. But I am in favour of a monitoring programme.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427173828	Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427173830	Thank you. The good thing about such a debate here is that you can make some declarations of intent. Now the government has said that we should, like, wait for the European Union. This is not usually the primary argument of the Danish People's Party for something, so the second question I would like to ask is: do we agree that we ourselves can get started here in Denmark even before there is a European plan in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20170427173850	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427173852	Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, I do care about the European Union, but I think we can easily start at home and make a national action plan, as I said in my speech. In fact, I think that is important. If the European Union is then lagging behind, then they must come limping behind, and then it may be that they can learn from our good action plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427173909	Then we say thank you to Mrs Pia Adelsteen and move on to Mr. Erling Bonnesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427173918	Thank you. Plastic pollution is indeed a serious problem, not only for us here in Denmark, but indeed in many parts of the world. I would like to start by stating that we in the Left are taking these challenges with plastic pollution very seriously, just as I can hear that everyone, I think, is doing. We also recognise that this is an issue that needs to be addressed. And we also note that our government is addressing the issue and doing so with a number of initiatives; for example, Denmark's national resource strategy is being implemented, which also includes initiatives on plastic waste. There is also money available to finance information efforts, for example. on marint garbage. In addition, the government has also focused on how we can better support a circular economy, and in the Left we also believe that circular economy and increased recycling are part of the way forward and a significant part of the way forward. Then an advisory board has been set up to come up with proposals on how to move away from this one, you can say, use and throw away culture and more towards a circular economy. There are both economic and environmental gains; plastics are a valuable material that we need to be better at recycling. But not only on the national level are we trying to deal with the problem of plastic pollution, as indeed is the international issue. And in relation to the international struggle, it is also important to say that Denmark cannot and must not solve all the challenges alone, but, of course, try to get things to play with the initiatives that we take ourselves.That is of course why the government has given priority to getting experience from international action. Together with the other Nordic ministers, we have sent letters to the European Union expressing support for the implementation of the forthcoming circular economy package, and we have also expressed our ambitions in relation to the EU's future plastic strategy. In the Left, we agree with the intention behind the motion for a resolution we are debating here to work towards effective Danish action against plastic pollution. And in the Left, we welcome the fact that it has been proposed that, for example, we should: We must now try to discuss the possibilities of a joint report in order to find the way forward. I do not think that all of this lies directly in the resolution before us and that one hundred per cent of it should be based on it, but we can only, as has already been said in the debate, very much welcome the fact that it will be put on the agenda. And this is obviously also a subject on which, I think, we can work much more together in the future. It is also our wish that we can reach a national plastic action plan, and I also heard with pleasure and satisfaction that the Minister said that we will just hear what the advisory board can play out on, and thus we can also look forward to us in the Folketing continuing to work together on this important issue. So that is what I think is usually called a friendly rejection of the resolution before us, but we certainly agree with many of the intentions that lie in it. So we are also looking forward to the work of trying to puzzle with a report which, in any case, is the framework for us to have a common basis for moving forward on this matter. Then I should like to welcome Carsten Bach, the Liberal Alliance, who has been acutely prevented from being in the Chamber right now and say that they are also in line with this, one might say, friendly rejection of the resolution as it stands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427174331	There is a brief comment from Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427174335	I would like to ask the Left Party because the Minister represents the whole government, and therefore I would like to ask the Left Party whether the Liberal Party believes that funding should be provided under the 2018 Finance Act, so that we can actually deliver on the EU's plastic strategy and on a possible Danish action plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427174356	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427174358	I am sure it will not surprise the questioner that I am replying somewhat in the same way as my good minister, namely that we are not in the middle of the financial law negotiations now, but I also see the importance of this, and I believe that that is what is at stake among others. SF, who is co-author of this, that you have a little look at the intentions to get to grips with some of these issues. This is not a financial law debate, so we should not give priority to this at this stage. We must then say that it may be that SF is invited to some financial law negotiations, and then you can have some economic issues with yourself.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427174432	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427174434	It was a little more dismissive than the Minister, because the rapporteur knows just as I do that the SF will probably not be a financial partner for the government. We come to every negotiation we're invited to. But that means that the rapporteur says that we were not in the government's own proposal for a Finance Act, because the rapporteur knows as well as I do that the government's proposal for a Finance Act is now being completed, and what the rapporteur then says is that it should be negotiated into the financial law proposal made by the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427174503	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427174505	Since the questioner himself has been a minister, the questioner knows very well that the Minister for Finance is usually required to present the negotiating table at the end of August, and after all there is still some time left. So I do not have to anticipate one thing or the other, but it is clear that the preparatory work is under way. I shall not comment at this stage in any way on what is expected to be part of the government's proposal for financial law negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427174529	Thank you, sir. Erling Bonnesen. There are no more brief comments, and we move on to Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427174542	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking the SF for taking the initiative on this very thorough resolution and very important resolution. Indeed, the global level of plastic pollution has reached an alarming level, it has to be said. Our ocean is massively contaminated with plastic. It's killing the animal life really hard. They are the big animals, they are turtles, they are whales, they are fish, and they are birds that eat the plastic, which they can die from. So at many levels the plastic threatens the sea's rich wildlife. The plastic also has the very problematic property, when it ends up in nature, that it can stay in nature for many hundred years. What happens when the plastic is gradually broken down, which is usually associated with something good, is that it is found in increasingly smaller and smaller pieces. It turns into microplastics that can accumulate in the food chain. There's, uh... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... As with so many other pollution problems, although we take other species into the fall, it always ends up hitting ourselves in the end, and this also applies to the extensive contamination of plastics. So this is, I would like to stress, a huge environmental disaster that we are discussing here today. It is also an environmental problem which, for too long, has been living in the shadow of other important agendas, but which, fortunately, in recent years has moved further and further on the political agenda. As I also allowed myself to mention to the Minister, it is a good thing when political proposals appear to have worked before they have even been dealt with in this Chamber. It was because yesterday the Minister announced that the government has decided to do very precisely what the proposal is about, namely a national action plan for plastics policy. It will be exciting to see what it should contain, because so far the government has also announced that it will now wait. One will become wiser before one can fully determine what the strategy and what the policy should contain. That is why I am very pleased that, together with the SF, the Radical Left and the alternative in the motion for a resolution here, we are setting out a number of very concrete things that can be done here and now, and of course we also hope that the government will be inspired by them. An obvious place to start is to impose requirements on treatment plants, to impose requirements on how much waste water can be discharged from microplastics. It can also stimulate very important technological developments, which we know will be in demand worldwide. So it's a very obvious place to start. Then there is the demand for recycling, to ensure that plastic remains in a closed resource cycle, that it does not end up in nature, but on the contrary continues to be recycled. After all, it is a valuable resource, and it is a resource that is currently based on fossil fuels, which says something about how valuable it is and how important it is that you take good care of it and absolutely do not burn it off, as is unfortunately happening to far too much today. Then, of course, we have to phase out the use of microplastics in cosmetic products, which is quite obvious, but also in all other applications. Then we need to develop new types of plastic, because I really think it is quite obvious that plastic is a material that today in society is too widespread. We still need plastic. We still need plastic for a wide range of applications, but it has to be a type of plastic that can be composted and that can return precisely when we talk about circular economy, in the biological cycle, to the ground and to nature without doing any harm whatsoever. Then there is the last perspective that I also think we should remember, and it is all the plastic that already exists in nature. Here I think we have a responsibility to help also some international cooperation in order to ensure that an environmental disaster is cleared up, which for too many years has received too little attention. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427175020	Thank you to Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427175041	Thank you. I would also like to begin by thanking the SF for its good initiative. For us in the Alternative, it is central to work on as many lines as possible that lead to a circular economy so that we can leave our use and throw away society. As far as plastics are concerned, we have heard in particular from the Enhedslisten's rapporteur many of the technical details on plastics, so I will not repeat them. But I would like to point out that one of the basic problems with our use of plastics in society today is that it is simply too good a material. It's too good. I found an example from my bag. I have used examples before for consultation on a deodorant, and here I have a spectacle case. This is an example of the fact that we are simply using a plastic material that can hold for 10 to 20 years on something that really only needs to last for a month or two while the product is in use or even as packaging while it is in the store. And there we simply have to set up our society differently, so that packaging in particular is much more precisely designed to just stick to what it has to endure, for example. one month in a store or a year in such a consumer product. I am proud to be a co-author of this proposal because I think it is coming around well and I am very pleased that so far all parties have been positive about the proposal and say: let us find out something, let us have an action plan. The government has also reported it out. For us, it is important that it becomes ambitious, because Denmark has a tradition of taking the lead and doing it very well when we take the lead, also for the benefit of Danish business. We can do so much when we make action plans where there are funds behind where the world of research comes to the fore and where we can develop new methods that can solve some of the problems we face. That is why we have also highlighted in our proposal that we believe that we should involve municipalities, we should involve civil society. That is, for example, the case. environmental organisations, which are, after all, some of the strongest in this area. The Minister himself mentioned Plastic Change, the new NGO that is working specifically with this area, and Denmark's and other major NGOs are all extremely active in the area of plastics, because it is simply such a global problem and also a problem in Denmark. So I hope that we can find a common text for which we can find a majority in committee so that we can create a good framework for a joint action plan for the whole of the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427175351	Thank you, sir. Christian Poll, there are no brief remarks. So we move on to Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427175357	Thank you very much. Thank you for the positive reception of our proposal, and thank you to our partners, not least the SF, who have taken the lead in bringing this proposal down to the Assembly Hall. It is always good that we can work together in this way in the opposition. When we talk about plastic in the oceans, it's not a small problem we're talking about. And that's not some hippie-Ester bridge thing, or whatever else you might say about environmental policy. This is a huge problem for all of us, for the world economy, for our children. In the year 2050, if we do nothing, there will be more plastic than fish in the oceans, and I think that's just a completely crazy scenario... that we've come to where there will be more plastic than fish in the oceans if we don't start changing these things. That is one side: it is a huge pollution problem. The other side is that it is a lost resource. Every time we lose plastic out of the systems, we actually lose a resource that could have been used to make new products that could have been used in a much smarter way, and that in itself is a big mistake. So we think it is very good that with this proposal we have been able to smoke the government out of government offices and make them promise that they will make a national action plan against plastic pollution. We also believe radically that it is good that it will be linked to the work that is being done in the advisory board for circular economy. What I'm hearing from the water pipes is that it's a very ambitious work being done in this advisory board, and I hope the government will take very good note of many of the recommendations. When you have worked with circular economy for a number of years, you can see that it is really about changing systems. Well, it's not about solving a little problem out here at the end. It's about rethinking the whole way we do things. Circular economy is about redesigning both the way we consume and the way we produce, so that the plastic continues to have a value. Because when plastic has a value, it doesn't get lost out of the systems. Then it doesn't end up as garbage, it doesn't end up in the wrong places and eventually at sea. So we're actually gonna have to go all the way back and think again about the way we design plastic. Some of the things I hope can get out of work, not least in the EU, where there is volume to start looking at some standards, is that we can start saying that we are running plastic in some different categories, which are easily labelled so that they are easier to separate afterwards. We can start to have some material passports for large products, so you can see that here there is some plastic with a certain content that can be recycled. It could be in a building, it could be in other places where there is plastic in large quantities, which one could ensure preserved its value. I also find it exciting that civil society is so much on this agenda. One really should honor a group like Plastic Change, which has lifted this in record time from being something that was talked about in some smaller circles to being a major social agenda. Our green organisations have come up with very constructive proposals in this area as to whether, in cooperation with, for example, The retail trade can do something to stop the plastic loss and ensure a higher recycling rate of the plastic we have. I have always dreamed that a small demonstration plant or a project could be created here in Copenhagen, where, at the same time as having a large sorting plant, perhaps with best available technology plus the next 5-10 years of possibilities thought up from the start, you could get sorted plastic in perhaps five or seven or eight categories. And I imagine that at some point we can also get the black plastic out, so we're ready for it too, and that you got a plant that could collect plastic for a lot of municipalities and get it sorted out into 5-8 fractions, so it has a high value. Then we could go back and talk to our retail shop and say: Couldn't it be interesting that you already started thinking about how you could make packaging that fits into this new waste sorting system? And then, in fact, we could become a pilot area to show how some of these things can work in practice, and in this way we could also play a part in European work to get a completely different focus on plastic. I think the development potential is very large. I also hear positive notes from the plastics industry in Denmark. Look what we've done in the field of energy. When we first started talking about climate problems etc. In fact, in Denmark we got an energy sector that went along with and wanted to solve the problems. That is one of the reasons why we are now leading the new energy technologies. Let us see circular economy and not least plastic as such an opportunity for Denmark. There is a major pollution problem and there is a lost resource, but we can actually turn to a position of strength if we, together with the industry, find the wise way to recycle as much plastic as possible, have designed processes and circuits, also less closed circuits. We do not need to get all parts into a European system to recycle plastic. So we very much hope that we can get a report out of this which is as ambitious as possible. We hope that those who are going to negotiate finance law will help to find some money, both to get a monitoring programme so that we can get an idea of the problem, but also to actually get demonstration projects that show that this can be resolved.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427175911	Thank you to Mrs Ida Auken. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Mette Abildgaard, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427175927	Thank you. And thank you to the SF and to the other parties who have tabled this motion for a resolution. I think it has to be said that this is a well-worked and very detailed resolution which very specifically formulates a number of objectives and ambitions in this area. So thank you very much to the proposers for having done the work. There have been several of the opposition's rapporteurs who have been a little out for the government and so suggested that a new position should have been taken in relation to this with a plastic action plan. To that I just want to say that there has been no choice in Denmark, but that after all there has been a new government, and this is the first time that the government has dealt with this issue. I just have to say on behalf of the Conservative People's Party that I am speaking as rapporteur today that it is not a new view that a plastic action plan is sensible. So, of course, I am very pleased that this is also the position we have chosen jointly in the government. This subject is an issue that is very much of a concern to people. Today I received an email from a worried woman. She didn't realize that we were going to discuss it here in Parliament today, and actually started her e-mail by just asking me if I wouldn't read this e-mail right to the end, because it was really something she cared about and recorded her a lot. And it was exactly about the plastic plastic in the sea and the big problem it poses. It wasn't long ago I overheard a conversation between two women at the supermarket who were talking about what this microplastic stuff in the tubs was all about. I actually think it says a lot that it's become very modern again to buy these old-fashioned cotton cloths that you can feel sure doesn't contain a lot of microplastics. I can also reveal that they were on my own wish list when I got married last year. Not that it's the most exciting thing to want for a wedding present, but after all, it triggered a few cotton cloths. It is clear that there are many Danes who quite simply care about this, and I certainly share that concern politically too. Every minute, the contents of the equivalent of a whole garbage truck are emptied into the sea every minute of every day. It's 8 tons of plastic in the ocean every minute. I love to dive myself and have delved in many places in the world, and already today it makes me so immensely sad when I dive in some of the world's most beautiful oceans and swim into plastic bags and other things that lie and mess. We have a strong European focus on this, and it is also where we, as a nation, must put our efforts very much. It is true that there are challenges in Denmark, as Mr. Christian Poll also mentioned in his speech. It's a lot about the plastic we can't see. Of course, we must also do something about the obvious plastic that we can see, waste lying in the streets and alleys, etc. But there's a lot of microplastics and what we can't see with the naked eye. But when you talk about the world and the oceans, yes, the problem is very easy to see with the naked eye, because it's about these big plastic islands that are being collected. A European strategy must be drawn up in this area during 2017, and I await this with great excitement. I hope that this ban on microplastics in cosmetics can become part of the European agreement reached, just as I hope that an EU ban on depositing plastics into open landfills, which is a very, very important element of this issue, can be reached. In addition, as the Minister also mentioned, we have close Nordic cooperation on this subject, where we share many opinions with the other Nordic countries and fight with them. Once the EU is in place and this advisory board has made its recommendations, we also need an action plan for plastic in Denmark. I think there are many exciting messages in what is on the table. One of the things that will also be important to me when we discuss this here in Denmark is how we get rid of the boring statistics that say that among 30 European countries, Denmark is the country that is worst placed when it comes to the recycling of household waste. One of the reasons for this is that the municipalities have very different rules in relation to it. I am also often approached by citizens who are extremely confused about how to sort their waste because the municipalities have such different guidelines. I also get mail from citizens who are confused about what it really is, hard plastic is and what it really is, soft plastic is. In some municipalities you can deliver your black plastic, and there it can be recycled. In other municipalities it does not make much use of it because it cannot be recycled. There are very large differences between municipalities. So this is also a subject that I think we need to talk very seriously about so that we can get rid of this plastic waste. I would just like to finish by saying that I also hope we can have a good report on this, and I would like to thank the proposers once again for the initiative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427180446	There was just a request for a brief comment from Mr. Christian Poll. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427180450	I just thought the latter was super exciting, i.e. the municipalities have so different rules on how to sort or not sort their waste. There is, of course, an overall framework directive for waste which says that what you can do must be re-used, but that it also depends on the price and the technical possibilities. So I just wanted to know if it is true that we can continue to talk about how the municipalities can deal with waste more uniformly, so that a citizen in Vordingborg ultimately has to do the same with his waste as a citizen in Skive, and that it can make sense. In this context, there is also the whole big discussion about how much we should burn our waste and whether we should get away from what we are doing a lot in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427180540	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427180541	In general, I have very great respect for local self-government, but it has to be said that local self-government presents considerable challenges in this area. As it is today, companies can sell their waste to private individuals, and there we see that you are actually better at recycling plastics because it is easier for private companies to go in and buy on the basis of the company scheme that exists. It is more difficult with the system of municipalities as it is today. So to some extent we simply have to discuss how to ensure more optimal waste management by the municipalities. I do not have the final solution. I would be quite honest with you, and there must also be respect for municipal differences. But the Danes are extremely confused in this area, and we have to take them in hand if we want to ensure a better result in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427180630	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427180631	I am glad to hear and very much agree with that. So I would also like to ask the rapporteur, as I have asked some of the others: is this plastic agenda so important that the rapporteur for the Conservatives wants to give it some weight in the financial legislation negotiations this autumn?
ParlaMint-DK_20170427180647	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427180648	I find it difficult at this stage to assess what this will cost in dollars and ears, but I would say that the Conservative People's Party is very concerned about this and that we are very open to bringing it into the budget negotiations. I have a small list on which I note good ideas, and it's definitely on the list, this. I can tell you that. But, of course, when we get there, we will take those negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427180706	We thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427180714	Thank you. Thank you to all the rapporteurs. I think it has been a very good debate, and it is always the case that a broad Parliament supports one's proposals. This has been a matter for the SF for a long time. However, I am pleased that we have now tabled the proposal together with the Radical Left, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative, and I think that we have together made some rings in the water, when we can now both experience NGOs, but, as such, the plastics industry also speak positively about the proposals that are being put forward in the Folketing. Then there's a lot going on. I would also like to thank the rapporteurs for the other parties. However, a special thanks to the Minister for the commitment to a Danish action plan. I have taken note of the fact that when the Green minority makes a motion for a resolution in the Parliamentary Assembly individually or collectively, the Minister has created a new tradition: to issue a press release approx. 24 hours before the proposal is dealt with in the Parliamentary Chamber. It is a ministerial statement which tries to spin over the content of the proposal, so it seems that the government has long since overtaken the proposal. That is fair enough, because I really think that the most important thing for me and for the SF and for the proposers is that we can push the debate, and if that means that we can actually end up with something sensible, then it is at least a step along the way. Another tradition, unfortunately, is that the green proposals from the minority, the opposition, are rarely voted through with the votes of the government. The latter is to live with if the government's commitment to action is credible and leads to real change. I sincerely hope so, and so I would like to thank the Minister and the government parties for their commitment to negotiating a Danish action plan against plastic pollution; or a plastic policy, which should be properly called when considering the scale and complexity of the problem. However, if it is not just to be spin on the part of the Minister, and I hope that this is not the case, then it is crucial that the government and the parties supporting an action plan ensure that new funds are provided to implement the action plan. That is absolutely crucial. It is therefore very positive that Mrs Abildgaard, the rapporteur of the Conservatives, gives an undertaking that it is on the rapporteur's little blacklist of proposals for the financial legislation negotiations. It is a step in the right direction. The second, which is crucial, is of course also that Denmark should play an active part in the preparation of the Community initiatives, rather than simply waiting for a Commission initiative to be taken. I therefore hope that the parties will be prepared to jointly write a report because that is what I hear at the end of the debate on the motion for a resolution, setting out the framework for what Denmark should do with good proposals for the European Union, and at the same time setting out some guidelines for the content of a Danish action plan. In this way, the parties can negotiate a real action plan at the beginning of 2018, perhaps with a framework grant on the 2018 Finance Act. This point is quite important. My daughter often tells me: I don't want to eat fish, Mom, because there's plastic in the stomach of the fish. We should not have a new generation that grows up and believes that fish are equal to plastic, and therefore it is also thought-provoking, as both Mrs Ida Auken says, but actually the plastics industry also writes in the speech at Altingen, namely that in 2050 with current developments there is more plastic than water in the oceans of the world, and we need to take that seriously. The UN's own 2016 report on plastic pollution also says that it is a common concern for mankind it is serious, we have to act on it. It is both at Danish level, it is at EU level, and it is at municipal level. I am pleased that in his speech the Minister also says that it is about getting the industry involved, it is about the recycling trail, it is about research and innovation. That is why I would also like to draw attention to the fact that, while the SF was in government and had a minister who happens to be in the Chamber of another party today, we carried out a resource strategy which doubled recycling but also had a special focus on plastics, and that is really what needs to be expanded. I think there are a lot of good opportunities in this. It's actually a whole new industrial adventure that's coming if we think this wisely. We can compare the plastic area to the freon area. Here the first trends started to discuss the use of freon after all in Denmark, and it lifted itself up to a UN decision in Montreal on a ban on freon, which meant that Danish refrigerator giants such as Gram and West Frost started delivering refrigerators to the whole world because they were the first to deliver refrigerators without freon. If we imagine the same thing, namely that we are slowly getting legislation in the area of plastics, then there will be industries that are beginning to develop similar products. And it's not a future scenario, it's already happening. A small Danish packaging company, ecoXpac, is one of those who will deliver packaging to Carlsberg in the future; instead of these plastic containers for various beverages we will now see ecoXpac's recyclable packaging being the substance of it. And that's the way we're going. Small steps, but in the right direction. I think my daughter expects her daughter to be able to eat fish one day, even though my own daughter may not eat fish along the way. But thank you very much for the debate and thank you very much for the commitment to a joint report. We proposers from the Alternative, Radical Left, Enhedslisten and SF look forward to further work.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427181249	Thank you to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the resolution be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170427181313	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 28 April 2017, at 12.00 p.m. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
