ParlaMint-DK_20170207130013	The meeting is open. From the Prime Minister, I have received the following letter: According to the Prime Minister's recommendation, the Royal Resolution of 31 January 2017 provides that the management of the business of the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of the Elderly, which is the responsibility of the Minister of Health, will be entrusted from 20 February 2017 onwards and so far to the Minister of Equality and the Minister of Nordic Cooperation. The message will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk (cf. (see below). According to my recommendation, the Royal Resolution of 31 January 2017 provides that February 2017 and so far must be entrusted to the Minister for Gender Equality and the Minister for Nordic Cooperation. I would ask the President to inform the Folketing accordingly. Sign. Lars Løkke Rasmussen/ Today there are the following reviews: Peter Kofod Poulsen (DF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 65 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the publication of collected surveillance images). Jacob Mark (SF) and Kirsten Normann Andersen (SF): Motion for a resolution No. B 66 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a special effort to increase the participation of young people in local elections in 2017). Karsten Hønge (SF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 67 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on better conditions for children in the entertainment sector). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20170207130148	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 33 by Flemming Møller Mortensen (S), Liselott Blixt (DF), Jane Heitmann (V), May-May-Britten Kattrup (LA), Lotte Rod (RV) and Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel (KF), and voting is possible. The vote is over. In favour of voting 90 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), against 15 (EL and ALT), abstentions 4 (SF). Proposal for adoption No V 33 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 32 of Peder Hvelplund (EL) and Pernille Schnoor (ALT) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207130302	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 34 by Liselott Blixt (DF), Flemming Møller Mortensen (S), Jane Heitmann (V), May-May-Britten Kattrup (LA), Lotte Rod (RV) and Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel (KF), and voting is possible. The vote is over. In favour of voting 90 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), against 19 (EL, ALT and SF), [no votes for or against 0]. Proposal for adoption No V 34 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 35 of Peder Hvelplund (EL) and Pernille Schnoor (ALT) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207130409	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 36 af Liselott Blixt (DF), Yildiz Akdogan (S), Jane Heitmann (V), May-May-Britten Kattrup (LA), Lotte Rod (RV) and Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel (KF). The vote is over. In favour of voting 90 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), against 19 (EL, ALT and SF), [no votes for or against 0]. Proposal for adoption No V-36 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 37 of Peder Hvelplund (EL) and Pernille Schnoor (ALT) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207130520	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207130543	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (ALT). The vote is over. In favour of 15 (EL and ALT), against 89 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 4 (SF). The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. Two and three, tabled and joined by the same minorities, lapsed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 4 is a minority (EL), joined by a minority (ALT). The vote is over. In favour of 15 (EL and ALT), against 88 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 4 (SF). The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 5, tabled and joined by the same minorities, lapsed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207130712	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207130741	The debate is open. I'm just gonna wait a minute for some quiet. You have to have respect for the Minister, who first has to be on the platform. It's time to be quiet. This also applies when the rapporteurs are going to do so. Here you go to the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207130816	The proposers of B 38 want to require the government to ensure that no minor asylum seeker is accommodated with any spouse or partner. Let me begin by making my basic position, which I do not think is surprising to anyone, absolutely clear. I think it is quite unacceptable for a person to be forced or forced into a marriage or relationship. Of course, this also applies to asylum seekers under 18 years of age. I believe that we have a duty to protect the young people that are typically girls and their free choice and right to self-determination. That is why I also support the idea behind the motion for a resolution. As I said, I do not think anyone is in any doubt about it. It is precisely these considerations that lead me to take the initiative to address the problem immediately after I became aware of the specific cases raised. As you know, the scheme means that underage asylum seekers cannot, as a rule, be accommodated with a spouse or a partner in the asylum centres. As I have informed the Danish Parliament on a number of occasions, a derogation from the principle of separate accommodation for minors and their older spouses or couples must be made in special cases, provided, of course, that none of the parties is under 15 years of age. In these cases, exceptions are never made. This derogation is due to the fact that the scheme is to be administered in accordance with Denmark's international obligations, including Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights concerning the right to respect, inter alia, for: family life and the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child. There must therefore be an exception in order to take account of any particular cases. There must, for example, be one. an exception shall be made in the case of a couple of 17 and 19 years respectively in cases where there is no compulsion. Similarly, an exception must be made if the Danish authorities have granted the couple an exemption to marry in Denmark. So that's what we call king's letter. Having said that, I would like to stress that the system has meant that the separation of under-age spouses or cohabitants in asylum centres is to a large extent ensured and at least for a period of time on arrival in this country, thereby ensuring a breathing space for young people. For example, couples with a large age difference will: as the clear starting point could not be accommodated together. As is well known, yesterday the Ombudsman of the Danish Parliament published a draft statement on this matter. The Ombudsman assesses, in his instructions of 10 February last year:... in its content was unlawful and at the same time led to a significant risk of incorrect decisions being taken in specific cases relating to separate accommodation. In summary, therefore, the Ombudsman considers the procedure in the case to be highly questionable. It is clear that I take note of the Ombudsman's criticism. At the same time, I also note that the Ombudsman is basing himself that it was not the Ministry's overall intention to impose an illegal practice on the Aliens' Board. This brings me to my conclusion regarding the government's position on the motion for a resolution. As I have said, the motion for a resolution calls on the government to establish a legal situation whereby no minor asylum seeker is accommodated with any spouse or partner. It is the assessment that it would be clearly contrary to Denmark's international obligations to establish such a legal state where there is no cat door, and it is therefore the government's view that Denmark must comply with its obligations. We have already said that we will. We cannot therefore support the proposal as it stands here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207131256	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Pernille Bendixen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207131303	Thank you very much. First of all, thank you to the Minister for that fine speech. Convention normally has a paragraph or paragraph of the Convention which states that if it conflicts with public order, that is to say against Danish morality and, what can be said, Danish law and order in general, then one has the right to refrain from fulfilling the Convention. Can we not say in this case that if you cannot get married unless you are 18 years old, it comes under the concept of public order and thus runs counter to Danish morality?
ParlaMint-DK_20170207131346	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207131348	It is the assessment that you cannot. But now I understand that a report will also be written afterwards when we have discussed the motion for a resolution here, and that is one of the things that can be raised in this context. But it is the assessment that it is not possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207131406	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207131408	Is there any possibility that you can write in that we in Denmark consider that this is contrary to public order? I guess we can define this even as Danish legislators.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207131419	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207131421	So, immediately, the assessment is that we have gone to the edge, and indeed even a toe-toe above the edge, at least according to the Ombudsman's assessment. So my answer will be no. But it is a question which the Danish People's Party is of course very welcome to raise, and then you will also get a legal answer to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207131441	Then it's mr. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207131445	Thank you. It is the case that we are so well placed here in the Folketing that we can do the law, and that is an advantage as a legislator. So if we adopt the motion for a resolution of the Danish People's Party, there must be legislation which, as it were, translates the motion for a resolution into legislation. Then it will be beyond doubt whether it is legal or illegal. You could also find other ways to handle it. I would therefore like to ask why the government cannot support the resolution if it is in fact the view of the government that it should not be possible for child brides to live with their spouse if the person over 18 years of age.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207131522	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207131523	As I concluded by saying, we have always said on the part of the government that we will live up to the international conventions that we ourselves have signed up to, at least until the international conventions, if possible, will be amended. And since this is one of the things we have said yes to in the past, we naturally feel obliged to work within that framework.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207131544	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207131546	After all, the European Convention on Human Rights states that there is a right to family life, and that must then be respected, that is to say it must be respected by the nation states. But it also says that it can be waived if it is for the sake of morale, as Mrs Pernille Bendixen said, or if it is in accordance with the law of the country. So there are, of course, two references in Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which is actually a feline, in that we ourselves can adopt rules at national level which make it impossible to live together in an asylum centre if one is a child's break and the other is over 18 years old. Will the government take advantage of that cat door? Because it is there, too, in the Convention.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207131621	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207131623	As I also mentioned in the speech, the legal assessment of this is that there is no possibility of using a cat door in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207131632	Then it's mr. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207131637	There is something I do not really understand in principle in this problem, and that is that if a marriage with a child is illegitimate under Danish law, those people are not family, and then there can be no right to family life either. I just think it's strange that you don't just try to sit down and look at what kind of premises are involved in what we're discussing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207131707	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207131708	I can say with serenity that I think we've been out in every corner in this connection. We do, of course, because I myself, as I have often pointed out, are very critical in this area and want a very restrictive line. That, of course, is why a very, very restrictive line was put forward. Well, that's what I've got. What's the name of that?
ParlaMint-DK_20170207131735	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207131737	The Minister will agree with me that if marriage between minors is illegitimate in Denmark, then one cannot claim the right to family life, because then one is not family. Well, I'd like to see the law in it, because sometimes I have a feeling that just someone says international obligations, you bow and scrape, and then you accept everything.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207131808	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207131809	I do not quite agree with Mr Seligman on this point. Christian Langballe in. But what I can say is that, for example. may be a 17-year-old and a 19-year-old who voluntarily wants to live together. That may be one of the exceptions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207131829	Thank you, Minister. Then we move on to the rapporteur's line first, Mr President. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207131847	Should a 16-year-old child bride be accommodated with a grown man at an asylum center? Of course not. That's what common sense says. Fortunately, therefore, it has also become the case that, as a rule, the child is separated from his adult spouse, the partner. Fortunately, child brides make up only a few people out of the thousands who seek asylum in Denmark, but that does not matter. There must be order in our values in Denmark, including in the asylum centres. The most important values we have at all are the rights of children, which is why we really welcome today's debate. The fact is that, although last year's government issued an instruction on the accommodation of underage asylum seekers, where the message was that the girls should be separated from the adult men, the guidelines later this year emphasised that accommodation can nevertheless be taken together when very special circumstances advocate it. The Foreign Minister told in a consultation here in the Danish Parliament that this would only happen in very, very few cases. Last Friday I asked how many of them are, if any, and now I understand that it has been about six cases. As examples of these special circumstances, the government has two months ago in a review of Denmark's international obligations in this area, among others. mentioned cases where the couple has children and the minor parent because of e.g. a disability is clearly dependent on the age-old partner's, i.e. husband's, care, care and assistance in caring for the child, or cases where professionals consider that war trauma in the family requires common accommodation to ensure continued parenthood. I understand that there may be such special cases where the child bride and the adult man have to live close to each other for the sake of their common children. After all, in these cases we have two children and not just one child to consider, that is, both the baby and the newly baked mother, who must still be regarded as a child. But I do not understand if the child bride and the adult man are to live in the same room; in the special cases the adult man can then live somewhere else at the asylum centre, or the authorities can ensure that the relationship with mother and child takes place in public and without coercion and abuse. The newborn may need contact with both parents, but we also need to protect the minor mother who should not feel pressured to sleep with a grown man. It is our view that this can well be ensured within the current legislation and conventions, and we therefore see no reason to change the legislation. If the government believes that this model cannot be implemented within the legislation in force, then they have to explain it to the Folketing, and then we have to take a position on it. But until then we will reject this motion for a resolution. The aim must be to ensure a practice in which children do not sleep with adults. It would be grotesque if it were to be provisions of the European Convention on Human Rights, and even more grotesque if it were to be the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which would actually protect the man who commits abuse, and not the child. In conclusion, I would like to say to the 17-year-old refugee girls who say themselves that they would rather live with a grown man than want to live with a grown man. We've seen one of them in the media: Fine, but then you'll have to wait until you're 18. Now you are safe from bombs, war and persecution, and of course we are happy about that, but we also hope that you can find a little patience and show some respect for the values that exist in this country, especially the children's rights. The 18th birthday will come soon, and then you can throw yourself in the arms of your husband, if that's what you want.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207132213	Thank you. Sir. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207132218	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I understand that the Social Democrats will not support the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party. We are of course sorry about this in the Danish People's Party. But I would like to know whether the Social Democratic Party is prepared to discuss the possibility of making some kind of report in committee, so that at least some guidelines are set out as to what we think is acceptable to the country's asylum centres. And then we'll see if we in committee can figure out exactly where the cut should be. That is one question. The second question is based on the fact that I actually understood that this was the case in the last opening debate when we had a new government in Denmark, in the eyes of the goose, that it was Mrs Mette Frederiksen's view that it is completely crazy, as Mr. Mattias Tesfaye also mentions if the conventions prevent us from looking after the children. Mr. Mattias Tesfaye saw that we in the Folketing should make legislation that clearly states that it is the legislation in this House and the concern for the child that has priority, and so must the conventions be secondary?
ParlaMint-DK_20170207132317	Sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207132318	Thank you for the questions. On the first question of whether we are prepared to take part in committee discussions and possibly write a report, I would say: yes, we are always prepared to do so. And what I have said here today is our policy, and that will, of course, be our starting point for such discussions. To the second question, on what my party chairman, Mrs Mette Frederiksen, has said in connection with a discussion in this House, I have of course noted, and I think the authors of the motion for a resolution have also written about it. I would like to say that the practice that we want there to be in the Danish asylum centres is something that we believe can be done within the legislation in force and the conventions in force. We therefore see no reason to change either the legislation or the conventions. However, as I also said in my rapporteur's speech: if the government considers that it is not possible to bring about the practice I have mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, then it must tell the Folketing, and then we must take the discussion from there.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207132413	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207132416	Then I just have to get it right, sir. Mattias Tesfaye also mentioned this in his rapporteur's speech. Is it the view of the Social Democratic Party that if a person under the age of 18 has been married to a person over the age of 18, then it should not be possible for them to live together in the Danish asylum centres? Or is it the view of the Social Democratic Party that this can be done in some cases? Is it such a zero tolerance policy, or is it a slightly more tolerant policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20170207132440	Here you go, sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207132442	Thank you. Our position is that they should not be able to live in rooms together. But in these very special cases we see no problem in them, for example. will be able to live at the asylum centre together and that the infant will therefore be able to maintain contact with his father. However, the authorities must ensure that the meetings that take place between the over 18-year-old man and the under 18-year-old woman are done in a proper manner and that they do not sleep together. That is our position.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207132508	Then it is Mrs Pernille Bendixen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207132512	Thank you. I understood that the rapporteur had asked how many cases there were and had been informed that these were six cases. I think the rapporteur said that, for that reason, it was not much less. With younger children, a case is always a coincidence, and then one has to define a little where the Social Democratic border goes, both in terms of numbers, but also in terms of grade bending the law, because now we have a law that clearly says over 18 years of age.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207132553	Sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207132555	I think it is now about a year ago that Metroxpress started writing articles about minors being accommodated with their spouses or cohabitants in Danish asylum centres, and there I wrote on Facebook that whether it is a case of one or 100 or 1,000 cases, I think it is serious, because it is not just about one couple, one minor woman, girl and the other man over 18, it is also a signal that everyone else who lives at the asylum centre is sending. I think it is quite important that we use that period of asylum to also signal what the Danish values are, so it becomes clear what it is for a country they have come to, and that is why I think it is quite crucial that the Danish values are also present at the Danish asylum centres, and that is also why I started by emphasising in my speech that I do not think it should be neglected here, regardless of whether it is about 1, 10 or 100 pairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207132647	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207132649	It is of course a pity that when you want to signal Danish values, you will not go all the way and draw a line in the sand and mark quite hard that it is so here. Compared to the fact that it's voluntary and that there's no compulsion in relation to these marriages, how can you know for sure? I haven't heard. I hear many times that this is also voluntary and that there is no forced marriage, but how can we know that?
ParlaMint-DK_20170207132717	Sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207132719	To begin with, I believe that we are signalling Danish values by the policy that has been put forward here, because the Danish values are that we are protecting the children first and foremost, and in this case, where there are a couple with an infant, there will be two children in this triangle that we should take into account. This applies both to the big girl who has become pregnant and has had a child that we must of course take into account, and who should therefore not be able to sleep under the same duvet as the man, but also the baby. And it is in this context that I say that if there are professionals who consider that the danger should be around, I would like to take that into account. Unfortunately, I did not have time to answer Mrs Pernille Bendixen's last question, but I hope that another rapporteur can repeat it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207132802	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks to Mr. Mattia's Tesfaye, and then it's Mr. Knox. Jakob Engel-Schmidt, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207132811	Thank you. We are dealing with a motion for a resolution, B 38, which requires the government to impose a ban on minors seeking asylum being accommodated with their spouses or partners. So the government agrees that we share the intention. As the Minister has explained in detail, an instruction was implemented so decisively that yesterday the Ombudsman made a criticism of our practice. I'm sorry to hear about that, sir. Martin Henriksen, that it is often a disappointment when we meet here in Parliament, but I am afraid that it will not be much better today when it comes to this matter. But it is quite serious. We are in a country where I cannot imagine anything more culturally unnatural than an elderly gentleman who marries a child. We will not accept that. Nor will we accept this at our asylum centres or, for that matter, elsewhere in society. Culturally, it has also been the case in this country that an 18-year-old person fell in love with another person of 17 years old, in the old days, you could get what you called a royal letter if it was judged that the intentions were real and that there was love in the relationship and no compulsion. It is the position of the Left that a person under the age of 18 who is married to a person over the age of 18 arrives at a Danish asylum centre, so the parties must be separated as a starting point. And it is only in the particular case where there are arguments that it should not be the case that they can stay together. I would have liked to see, as did my party, that tomorrow's practice would be as it was a week ago. Unfortunately, this is not possible under Article 18 of the European Convention on Human Rights. I think there is more than one minister, myself and others who have asked in the Ministry whether there was an opportunity to tighten further in this area. However, as most people know, as do the authors of the motion for a resolution, we are in a situation where the Convention on Human Rights provides for an exception. You may think so of what you want, but it is important, I think that as a country we live up to our international obligations, and there may also be good arguments for an 18-year-old man to be able to live under the same asylum centre roof as his 17-year-old girlfriend or wife. Having said that, I would like to signal on behalf of the Left that we are seeing very seriously in this area. I think I've made that clear. If Dansk Folkeparti has any interest in working on a report or statement, we are very interested in it. I hope we can find out afterwards. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207133103	Sir. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207133106	Thank you. The conventions can therefore be interpreted, and the Ministry's original interpretation was in line with the Danish People's Party's interpretation, namely that it was possible to do so within the conventions. And, of course, that interpretation could be maintained by the Ministry. However, other methods could also be chosen in order to get away from the current interpretation. We could adopt legislation and then it would be the case that legislation adopted on the basis of the Constitution weighs more heavily than the conventions. Why does the government and the Left not opt for that approach if it is really what they mean?
ParlaMint-DK_20170207133146	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207133147	As Mr. Martin Henriksen may know, I'm not a trained lawyer. I'm a civilian economist. Martin Henriksen one day to start a business, I would very much like to help with that. When there are things you don't know, you ask people who are smarter than you are, and that's what I and the rest of my party have done. And the legal assessment that the country's best lawyers have come up with is that this cannot be done and that we need to respect our international obligations. I hope that I signal very clearly that we will not accept child brides at the asylum centres of the country, along with older gentlemen and men. I also think that the data on which the discussion is based show that it does not occur either. That is why I also think it is important to emphasise that what the Danish People's Party actually wants to happen in the country's asylum centres is happening today. And after all, I hope Martin Henriksen will find a little satisfaction in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207133236	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207133238	I fully understand that Mr. Simpson... Jakob Engel-Schmidt is not a lawyer, but Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt is the legislator, and then Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt has been involved in legislation. Moreover, the lawyers can interpret the legislation which Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt is a member of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Now Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt that the best lawyers in the country have come up with how it should be. Anyway, I guess that mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt believes that the best lawyers are in government offices, and they originally came to the conclusion that this could be done. So my question was simply: why do we not return to the original interpretation? This could be done by adopting the motion for a resolution of the Danish People's Party. But I acknowledge that the Left would like to look at a report, and I hope that it will help to tighten it up as much as possible. So that was more of a comment than a question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207133324	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207133325	Yes, and I look forward to it. I am sure that together we can achieve a great deal in relation to a report. I would, however, like to add that comment to Mr Seligman's question. Martin Henriksen's comment that we, as politicians, also have to respect the institution called the Ombudsman, and that is what the government is doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207133341	Thank you. There are no more comments... Yes. It's so good to get in early. Here you go, sir. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207133353	Thank you, President. I think it is a really bad excuse to say that you are not a lawyer but a civil economist, because we have to take a position on the fundamental aspects of legislation, both defending it and criticising it when that is the case. I think there is a major problem in the fact that the recitals in this paragraph are that the words of the European Convention on Human Rights are given so much weight, and not only that, but also the interpretation of it, which goes far beyond the text itself. I do not believe that there is anything in the basic text itself about the right to family life, which means that when we ban child bride, we cannot also separate if it is. There is no family relationship that can be invoked when you are a minor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207133441	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207133443	Sir. Christian Langballe, of course, has a good point in that as a member of the Danish Parliament, questions must be asked about the premises that are being drawn up, including for those who assess the legislation. That is what we have been doing, and when I mentioned my argument and my comment before, it was not a fundamental argument for our position; it was a finding that when you need to know how far you can go to tighten the legislation, it is important that you think I am well informed. The legal situation that the Danish People's Party wants to exist in the country's asylum centres exists with the current legislation, and I would be quite insecure and have a stomach ache if it were that the opposite was the case. I recognise, and I believe that in some areas the European Convention on Human Rights should be modernised. Several others in my party also think so, and it is also known to the Danish People's Party, but as long as we have agreed to the Convention, we should also respect the guidelines it sets out, as well as the Ombudsman's opinion that was available on the other day.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207133550	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207133552	Yeah, yeah, but I get that, too. I think we are very critical of the European Convention on Human Rights, and I think most people know that. Where I think the problem is coming, it is always said that we are going straight to the Convention line, but there are some who are just going the other way and pushing the limit of what the Convention can mean, the other way, including here in the Folketing, among other things. on the left, pushing the interpretations into the absurd. In fact, I just think that, when we have this discussion, it is essential that we take a position on the principle: can we even invoke the right to family life when a marriage between minors is illegitimate?
ParlaMint-DK_20170207133637	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207133638	As a starting point, I also think that this is a good question. However, we in this country have had a long history of Mr. Christian Langballe, if he was 18, could get a royal letter to marry his wife if at that time she was 17 years old. With the exception provided for in the current legislation, each case is assessed individually, and there are very strong and powerful dividing lines for whether it is possible to do so at all, I am comfortable with the way one administers. By the way, I'd like to say to Mr. Christian Langballe, I fully share the view that there are members of the Danish Parliament who are going the other way; I am also critical of that, as is my party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207133714	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207133723	I would like to start by saying that the phenomenon of forced marriage is, of course, totally unacceptable, and it is whether it is children or adults who are forced to marry against their will. Moreover, this is also an aggravating circumstance in the case of children. However, I do not see any sense in separating all the couples in the asylum system, because one party is under 18 years of age. I fully agree with, among other things. The Red Cross and the Ombudsman say that there has to be a concrete and individual assessment of each case. Because I have to say that I do not necessarily think that there is any problem with a 17-year-old and an 18-year-old who are boyfriends and who may even have a child together, living together. The Red Cross has pointed this out, and I can understand that it can be very violent for a 17-year-old and an 18-year-old who are boyfriends, who have a child together and who have been on the run together, to be separated by coercion. One has to ask: what is the purpose of separating the two if it is obvious that none of them are forced into the boyfriend relationship? I would just like to say a few words about the Ombudsman, because the draft statement by the Parliamentary Ombudsman received yesterday Monday, I think, in this way, is an excellent and factual basis for today's debate on the asylum seeker couple, where one of the spouses or lovers is under 18 years of age. In the draft, which, because of the way in which this motion for a resolution has been dealt with, has not yet become a proper statement, the Ombudsman states that he considers that the handling of the case by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration or the Minister of Foreign Affairs is highly questionable. Instead of separating all the two, the Minister should have ensured that a concrete assessment of each case was made in order to meet the obligations arising from international conventions, but also from general principles of administrative law. The instructions from the Minister to the asylum centres provided for illegal practices, the Ombudsman states. I think that is strong words from a man and an institution that weighs its words on a gold weight. Fortunately, the Minister has also changed the practice so that today there is an individual assessment, which the Minister has also been called upon to do, among other things. Red Cross. I have to say that I am surprised that the Minister had not checked beforehand whether this instruction, which was sent out to the asylum centres of the country, was contrary to various international conventions or not. As I have said, the proposal before us today is that the government should legislate on this practice, which the Ombudsman therefore points out to be illegal, namely that all couples should state themselves that it has been stated that the consequences of such a resolution can not only be a breach of the European Convention on Human Rights, but also of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child. The Danish People's Party so disagrees, and if it is true that it is contrary to the Convention, then the Danish People's Party says that it is not afraid to go beyond the conventions and to legislate a practice which, according to the Ombudsman, is contrary to the Convention. The Danish People's Party so solemnly refers to the constitution of the Danish Empire and points out that it takes precedence over international conventions. I would like to remind you quietly that under the Danish Empire's constitution we have also had a tradition of royal letter in Denmark. Thus, while the Danish Empire's constitution has been in force here in Denmark, at the age of 17 you have been able to obtain a royal letter that allowed you to marry an 18-year-old if there were reasons for this, for example. pregnancy. And I have to repeat once again the very central point, I think, that the European Convention on Human Rights is something that we have voluntarily joined here in the Folketing; a majority of Members of Parliament have decided that Denmark should follow the European Convention on Human Rights and also the judgments that come from the Court of Justice. As I began by saying: forced marriages and the phenomenon of child brides are, of course, totally unacceptable. If there is the slightest sense that there is coercion at stake, and if someone is in a relationship that they do not want to be in, one must of course strike down on it and make sure that the young girl, as it will typically be, is forced into something that she does not want to, has every possibility of getting out of that relationship. It is also the case, of course, that couples in Denmark cannot live together as married couples and cohabitants if one is under 15 years of age, which is the sexually low age. Of course. I would like to conclude by saying that I think it is strange to use the concept of child abuse if, for example, there is one. is about a 17-year-old girl and an 18-year-old boy. We do not support the proposal. We think it is wisest, not just because it is not consistent with the Convention, to have an individual review.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207134241	Thank you. Sir. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207134244	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen said at one point that there could be a couple, quite simply. Does Enhedslisten really think it is Enhedslisten's view that there is such a young girl and a young man who meets in Syria, and then they are boyfriends, and then they decide to run off to Denmark on a love trip or something like that? After all, in many of these societies it's relationships that have been agreed between the families, and so I think you should be careful to compare this with a normal relationship in Denmark, for example. Does Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen not recognise that because there are such cultural differences, that comparison simply does not last? In other words, we are dealing with some other situations, we are dealing with situations where we have to assume that it is a long way along the way something that has been agreed between families, and therefore there is much to suggest that it is not relationships, marriage that have been voluntarily entered into. And should we not use common sense there and say that then we say 'no' to this kind of thing in Denmark, even if they come in via the asylum system?
ParlaMint-DK_20170207134342	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207134344	I would like to start by saying that I find the concept of a love trip extremely inappropriate. These are people, whether they are children or adults who have fled from the Islamic State or assad's bombs in Syria. I think so too, sir. Martin Henriksen agrees with me. There is no doubt that there is a difference between how to be a boyfriend in most of Syria and in Denmark. I think that goes without saying. But that does not mean that we assume that all the couples who come from Syria live together under compulsion. My point is, yes, I think you can find a couple where one is 17 and where the other is 18 and where they, for example. has a child together where there is no compulsion, that is, where none of them are in that relationship involuntarily. If there is the slightest suspicion that someone is in such a situation involuntarily, then of course action must be taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207134440	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207134442	Now it was Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen who began to talk about normal boyfriend relationships. It wasn't yours. Social control is incredibly strong in some of these environments, including where they come from. Therefore, it is not just the case that they say to the Danish authorities that they may not have much confidence from the outset that they are in a compulsive relationship, that they are in a forced marriage. You cannot count on them to tell the truth when you simply ask them. I would like to know how a party such as the Enhedslisten, which typically looks forward to defending children's rights and women's rights, can help to stamp out a practice which, in reality, accepts a very medieval view of women and children, at least in our view in the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207134524	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207134525	But I don't think I'd say to Mr. Martin Henriksen, that it is very medieval and reprehensible that a 17-year-old and an 18-year-old live together. I think it is very early to have children, and I think that having children so early can have very severe consequences, but I do not think that it is per. definition must be separated if you are 17 and 18. This applies regardless of whether we are talking about Danish society in general, where there are also 17-year-old and 18-year-old ethnic Danish citizens who live together and may even have children together, or whether we are talking about young people in the asylum centres. I think we should make sure that we do what is necessary, and I think that the Red Cross's point is that it can actually be very violent to separate a couple who may even have a child together is very important.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207134612	Thank you. Mrs Pernille Bendixen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207134615	Thank you. Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen once again says that it is not possible, of course, to have forced marriages. And I can get a little worried about that, because how can we be certain that we are not talking about forced marriages? It seems to me that one is quite confident that it is simply considered that this is not the case, but as Mr. Martin Henriksen also says that there is enormous social control, so should it not be said as a starting point that one's suspicion is that it is coercive and then the doubt could benefit him? Could we not do this instead of doing the other thing, which is to say that we do not think it is coercive? Shouldn't you turn it around?
ParlaMint-DK_20170207134700	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207134702	But it is actually waiting for it, because the starting point today, which has been addressed to the Ombudsman, is that couples who come to Denmark as asylum seekers, one of whom is less than 18 years old, as a starting point do not live together, but make a concrete and individual assessment. And there may be cases where you consider that there is no problem here. And that could be the case, for example. be a couple where one is 17 years and the other is 18 years, i.e. where there is a single year of age difference. And I have to say that I think it is a problem if you start to assume that everyone who comes from Syria is probably living in forced marriages. I do not believe that all people who come from Syria live in forced marriages. In that case, no one in the asylum centres should be allowed to live together. But Mrs Pernille Bendixen is right to say that it can be complicated to find out when it is compulsory. After all, it is a question of having skilled children's experts at the asylum centres, who are right, very good at creating trust relations with asylum seekers who come, not least, those asylum seekers who are under 18 years of age and who live in such a situation here and show that in Denmark there are all kinds of ways to get out of such a relationship, if that is what you want.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207134815	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207134817	However, in other cases, where children are exposed to something that is very unpleasant, and it could, for example, be domestic violence or sexual abuse, or whatever it might be, children are extremely skilled at keeping it from the outside world. And I'm just worried that no good enough assessments are being made, because the same mechanism applies here, you cover it up. So it is not the case that you voluntarily come and say to the Danish authorities: I am married in a forced marriage. I do not share Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen's concern about those assessments. As far as I am concerned, it is from the outset that the vast majority of those who come are older men with younger girls.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207134906	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207134907	I think there are 34 pairs where one is under 18 years of age. I think there's 4, where there's a 17-year-old and a 18-year-old. And that is a very good example of a case in which I think that there is not necessarily a question of coercion and where there is nothing very terrible at stake, because a 17-year-old and an 18-year-old have a relationship. But Mrs Pernille Bendixen is absolutely right in saying that it is certainly complicated to create the relationship of trust with asylum seekers who come here, which makes them safe to say that they, for example, are in a position to do so. is in a relationship they don't want to be in. Exactly the same problems arise when they enter the municipality and have to live. But as I said, it is not the case in Denmark that 17-year-olds and 18-year-olds are not allowed to be boyfriends and live together, and I am quite happy about that. We have a sexually low age of 15 years, and I think that makes sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207135003	Thank you. Then there are no more comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207135011	Thank you. We are dealing here with a motion for a resolution from the Danish People's Party which calls on the government to ensure that no asylum seeker under 18 years of age is accommodated with a partner or a spouse. We call them child brides, and as I'm sure the rest of you do, it's at least the case for me that when I say the word child bride, I run cold down my back. I remember seeing a picture of a 12-year-old girl standing in her white scoop and just getting married to a man who seemed to be 50 years old, and there were no words at all for how grotesque and wrong it is. Of course, we shall never have to stamp that out; of course, it will never ever happen in Denmark. Fortunately, this is not the case in Denmark either, for it is the case that girls under the age of 15 are never accommodated with a partner or a spouse. Whether they claim that the marriage has been made voluntarily or not, we always separate them, and I appreciate that. When it comes to them between the ages of 15 and 18, the starting point is that they are separated, but there may be special cases where you allow them to be accommodated together. In cases where, for example, as Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen said, it is a matter of a 17-year-old and an 18-year-old who are married, and one has a clear feeling that the marriage has been voluntarily concluded. Maybe they have an infant... we in the Liberal Alliance can accept that they are not separated. As the Minister mentioned in his speech, it is indeed the case that on arrival they are actually being separated and given what I think the Minister called a breathing space, and here it is important to use that breathing space to talk to the girl and to make sure that it is voluntary. And it is quite true that you can never be 100% sure of that, but fortunately we have skilled professionals who have to take advantage of that situation to get a thorough knowledge of the attitude about this marriage and of course make it clear to the girl what her opportunities are in Denmark to divorce her husband if that is what she wants. But that is to say, if you consider that there has been a voluntary marriage and there may even be a child in the relationship, and this is, for example, a voluntary marriage. A 17-year-old and an 18-year-old, we in the Liberal Alliance don't mean that you always and per. I want the definition to take these people apart. That is exactly what the Danish People's Party wants with its proposal, so that there can never be cases where they should not be separated, and that is why we in the Liberal Alliance do not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207135258	Thank you to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207135318	Thank you. With this proposal, the Danish People's Party wants the government to be required to ensure that a legal state is established as soon as possible, after which no minor asylum seeker is accommodated with any spouse or partner. I think it is important to make it clear that the alternative holds the view that forced marriages are, of course, totally unacceptable. And if there are children involved, that is clearly an aggravating circumstance. After all, last year the government introduced guidelines which were later criticised for being contrary to the respect of European human rights for the unity of the family. The Danish People's Party did not think this was a real decision, and that is why they have tabled this motion for a resolution. Before last year, the staff at asylum centres always had to make an individual assessment of what was best in the particular case, and here, of course, with regard to the child, which was typically married to a man who was older. In very many cases, as we have heard from the platform, there have been 17-year-old girls who were married or cohabited with 18-21-year-old men. In some cases they had children together, and they had fled across the Mediterranean together, and they came to Denmark together, and then, after a concrete assessment, they were accommodated together, if especially the woman wanted it. The individual assessment then removed the government a year ago and forced all couples, one of whom was under 18 years of age, without an individual assessment and without asking the couple, especially the underage woman, what she wanted. Not only did this result in criticism of the violation of human rights, but it also resulted in a large number of sad cases, which we have heard about from the Red Cross, with women who tried to commit suicide and women who were hospitalized with mental breakdown. The Red Cross was deeply concerned and on several occasions asked the Ministry for permission to depart from the relevant guidelines. Against this background, the Ombudsman expressed a very serious criticism yesterday. The Ombudsman has stated that the instruction sent from the Ministry was contrary to the law. I think that is, of course, highly questionable, and I am glad that the Minister here in the Chair takes note of it. In the alternative, we believe that what is crucial in this case is that where one is a minor, where one is a married couple, if the marriage has been made under coercion or undue pressure, but in those cases where it must be assumed that the relationship is voluntary and that there is nothing against a common accommodation and where the couple may have children together, we think it is absolutely right to make an individual assessment and to hear what they want, and, of course, in particular the minor child. Then there's the thing about us calling it a baby bride. In the vast majority of cases, there are 17-year-old women and slightly older men aged between 18 and 21 years. You have the right to have a boyfriend or spouse in Denmark too, if you were under 18. It should also be pointed out here that children under the age of 15 are, as a rule, separated from their spouse. I think it is quite right that an individual assessment should be made, and I am glad that this is the practice that the Minister is following in the future, and that is why the alternative is voting against this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207135734	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lotte Rod. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207135744	Thank you for that, President. The Danish People's Party wants the Folketing to require the government to ensure as soon as possible that minors asylum seekers do not live with their potential spouse. I agree with the Danish People's Party that young women should not be forced to live with an older husband, but things are not so black and white. We are in the Radical Left, starting with marriages with minors, as there will often be repression. No one should remain or remain in conditions they do not want in Denmark, and we cannot accept either cultural or religious reasons for oppression. If a woman wants to get away from her husband, we have to help her with that. As far as I know, there is at least one case where, after separation, a minor did not want to be reunited with her spouse, and she must have that freedom. But what about the situations where the couples care about each other? They may be 15 and 18 years old, or it may be a 17-year-old woman and a 21-year-old man who has a child together. Then it is neither in the interests of the child nor of the woman to separate them. Our rapporteur, Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, has told me that the separation of some of these couples has been traumatic and that some have attempted suicide after separation. That is why the bottom line for me is that this is about people and about freedom from oppression of all kinds. We have that freedom here in Denmark, and so it is not a freedom from oppression to be forced away from her husband, just because he is 19 and you are 17 years old. We can have confidence in professionalism, including in this area. So the Radical Left cannot support the proposal, but we would like to discuss, also with the Danish People's Party, how we will be better at helping those women who want to get away from their men, and in general how we prevent young women from getting married at all to older men. We know, of course, that wedding age is often linked to level of education. So if the Danish People's Party is so concerned about women's rights, perhaps we could work together for higher development aid and thus schooling for all girls.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207140020	Sir. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207140022	Well, of course it is gratifying that the Radical Left is in favour of women's rights. We also do so in the Danish People's Party, but then I find it rather difficult to understand why the motion for a resolution is rejected. As far as the Danish authorities are concerned, I fully agree that we have skilled and professionally competent officials who have to sit and assess these matters, but sometimes they can also be given a task which is virtually impossible to solve satisfactorily. After all, they do not have a Chineseman's chance to know under what conditions a marriage has entered into, for example. Syria is simply not known. Then it would not be better to take the starting point of taking care to protect the interests of the children and women and say that if you come to Denmark, we expect you to live by the standards and standards and values that apply here, and it is therefore that child bride, or what just reminds of a child bride, is simply not acceptable in Danish society. If they are eventually granted a residence permit in Denmark and enter society, then they may be able to adapt in the way they so desire. But when they are in the Danish asylum system, it is the entrance to society if they end up with a residence permit, we should then be at least 100 percent sure that they are aware of what fundamental values apply in Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207140130	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207140132	But excuse me, sir. Martin Henriksen does not have a Chineseman's chance to know whether the relationship should have been concluded voluntarily. That is why it must be a concrete assessment and not Mr Seligman. Martin Henriksen, who has already made a decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207140150	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207140152	But that is where we allow ourselves to take the view that common sense can then be used. When we know that they come from countries and from cultures where, unfortunately, it is not abnormal, perhaps it is more the norm for families to agree on marriage and relationships between their children, then the starting point should be that we separate them when they come to Denmark. Because we will not accept a slippery slope in which it is said that, in a sense, it is considered that child brides are not acceptable, that they should not be forced into a marriage, that there should be no social pressure and that it should not be an arranged marriage, but that we should not basically know it. There is much to be said for the fact that this is actually what has been the case. And if there is just a little bit to argue that this has been the case, would it not be better to be on the safe side?
ParlaMint-DK_20170207140233	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207140234	I believe that child brides are totally unacceptable. There are no women, girls, who must be forced to marry an older man. But it is simply wrong when Mr. Martin Henriksen says it is common sense that everyone should be separated. There may be a good reason, for example: A 17-year-old and an 18-year-old love each other, maybe they have a child together. So it is not necessarily the best interests of the child or of the woman to be separated. That must depend on the actual assessment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207140309	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur, and then it is Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207140322	In the SF we attach great importance to the fact that throughout the whole discussion of Danish values, which is often run, women's rights and women's equality are a very important part of what is described as Danish values, and that this is a major battle which the Left in particular has waged for many years, by the way, with opposition from the right over the years and not least the Danish People's Party, but it is something quite different. But in any case it has been a very important struggle over the years, and this also applies, of course, to the people who come from a different culture from the Danish one. It also means that we are against forced marriages, they are illegal. We against arranged marriages, it's a cultural struggle at first, but we're against it. We are opposed to child brides and are, as it were, in line with what other rapporteurs have said here today. We also believe as a starting point that this is what we should take as a basis when asylum seekers come to Denmark. But then it is so, it can be said that the instruction issued by the Foreigners' Board on 10 February last year, which is, of course, that you want to forcibly separate everyone, did not turn out to hold water legally. That is why the Ombudsman has made his statement, and the debate we are having today comes right into the debate on the Ombudsman's statement, which is also coming now, and which is, of course, quite important, as others have also asked, what is the reason why there is such a violent danger in February last year without having to investigate it thoroughly. Isn't it a little embarrassing for the Ministry to turn this out, and then you have to go ashore after the Ombudsman's criticisms have been made? I certainly think it is worth looking at why this was the case if it had not been known in advance. Was it a directive, an order from a minister who wanted to see action, despite what she was told from the official apparatus? I don't think that's uninteresting. But what the Danish People's Party wants is that they will have turned back the time before the Ombudsman made his statement, that there must be no exceptions, one, one might say, relatively inflexible approach to life, and indeed it is not surprising that such is the party. You cannot see that there can be cases where it can be common sense to leave young people together. Although it does not fit in with some principle that the Danish People's Party has, we are now in favour of what is called common sense, and that is also the reason for the criticism that has come from the Ombudsman, as well as compliance with the European Convention on Human Rights. So we obviously cannot support this proposal from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207140649	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207140656	The Danish People's Party raises a very important issue. I and we are in principle and strongly opposed to child brides. It is totally unacceptable, it must be condemned, it must be prevented. Unfortunately, more and more of this is happening, especially in the neighbouring regions of Syria. Imagine it was your daughters who had married 13-, 14-, 15-year-olds and had children at 14-, 15-, 16-year-olds. That would not be acceptable if it were Danish young people. We must protect girls from getting married at a young age, it is their right to decide their own body, their lives, sexuality and future. We support the idea behind the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party. Children have the right not to be forced into a marriage and to be sexually exploited regardless of culture or religion. Last year, the Minister for Integration decided to separate the couples in the case of child brides. We supported the resolution and we thought it was the right thing to do. It has also been shown in a way that it has acted preventively. There has hardly been any child bride since the decision was taken, so it was the right decision. When we cannot support the motion for a resolution of the Danish People's Party, it has something to do with our international obligations, which force us to have exceptions. Granted, it is one of the times when you get annoyed with international conventions. The special cases must be exempt. I would like to admit that I am not convinced that international agreements in this respect are good for minors. One can say that it is innocent if a 17-year-old and a 21-year-old are together without compulsion and want each other, but how can we check whether a minor has chosen it himself or has been forced to do so? What if they got married 4-5 years ago and have two, three children? Then we're talking about marriage at a very, very early age, and by accepting this we'll stamp it out. I believe that we must continue to explore the possibilities of protecting minors from early forced marriages. We are aware that the Ombudsman will make a criticism and that he believes that this is illegal practice in relation to separate accommodation. I repeat that it was the right decision that was taken at the time, and we must take note of the Ombudsman's criticisms. It was the right decision, and it has worked preventively. Despite the criticism, I believe that, within the framework of our international commitments, we must do everything we can to protect minors from marriages of which they do not want to be a part. This is the least we can do in relation to minors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207141019	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Bendixen, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207141024	Thank you. Well, it's nice to hear that mr. Naser Khader is largely in line with the Danish People's Party. We can hear that from the rapporteur's speech. Then it is simply surprising that the proposal cannot be accepted. Sir. Naser Khader says that child brides must be prevented and that we must protect these girls. Should it not then be assumed, from the outset, that there is coercion for all who enter? Then there is an individual assessment, and it could be estimated that in some cases there might be no compulsion. However, is it not wrong to assume that they are generally voluntary marriages, and then there may be individual cases of coercion? Haven't we put on the wrong hat?
ParlaMint-DK_20170207141106	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207141107	I find it extremely difficult to accept that there may be voluntary action if it is less than 15 years of age. It may be that in one's own self-conception it is seen as voluntary. I just don't believe it. In relation to those under the age of 15, we really need to be obs. However, I would like to repeat that at the moment hardly anyone is coming. I've been trying to get the numbers. There is hardly anyone coming, and that has not been done since we made that decision. So it's been preventive.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207141142	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207141143	However, as the rapporteur himself says, we cannot know how long a marriage has lasted before they come up here. Then you could actually have been married at 8 and come up here at 15 or 20 years old. In relation to the assessment of whether it is coercion: we all know how difficult it is, for example. for a woman to break out of a violent marriage, or how difficult it is for a child to tell about domestic abuse or something like that. How can one think that they can just magicate over in an asylum centre and in 14 days assess whether there is force when we are struggling with this everywhere else in the system in relation to the whole negative social heritage and something like that? It's a little weird.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207141225	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207141225-2	If we are to prevent this, we need to talk to them all and have an overall assessment. What I also understand is that during the conversation there are two couples as I remember the one who chose divorce because they recognised that it was coercion. So by having a conversation with them, both together and separately, you might be able to find out whether it is voluntary or coercive. But it's really hard to document it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207141301	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207141305	Thank you. In fact, I believe that many of the Danes who have been following this debate today in the Assembly are taking a little to heart, because many, including the rapporteur, say that it is law that prevents us from doing the right thing, namely separating these people. But it's us here at Christiansborg who do the law, so we can't just hide behind the law and say that because there's some law that says something, we can't do what common sense says. So I would like to ask the rapporteur what action the rapporteur sees as unfolding in order to change the law that leaves us with the sluggishness of action. It must never be the case that, as politicians who do the law, we hide behind the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207141404	I don't think I've been hiding behind the law. What I am saying is that the limits are on the conventions that we have signed up to, and as long as we are members of them, we have to comply with the conventions that are there. I also said that this is one of the cases where international conventions are irritated.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207141431	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207141434	Is Mr. Is Khader prepared to go so far as to derat the convention? Is Mr. Naser Khader it? And should we not at all agree that sometimes we are a little too quick to accede to conventions in this Parliament? Just to take another example: the citizenship convention is for example. not acceded to by France but acceded to by Denmark. If France has not acceded to a convention, is it so important that Denmark is included in a convention? I'm just asking.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207141504	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207141505	I am open and I have been open for many years to challenge, modernise and update all the conventions; I agree with that, but it requires other countries to join in. That is why we can have a position that says that this is the way we want to go. I would like to go in that direction, as the Conservative People's Party would like.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207141534	Thank you. Sir. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207141540	I believe that the rapporteur and I agree that the whole problem of child brides belongs to certain cultures which are not ours, among others. in Muslim culture. What I find problematic in referring to the conventions is that these conventions that we have once signed are not documents which, as it were, have fallen from the sky and are inviolable and untouchable. These are political contractual documents which can of course be changed if they are contrary to what Denmark would like to do, and I think that you are sitting on your hands too much, because it may well be that you are now saying that you will wait to look at it in relation to the other countries. They are increasingly being challenged, and the countries are becoming more and more challenged. There I simply lack a much more critical approach to the things that are happening, also in order to protect the legal order that applies here in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207141642	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207141647	I agree that they must be challenged, that they must be modernised, that they must be changed. Let's just get started.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207141655	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207141657	The rapporteur may take that message to the government. It may be that the rapporteur has a greater impact than the one I have, among other things. so far has had. So I'll be delighted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207141712	Sir. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207141713	I'll do everything I can to get us to go in that direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207141721	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207141730	Thank you. With the motion for a resolution, we in the Danish People's Party wish to mark clearly, as clearly as we can now, that a life in Denmark is incompatible with forced marriage, multi-wife or child bride. We do not agree that there should be an opportunity to accommodate minors for asylum seekers together with any spouses or interns. It comes against Danish tradition and culture when we experience very young girls who come to the country with older spouses. It is not reasonable for Denmark, out of misguided consideration of traditions elsewhere in the world, not to come to the rescue of these young girls by separating them from their spouses. We in the Danish People's Party believe that the government should already ensure, when asylum seekers arrive in Denmark, that under no circumstances minors asylum seekers are accommodated with any partner or spouse. In our view, it will contribute to normalisation as normal as it may now be from the conditions at asylum centres that they reflect, as far as possible, Danish conditions, values and rules under which asylum seekers should also be expected to comply if they are subsequently granted asylum in this country. The rules in Denmark are that, as a general rule, one must be legal in order to get married, and we see no reason to depart from that tradition for the sake of foreign cultural standards. It has been stated in various places that in certain situations it may be contrary to Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights, on the right to respect for family life and the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, to separate child bride from their spouse or partner. We disagree with that, and we believe that the proposal precisely protects the right of children to be children, and if it really is the case that international conventions require Denmark to accept marriage between a child and an adult, it is our view that we should maintain the original decision to separate the couples mentioned, and we believe that we can afford to do so with reference to the fact that laws adopted here in the Folketing, based on the Danish Empire's constitution, thus take precedence over international conventions. I note that in the public debate there is broad political agreement on the view that the Danish People's Party has put forward here today. I have also noted that, despite the broad consensus in the public debate on the view we have put forward here today by the Danish People's Party, there is no majority in the Danish Parliament wishing to vote in favour of the Danish People's Party's motion for a resolution. I hope that in some way we can follow up on the consensus which is in any case out there in public, whether it is with a report or with something else, that is what time has to show. We are happy to make a report if we can agree on what should be in a report. We will, of course, continue to work on this, since there is no majority in favour of the actual resolution. I also find it thought-provoking that in the Folketing, I understand, there is a broad majority in favour of the fact that we have a 24-year rule, for example, and the reason why we have a 24-year rule is because the young girls and women must be mature enough to resist forced marriages, for example, but when we get to what is going on at the Danish asylum centres, we do not have a 24-year rule, which we have a 15-year rule. So I think, in all its simplicity, that it says how wrong things actually are. But we hope that we will be able to move forward in committee and, of course, I regret that there is no majority in favour of the resolution as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207142042	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. No one else has asked for the floor at all, so the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207142113	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 9 February 2017. It is first the rapporteur for the questioners, sir. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207142131	Thank you. We have raised this question debate from the Danish People's Party because we have noticed that this is the case in several parts of Denmark, and it sounds crazy that Danes have come into the minority. Most recently we have seen it in Brøndby Strand, which is the first place where there is a postal code where the Danes have come in a minority. We have seen for a number of years it can be in Mjølnerparken, it can be in Vollsmose, it can be in so many other areas in Denmark that because of the influx that has been to Denmark, primarily through the asylum system and because many family members have come to Denmark, but of course also because people have arrived in the 1960s and 1970s to Denmark to work from among other things. Turkey and Pakistan, etc., that there are simply areas where one might well say that Danish culture is, to put it mildly, retreating. The authorities find it difficult to get in, Danes feel that it is difficult to stand firm on their own culture, and in some places Danes are also harassed simply because they are Danes, and because they may have allowed themselves to stand up to some who cause trouble and cause unrest in the residential area in question. Therefore, we have addressed the following question to the Minister: How does the government feel about more people living in Brøndby Strand with an immigrant background than with a Danish background, and this gives rise to new initiatives to stop the violent immigration?
ParlaMint-DK_20170207142248	Thank you. Then there is a reply from the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207142300	I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for asking this question which I think is important. It is a question in which I have been asked to explain how the government feels about more people living in Brøndby Strand with immigrant backgrounds than with Danish backgrounds, and whether this gives rise to new initiatives to stop the violent immigration. The first part of the question, i.e. how I relate to the fact that in Brøndby Strand more people live with immigrant background than with Danish background, can initially be answered with a single sentence, namely that it is deeply problematic. Because I think we can just as well say it as it is: the less control we have on immigration, especially from non-western countries, the greater the problems of integration and the more the Danish cohesion is challenged. And the more non-western immigrants concentrate geographically, the more the areas in question are challenged. But it also challenges Denmark at all. I have full sympathy for the Danish People's Party's desire to protect the Danish welfare community, and I share it unequivocally. This also means limiting non-western immigration to Denmark and creating the best framework for successful integration. As far as I am concerned, there is no doubt whatsoever that the number of foreigners matters. The government has therefore implemented 40 restrictions in the field of foreigners since we joined the Danish People's Party and fortunately together with the Danish People's Party. These are 40 tightenings precisely to ensure that our rules on foreigners are adapted to the current refugee situation, and so it is to take good care of Denmark. These are 40 austerity measures which will help to create the conditions for the more successful integration of those who are already in this country. These are 40 restrictions that we really needed after a few years of a red government. These are restrictions which have reversed the relaxation of the foreign policy implemented by the Social Democratic Party when they had the power of government. It is 40 tightenings that have worked, for 6,200 people applied for asylum in Denmark last year, and it is less than a third of the over 21,000 people who applied for asylum in 2015 ~ the year in which we took over government power. In addition, the number of family reunifications has almost halved, from 2,600 in 2015 to 1,400 in 2016. And, of course, we continue to keep a close eye on developments and to take the necessary steps to keep track of the refugee situation. The pressure on Europe's external borders remains great, and we have seen how migratory flows can quickly change and take a different direction, but can also increase in strength. We must act in good time and, therefore, the government will continue to strengthen the strict, consistent and realistic immigration policy. With the 2017 Finance Act, new significant steps were taken. A so-called emergency brake will be introduced into the Aliens Act so that, in a crisis situation, we can reject asylum seekers at the border. A change will be made to the permanent residence rules so that in future higher demands are made on refugees and immigrants' abilities and willingness to integrate into Danish society. There will be stronger action in the field of broadcasting and a number of economic measures will also increase the desire of foreigners to return voluntarily. The government also wants a new asylum system, which removes the basis for the business model of traffickers and, at the same time, relieves pressure on Europe's external borders. In addition, the government wants to carry out further tightenings in the area of family reunification, so that we have a strong focus on precisely reducing the influx. The number of non-western immigrants means something, and the low influx therefore also gives us more air to concentrate on those who have already come to focus on helping refugees to take part also in the values and values that we live by here, because integration must never become a question of Danes and immigrants having to find each other by meeting a little in the middle, by bent a little towards each other, but rather a question of the fact that those who come here must take Denmark and the value set we have into account. Foreigners staying in Denmark, it is for the benefit of Denmark, but it is also for the benefit of the individual. For me, it's all about having a fight with decades of fear of touch. One of the figures that most of all emphasizes this fear of touch is that only 3%. of the refugees who came here in 2015 were considered to be job-ready. It can't be right that 97%. have lost their ability to work on their way to Denmark. They all come from communities where you are used to supporting yourself. That is why we are changing the approach to integration. Together with the National Association of Municipalities and the social partners, we have concluded two agreements on integration, which make the integration effort much more employment-oriented, focusing on what we know works, namely that you get to a company. Everyone is now ready for work, and everyone must go to a company within one month of being granted asylum, and preferably earlier. And it seems to be working because when we took over government, for example, it was. 3% of the recipients of benefits who were ready for work. In December last year it was 51 per cent, and the figure has to be even higher. In fact, in terms of getting refugees out to work, we also see positive developments. The proportion of beneficiaries who were in internship or wage subsidies in December 2016 had increased from 15%. at 32%. Since June 2015. But it also needs to be higher. The government firmly believes that there must be financial incentives to get more people into work. This applies not least to Western immigrants and descendants, who are clearly over-represented in the cash aid system. Nearly nine out of ten married couples are not Western immigrants or descendants. The four bourgeois parties have already implemented a cash aid ceiling, the 225-hour rule and, indeed, the integration benefit. These are all rules that make further demands, but they are requirements that are necessary for us to get more people into the labour market. Newcomers are now receiving significantly lower benefits than under the previous government. This makes it less attractive to seek asylum in Denmark and yes, economic benefits matter to which country you seek asylum in. At the same time, the lower performance strengthens the motivation to work and to support itself. And no, it's not because I don't understand people on the run, but we have to be able to keep up, and even if you're a fugitive, you can contribute to society and support yourself. It is therefore no secret that the government is looking at how we can further tighten up the use of profit principles in order to obtain the right to public benefits. Because it is only fair to make a contribution to Danish society as soon as possible when you are here. Then it is all about being part of that society and meeting with the need to conform to the values and standards that are crucial for us Danes. Not least that is why we also need to take a more targeted fight with parallel societies. We do not accept that there are environments and groups in Denmark where people live by standards and values that are incompatible with Danish freedoms and democracy. As part of our efforts against parallel societies, we also presented two action plans last October, one on the prevention of extremism and radicalisation and one on negative social control and honour-related conflicts. We will work to counteract the fact that in Denmark there are people living in isolation from the surrounding community in vulnerable residential areas. One of the tools we know that works to counter ghettos is the so-called ghetto list. The aim of the Ghetto list is to identify residential areas with particular challenges such as housing composition, unemployment and crime. When an area is on the list, you will also have the opportunity to seek some funds from a pool. This year there are 25 areas on the ghetto list like last year. It remains the lowest number of areas we have seen since we started drawing up a ghetto list. Of course, we cannot rewind time and correct the sins of the past, but it is one of the government's main priorities to counteract the emergence of areas of habitation such as the one we see in Brøndby Strand, because it challenges us. It challenges the cohesion force in Denmark, which is why it is absolutely crucial for us that this is something we stand together on, and we are also willing to take new steps.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207143406	Thank you, Minister. We are starting the debate, and first it is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207143420	Thank you for that, President. When we have raised this debate on the part of the Danish People's Party, it is because we are carried by a heartfelt and sincere desire to stick together in the country. When we regularly come up with new proposals and requests for foreign policy, it is not rare for our political counterparts and opponents to claim that we want to tighten immigration policy solely to tighten up. It is also often claimed, when the Danish People's Party proposes, that it may be anything from morning song, more history teaching in primary school or less religious speciality in school, that then it is narrow-minded nationalism or hetz against selected population groups. But that's nonsense. Our policy is not an expression of a desire to tighten just to tighten. Nor is our policy an expression of a desire to hetze against anyone, rather the opposite. On the other hand, we try to say things plainly without being burdened with political correctness... we call it cultural self-defense. The policy of the Danish People's Party is supported by an overriding desire to hold the country together now and in the future. It is a wish that the Danes do not forget that they are part of a historical background and that our culture, our Danish values and our common cultural institutions are not something that will automatically remain there. We must fight for that and work for it. It is like caring for plants; they require nourishment and maintenance if they are to survive and be passed on to new generations. Therefore, it is also important that newcomers and their descendants join the cultural community and work to preserve these national pillars rather than to oppose them. When we see that far too many immigrants and descendants do not take Danishism into account, and when we can see that the indigenous population, the Danes, comes into minority in certain areas, then of course we will have to react. In order to ensure the cohesion of society, we must continue valuable knowledge of the past, also so newcomers and their descendants cannot fail to gain a much better understanding of the country in which they now live; it benefits us all. But we need to get the number down even further. The most important thing is to get more control over the influx of asylum, the number of families together, but also the total immigration to Denmark has to be reduced if we are to preserve Denmark Danish and we must. Effective immigration policy is immensely important. The immigration that we know involves greater economic and cultural challenges must be managed. This is the best thing for the Danes, for new generations, and it is in fact also the best thing for the immigrants who have once come to the country. The rules on asylum and family reunification are, as I said, important instruments of foreign policy, because it was and in part is also through these rules that the problem of immigration in the past took place. The more people want to live in Denmark and the further away they come from, the harder integration becomes and there is nothing strange about that. The goal is, of course, that those who are here and those who stay here will eventually become Danish; that they slip into society and embrace the mentality, values and culture. This will mean that a number of cultural elements and standards from the home countries of parents and grandparents will have to give way to the new country. But it is impossible to assimilate immigrants and descendants if they live in a place where the Danes are in a minority. Denmark is not a large country, and a multicultural society where everyone takes care of themselves in their small local environments benefits no one. But that is the case in several places in the kingdom, and that is because the Danes are in a minority in several places. We cannot find a common position if developments continue like this, we risk losing ourselves. We do not say in the Danish People's Party that everyone must be completely the same, but differences must be possible within certain limits, a framework. This framework is defined by the national identity, our common past, which has created today's society of freedoms, popular rule and equality between the sexes, welfare, care, cultural institutions, unity and popular community. It's not gonna come out of nowhere. This framework around society and its values is being pressured when parallel societies take over in certain areas. In parallel societies, Danish culture has simply been replaced by something else, and that is what we have to do about. That is why the Danish People's Party has raised this debate. We want the Folketing and the government to publicly announce, clearly and clearly, that it is a wrong development when Danes come into minorities in their own country and that there is a need for more tightening of asylum and immigration policy. Against this background (on behalf of DF, V, LA and KF) I should like to make the following points: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes with concern that there are currently areas in Denmark where the proportion of immigrants and descendants from non-western countries is above 50%. It is the Danish Parliament's view that Danes should not be in minorities in residential areas in Denmark. The Government and the Folketing have implemented a number of austerity measures which have significantly reduced the influx of asylum and which counteract parallel societies. Parliament calls on the government to continue working on a political objective to reduce the number of asylum seekers and the number of family members coming to Denmark. • V 38).
ParlaMint-DK_20170207143916	The proposal is now part of the further negotiations. We have a few brief comments to make. First, sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207143924	I agree with the rapporteur that it is worrying that there are areas in Denmark where immigrants and descendants of immigrants are now in the majority. I agree with that. But then the rapporteur also says that this means that the Danes have come into the minority. Is it to be understood that they plus 50%? by immigrants and descendants living in Brøndby Strand, are all not Danes?
ParlaMint-DK_20170207143953	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207143954	You can't say that. Because you can easily meet people in Brøndby Strand, who have a different background than the typical Danish background and whom I would meet and perceive as being Danes because they have simply adapted to Danish society and have slipped into society. And there will be no contradiction between the majority population and them. That is why you will, of course, be able to meet people among the 50% that you will perceive as Danes, and which I myself will also see as Danes. However, when we take a debate which will also have to be a general debate, we also have to look at the statistics that are in the area and relate to them. And they say clearly, and we in the Danish People's Party think this is alarming, that there can be areas where statistics say that there are Danes in the minority if you look at it in general. And we think that's a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207144045	Sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207144046	I am very pleased that the Danish People's Party believes that some of the immigrants who come here, perhaps especially some of the descendants of some of the immigrants, are now to be regarded as Danes. Otherwise, Mrs. Yildiz Akdogan and Mr. Naser Khader is not to be regarded as Danes, and that would be completely in the fence, isn't it? So I think it is incredibly positive to get a commitment from the Danish People's Party. Against this background, I would urge the Danish People's Party to amend the proposal for adoption that you have put forward, which shows precisely that there are areas in Denmark where the Danes are in a minority. What are these areas? If we specifically talk zip numbers such as... 2660, it is certainly not the case that the Danes are in a minority in Brøndby Strand, not at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207144125	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207144127	So, I consider it quite obvious that you can of course meet people who have a different origin from ethnic Danish, if you want to use the term which may well be as Danish as anyone else. I have always had that view, by the way. But it does not change the fact that there is a difference between looking at the individual level and then more generally and overall. And there we get in here sometimes have to fly up into the helicopter and have the long perspective on. I therefore believe that it is necessary to consider that if you look at the statistics, you can see that there are areas in Denmark where Danes have come into the minority. It means what can also be seen in those areas that Danish culture is becoming more and more pressured. There are simply some with Danish backgrounds who no longer feel that they are so welcome in their country. And that's something you have to take very seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207144215	Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207144219	In the proposal for adoption which I heard read out, I do not really think I could hear so many proposals for solutions to the problem that Mr. Martin Henriksen evidently sees when in a residential area there are more than 50%. of the residents, who are of non-Western origin. I think we should focus on what conditions the municipalities have. For a long time the municipalities have had the opportunity to point out people in need of accommodation for 25 per cent. of housing in the general sector, and this has of course led to some general housing associations where there is a high level of people who have been assigned housing. Then there are some specific areas where some of them have a non-western background. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur is in favour of extending the right of authorizing to private rentals, because then the municipality will be able to spread more easily, what can be said, the people with social problems, among whom there is also a part of foreign origin.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207144319	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207144320	We do not have any plans on the part of the Danish People's Party, and I would like to challenge the view that, from the outset, these are social problems. This is something that the Danish People's Party social rapporteur deals with. I would also like to challenge the view that we have not put forward any solutions in the proposal, because we say this in the last paragraph of the proposal for adoption, and now I read it again: the Danish Parliament calls on the government to continue working on a political objective to reduce the number of asylum seekers and the number of family members who come to Denmark. That is the solution in the long term; we simply do not get out of it. The reason why we are facing the problems we are facing now is that there has been too much immigration and influx to Denmark, primarily from countries which are culturally and mentally far away from Danish mentality and from Danish culture and from Western culture, and this is very much from Muslim countries. So it's caused the problem. If we want to solve the problem, we must limit that part of immigration as much as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207144428	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207144430	It is incredible that we should have such a debate because the rapporteur sees it as a cultural problem. Then you have to count out how many Christmas trees there are in Brøndby Strand, just like to assess whether this is a problem or not. I think it's fucked up. I understand that we can focus on this and say: there are some social problems here, and we need to do something about them. That's why it's good to have overall plans that you have in Brøndby Strand. Then I would like to point out that Brøndby Strand is not on the list of particularly vulnerable residential areas. But there is something else: a safety investigation has just been carried out out out there which shows that it is not an insecure area. I do not understand why the rapporteur is pointing it so hard just because it has reached 50.1%.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207144507	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207144509	I don't think Enhedslisten should talk Christmas trees down. They create a good atmosphere everywhere when they get there, so you shouldn't sneak up on that. I mean, this is not a question about whether there is security in a particular area or whether people in a particular area are complying with the law. It is, of course, important that they do so, it is clear. Of course it's important. It is therefore an essential condition for a good integration into Danish society that the country's legislation be complied with. But the most important thing is that the Danish People's Party sees that one is prepared to embrace the culture, to embrace the standards and to embrace the traditions. If you are not and you live in an area where, for example, there are many people with a non-western background who are not willing to embrace Danish culture, then we see that the problems arise.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207144551	Thank you, sir. Martin Henriksen. There are no more brief comments. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207144608	I'm a member of the Social Democratic small electoral association in Brøndby Strand. We're about 120 members. The chairman is Ludvig. He's an old military man, married to a woman from Africa. And the vice president's name is Beate, she's a priest. Then there is the janitor Lars, the volunteer soccer coach Erling and Michael, who is chairman of the housing association, and Jean from the high-rise, who has an association called "Poter and Club for residents with livestock." Then there is Jørgen from the villas who just joined the party; and then there is the carpenter's turn Arno, who is a third generation social democrat in Brøndby Strand, from the time when the area was a small fishing village along Køge Bay and not one of the housing blocks had been built yet. At that time the immigrants were Copenhageners who came to the beach during the summer months. The Chairman of the Young Social Democrats Harun Muharemovic, the child of refugees from Bosnia who came to Brøndby Strand in the 1990s, also attends board meetings. Around the table is also Mahmut, who came here in the late 1960s. He was then president of the Association of Turkish Foreign Workers in Denmark. Youssef, a Palestinian refugee from Lebanon, also participates here. Today he's a radiographer at Glostrup Hospital. Next door is Syed. In Pakistan he was a politically active high school student and, as a young man, was tortured by the military dictatorship. Today he sits in Brøndby municipal council and is one of my best contacts to understand how we avoid radicalisation and connection to Hizb ut-Tahrir, which unfortunately fills something in Brøndby Strand. Let me say one thing very clearly: all these people are excellent citizens who love living in Brøndby Strand; they are people who take responsibility for their communities; they are Danes who look after each other, who look after Denmark and who love living in Brøndby Strand. They're Danes. So the Danes are not in a minority in Brøndby Strand. However, the proportion of citizens of Brøndby Strand with family roots in Denmark is in minority, and it is relevant to discuss. There are 80 different nationalities in Brøndby Strand. There is a sharp increase in the proportion of young people who make up Danish and mathematics from the local school, which by CEPOS has been proclaimed as one of the few schools in Denmark, which makes it right, very good to lift the pupils. There is a sharp increase in the proportion of young people receiving youth education. The area is not When the former mayor, Ib Terp, unfortunately died a few months ago, the church in Brøndby Strand was filled with people from all corners of the world. There were red tabs up at the altar. The Muslims sang the Christian songs. The mayor of the left from Glostrup and the Conservative mayor from Vallensbæk sang with me when I see a red flag slamming when the coffin was carried out. Everyone met with respect. This is how I know Brøndby Strand, and this is how I know the West. I would therefore be very sorry if today's parliamentary debate would exhaust and abuse a small piece of Denmark for christiansborg party political purposes. But let me at the same time say very clearly and be very honest: Brøndby Strand is also the story of the total failure of housing policy in the 1980s and 1990s, immigration policy and integration policy, i.e. decisions taken here at Christiansborg. A few days ago I received a message from a woman in Brøndby Strand, whose father had been attacked by some young roots with immigrant background down at the station. She misses the local police and wonders what the young folks are doing. They're probably sitting up in the apartments watching television from abroad. We know that more young people have been recruited to Syria from an apartment in Brøndby Strand. The police intelligence service, with whom I was at a meeting a short time ago, told about how it was going on. The local football club was in the fall a few years ago due to the connection with Hizb ut-Tahir. At the same time, there is an over-representation of both crime and unemployment in the region. So the district has its problems too... don't sweep it under the carpet. However, this is not because the municipal council has failed, but because the Folketing has failed, when so many Turkish, Kurdish and Pakistani foreign workers were given the keys to the large apartments that could not be rented out in the 1970s, when the interest rates increased dramatically when Danish Refugee Aid continued to lend money to the Bosnian families who wanted to move to Brøndby Strand. All these decisions were taken not by the municipal council but against the will of the municipal council. Brøndby's then mayor, Kjeld Rasmussen, my own party colleague, tried to cry out to the Danish Parliament, but was met with contempt and ridicule, as did Brøndby's MP, Per Kaalund. Considering all this, the Folketing owes Brøndby Municipality an apology to a huge, huge apology. However, I am well aware that the Danish People's Party has called for this question to discuss the general population development and not just the local conditions in Brøndby Strand. But as elected in the Brøndbykredit, I feel responsible for starting my speech there and speaking a little locally, although of course I could just as well have started in 5240, Odense Northeast, or 8220, Brabrand. Then I have a proposal for adoption. Unfortunately, we in the Social Democratic Party have not been able to endorse the proposal for adoption which was read out by the Danish People's Party precisely because it was insinuated there that the majority of the citizens of Brøndby Strand were not Danes. So, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, let me read out another proposal for adoption, which reminds me a bit of something about it: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes with concern that today there are areas in Denmark where the proportion of immigrants and descendants from non-western countries is over 50%. It is the view of the Danish Parliament that integration works best when the Danish culture is the bearer of all residential areas in Denmark. In this context, there remains a need to focus on democratic child rearing, gender equality and equality between people. The Folketing has adopted a number of restrictions which have significantly reduced the influx of asylum and which counteract parallel societies. Parliament calls on the government to strengthen the integration work and ensure a low number of both asylum seekers and family members coming to Denmark. • V 39).
ParlaMint-DK_20170207145201	This proposal for adoption is also now included in the further negotiations. I have a number of brief comments to make. First, it's sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207145209	Thank you. Now Mr. Mattias Tesfaye says the Folketing owes Brøndby Strand an apology. It is now primarily the Social Democracy and the Radical Left here at Christiansborg who owes an apology to Brøndby Strand, because I agree with the rapporteur in this respect. And I think it would have dressed the rapporteur if he had started by apologizing to Brøndby Strand on behalf of his party, which has been contributing for years to the development that we see in Brøndby Strand. Then you cannot hide behind the fact that there have been a few mayors who have counteracted that development. The responsibility rests centerly on Mr. Mattias Tesfaye and his comrades in Social Democracy. I can feel that, sir. Mattias Tesfaye is trying to make such a kind of cozy multiculture. That's the picture he's trying to draw. But, sir. Mattias Tesfaye: There are tremendous problems in Brøndby Strand, and what does Mr. Mattias Tesfaye intends to do something concrete about them? Hizb ut-Tahrir mentioned Mr. Mattias Tesfaye himself. Is Mr. Mattias Tesfaye prepared to vote in favour of a proposal to ban Hizb ut-Tahrir?
ParlaMint-DK_20170207145315	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207145317	I can tell you that only yesterday I was in a self-elected internship in a daycare institution in Brøndby, and believe me, I can see the problems. I can see what problems they have when children arrive late in day care when they cannot speak Danish when they come from home, where parents do not attend parent meetings. I can see that easily. I don't want to draw a picture that there's just a well-functioning multiculture in Brøndby Strand. I can see the problems easily. I can also tell the Danish People's Party, sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, who I know live just around the corner in the neighbouring municipality, that the Social Democracy in Brøndby is fully aware of how to contain Hizb ut-Tahir in the municipality, and does an excellent job of ensuring that Hizb ut-Tahir's organization does not break roots in Brøndby Strand. It is, moreover, a work that is being done in close cooperation with a number of immigrant associations who know very well what will happen if Islamic fundamentalism starts to take root in local society.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207145419	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207145421	We're still missing the apology from sir. Mattias Tesfaye, but he can use his second round to apologize on behalf of his party. I didn't get an answer either. Mattias Tesfaye will vote for a ban on Hizb ut-Tahrir. I assume the Social Democrats do not want that. I'd like to ask Mr. Mattias Tesfaye: Now that you are doing so much about this problem of Islamic extremism in Brøndby, what do you do about the fact that you have a daycare centre, the Sunbeam, in Brøndby Strand, which is led by an extremist imam, Muhammad Ataseven? The municipality of Brøndby has not done anything to counter that either. There are so many specific problems. Speak concrete solutions, sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207145500	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207145503	Now maybe it's gonna be a little local, but I know that mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth is also involved in the case of the day institution Sunbeam. I can see that in the local newspaper. And thus the Danish People's Party may Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth also knows that the municipality is fully aware of the need to speak Danish in all day institutions. About Hizb ut-Tahir: My experience is that the best thing you can do to contain that organisation is to make sure that they are not able to recruit new young people for their work.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207145541	Thank you. Then it's mr. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207145545	I usually have respect for the rapporteur, but I think it is an untrustworthy description of Brøndby. The rapporteur mentions a lot of names of people with Arabic and other backgrounds, among others. Youssef Khalil, who once sat on the City Council of Social Democracy in Brøndby, and who is a well-known anti-Semite, the Holocaust denier, and who on Fati El-Abed's facebook page at one time wrote: It crawls with sick Zionists as usual on your Facebook, dear Fathi. Their racist apartheid and rogue state are about to end, at the dump of history, along with all Zionists all over the world. When I was at a debate in the Culture House in Brøndby a few years ago, he was present. He got up and gilded the young people up and said among other things. Why are you coming to Brøndby? We don't want you here. You're not welcome. You're a traitor. And then he went out to the assembly and said, Do you not agree with me that he is a traitor? I cannot believe that the rapporteur praises such a person.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207145704	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207145706	First of all, it is not the view of the Social Democratic Party that Mr. Naser Khader is a traitor, but it's a point of view that I occasionally meet in Brøndby Strand, and it's a point of view that I spend some time discussing. I have never heard Youssef say it in concrete terms, but if that is his position, I will take it up with him, and exactly the quote you make, you must finally send to me because it belongs nowhere, just as it does not belong anywhere to deny the holocaust. I would just like to make a few reservations about that before I accuse anyone of it. Then I owe you, sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth an answer to that with the Western mayors. For my part, I would like to say: yes, I apologise to all the mayors who for years have been shouting about, for example. the rules for family reunification, so that there was no tightening up. I think not only myself, but that the whole parliament owes an apology for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207145805	Sir. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207145807	If the rapporteur and others want to read a little about my experiences from Brøndby, I actually wrote an open letter to the former chairman of the Social Democratic Party, Helle Thorning-Rasmussen, and I did so in BT on 28 February 2013. There are quotes from Youssef and a description of what I experienced in Brøndby, where, when we were finished, after he guided the young people up, we were not stoned out of Brøndby, but bottles were thrown on our PET car and police car.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207145847	For the record: that was probably Mrs Helle Thorning- Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207145848	In fact, I would very much like to see that, and I would also like to say that it would not surprise me if Mr. Naser Khader has been chased out of Brøndby Strand because I know that there are people who consider Mr. Naser Khader for being a traitor. And I know that because I've spent a lot of hours discussing with them what a traitor is and who really betrays the values on which this society is based. So there should be no doubt about that. I will by no means sweep under the carpet that such attitudes are also in Brøndby Strand. It is just important for me to stress that Brøndby Strand is a complex area in which the Danes are in the majority and which is an area on the way forward. This is not an area that is returning despite all the problems of the region.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207145926	Sir. Mikkel Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207145929	Like the two previous authors, I was somewhat puzzled when I heard the rapporteur's praise of the situation in Brøndby Strand. I myself live close to Brøndby Strand on the other side of the municipality border, to the east of the municipality of Hvidovre, and therefore know the area well. But it sounded as if the rapporteur thinks that Brøndby Strand is a multicultural paradise in which everyone lives peacefully and cosy side by side. Does the rapporteur and therefore the Social Democrats not recognise that the number, that is to say, how many people with foreign origins have clumped together in a particular residential area, matters?
ParlaMint-DK_20170207150036	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207150038	To begin with, I would like to say: yes, I think that the situation in BSI, Brøndby Strands Sports Club is now well enough to be some time ago. I myself have been involved in organising civil meetings and have discussed with the municipality and much more about how to do so, to ensure that no radicalised people take over any associations, and to ensure that the municipality does not back anything that can be perceived as contrary to ordinary Danish culture. Then I would say: yes, of course the Social Democratic Party believes that the number matters, it is also clear from our proposal for adoption that we want a strict immigration policy. Finally, if anyone thinks that I have portrayed Brøndby Strand as a multicultural paradise, I would urge them, after the debate, to go in and hear or read what I have said, because that is by no means what I am saying. I just note that the glass is half full, so it means that more people are getting an education; more people are getting a youth education; there are security measures that show that it is going in the right direction. It is still an area that has a lot of problems, but I choose to interpret it positively and say that we are heading in the right direction. We're not going in the wrong direction in Brøndby Strand.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207150145	Sir. Mikkel Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207150146	Isolatedly, it's good that people get an education and a job. The Minister also said a lot about this in his speech, but there was little about the fact that one thing is that you have an education and a job, another is what standards and values you have inside your head or in your heart or where you put them. It doesn't help much to go to work if you are an Islamist in your spare time down at Brøndby Strands Sports Club or at the school board or on the parent board in kindergarten. So if it is the case that one spends one's leisure time introducing Islamism through the democratic systems we have built up in our society, the number matters. And what will the Social Democrats do about it? If developments continue, you can also take over the school board in Brøndby Strand, and in the longer term you can take over the majority of the municipal council.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207150232	Then it is the rapporteur who has to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207150235	I understand the question as follows: what does the Social Democracy intend to do about the concentration of foreigners in certain residential areas of Denmark? Paragraph 1: We are in favour of a foreign policy which ensures that a few residence permits are issued. And that is why we are pleased that the number of asylum seekers has fallen, because that also means that the number of family reunifications is decreasing. And paragraph 2: We believe that the current government is doing too little to ensure integration, and we will maintain the distribution of refugees that is taking place. Among other things: On the basis of our initiative, the key to the distribution of newly arrived refugees is that they are spread out to municipalities such as the United Kingdom. Gentofte, who has received more.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207150321	Thank you. The next person who, according to my list, has asked for a brief comment is Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207150325	Thank you. I have to sadden any viewers of the debate that I simply cannot get as upset as Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, it was quite impressive that a cadeau for it. On the contrary, I should like to congratulate the rapporteur. I think it was an incredibly passionate speech that the rapporteur started by making. I am certainly not aware of the truth value of it, because unfortunately I rarely go to Brøndby Strand, just as I know that the rapporteur rarely, no, rarely, but perhaps less often frequents some of the heavily burdened residential areas that lie further north in the same area. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur thinks it was a problem that the previous government, with the rapporteur's party, the SF and the Radicals, relaxed the legislation on foreigners 40 times while the government was in power.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207150411	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207150412	Now foreign policy was both relaxed and tightened, while Mrs Helle Thorning-Schmidt was Prime Minister. One of the last things she did was to introduce, for example. a temporary residence permit of only one year for a part of those who came from Syria. So it was a tightening up. By the way, I think that the figure which the Left is touring with 40 can understand that it has now become a little lower in the election campaign, and then it was also discussed whether it was exactly the right figure that was presented.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207150442	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207150444	After all, I am very fond of both the whims of the Socialist rapporteur and the good way of disarming a critical issue, but then we meet halfway. So let us say that it was a handful, perhaps a dozen, significant easing of foreign policy? The rapporteur nods and I assume the premise for the question has been accepted. Does the rapporteur think that this was unwise in the unbearable light of today and hindsight?
ParlaMint-DK_20170207150507	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207150508	Well, I have to ask the rapporteur of the Left to be a little more specific. I can give you an example. I think, for example, that too many citizenships were given in the last period. I think so. I think there were too many who were granted exemption from Danish requirements, from employment requirements, from the requirement to take the citizenship test, which was then called the citizenship test. I thought that was a complete hole in the head. I could easily come up with other examples of relaxations that I am opposed to, but I would just like to stress that there was also foreign policy, a lot of foreign policy, under Mrs Helle Thorning-Schmidt, which I thought was excellent.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207150539	Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207150541	Thank you to the rapporteur for bringing some knowledge of Brøndby Strand into the debate. I would like to hear the rapporteur's assessment of the overall plan that has been in force for Brøndby Strand from 2012 to 2016. What is the main progress that has been made and what is being taken forward now that the overall plan, as I understand it, is officially over? Some initiatives must be set in motion and there is good reason to continue with them, and some of them may need to be supported, or perhaps it could run on its own. Is it something that, like, has had a significant impact on Brøndby Strand that you have had a four-year overall plan?
ParlaMint-DK_20170207150622	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207150623	Thank you for the question. In fact, the overall plan that has been in Brøndby Strand is a very good example of all the good and all the bad, I think, by social policy and integration policy in Denmark. There are, for example: was a small project that has been about securing young people from Brøndby Strand, i.e. from the parks, leisure jobs in the local business, and it has gone excellent as long as there has been a volunteer coordinator employed to help young people get down to McDonald's and down to a paint shop down in Brøndby Strand's center and something like that, but I can see what's going to happen when she stops, and that's that it's all bursting to the ground. The challenge is to have all these good initiatives anchored in the local community, and it is indeed a very accurate picture of what has been the challenges of social and integration policy over the past 30-40 years, namely that it cannot be borne by well-meaning project makers with extraordinary resources in their backs. It also needs to be anchored in the community of which they are a part, and it is now harder than you might think.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207150720	Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207150722	In his speech, the rapporteur mentioned that the government is doing too little in terms of integration. Now we have some new opportunities in that new refugees have been placed throughout Denmark and also in some of the outermost regions which otherwise have a declining population, and here the new refugees can help to ensure that there is no stagnant population. Does the rapporteur have any suggestions as to what we should do to increase integration, so that the people who are located around the country may have a better incentive to stay in those areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20170207150753	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207150754	When I am a little critical of the government's integration efforts, it is because I believe that Mrs Inger Løjberg is more the Minister for Foreign Affairs than she is the Minister for Integration. There have been more actions that have been about tightening up the law on foreigners than measures that have been about improving integration, but it may well be that it is coming now. I believe that the most important thing for integration is employment. It's not the only thing, but it's the most important thing. And I actually very much agree with what the government is saying, namely that the employment rate is too low and that it should be possible to raise it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207150831	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments, so we will move on to the next rapporteur, Mr President. Jakob Engel-Schmidt, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207150848	Thank you for that, President. This is an important question we are discussing today, and it is because challenges and problems arise, both economically, socially and culturally, when ghettos are created, tensions are created and residential areas are changed, both in terms of appearance and culture, when there is a high concentration of people of ethnic non-Danish origin. And I believe that we should be very realistic and very honest about the issue. Brøndby Strand, as the previous rapporteur described, is a good example, and that is because Brøndby Strand is located in one of the municipalities that, through our recent history, has received an incredible number of refugees and immigrants and family members, and therefore it is also an example of how other areas can develop if integration efforts are not properly handled. For the integration of non-western immigrants becomes, to say the least, difficult when population groups cling together and do not interact with the rest of the surrounding society. Then it will not be integration, then it will be such a form of presence outside the established society, and we do not want that. For the Left, there are two answers to the challenges. We need to control the influx of asylum seekers, and we have to say that we have got it. The asylum figures we are seeing now are at the lowest level for five years, if I am not mistaken, and I am not. At the same time, we must ensure that the people who are already here enter the labour market, where they meet ordinary Danes, contribute to society and form an entirely normal part of our cultural life. So what happens when it fails? What is happening is that we are achieving a situation in which parallel societies arise. This means that young women are forced to dress in a special way; they must not have Danish boyfriends; they must not see the playmates they want; in some cases the boys must defend the honor of the family and ensure that the young girls do not see the Danish boyfriends mentioned above; social control rules; education fails; primary school teachers are pressed; social institutions break down; crime, gang formation, violence and general destruction are the conclusion. It sounds sad, and fortunately that is not the case, particularly in many places. But the studies we have from the SFI show that one in four ethnic non-Danish boy or girl is subject to massive social control. So this is a problem we have to deal with. That is why I am also pleased that the Danish People's Party has chosen to call this question debate, and my good colleague Mr. Martin Henriksen has already read out our joint proposal for adoption. But let me go further and explain some of the measures and austerity that the government has already taken and implemented. I can inform you, sir. Mattias Tesfaye, whom I had a little tee-a-tee with purely verbally earlier, said that the government has carried out a total of 40 tightenings since 2015, and we are also proud of them. They've had a good effect. Today we have the lowest influx of asylum in five years. I said that before, but I feel a need to repeat that. Where 21,000 asylum seekers arrived in the country in 2015, after the government tightened up one third of it in 2016. And you can ask yourself why. There are, of course, some external factors that affect the flow, but my impression is that our policy has greatly helped to ensure that Denmark has no longer become a human trafficking worthy attraction. Why is that so relevant in this context? It is because the lower influx of asylum seekers gives us a better chance of integrating the people we have already taken in, and, incidentally, spending more money on helping those who are left in the neighbourhood who cannot afford to pay a human smuggler. This gives us better opportunities to get these people into the labour market, where they can meet the Danes and the Danish culture, and we need that. Because we actually have a very big problem. Unfortunately, nine out of ten married couples on cash benefits at home are people with a non-Danish background. And it is a huge problem when, as a person with a spouse who is on cash benefits, you are even on cash benefits and live in an area where cultural diversity is very small, unfortunately, and in this way you do not get into the rest of society. Before the left took over the government offices, only 3%. provision of services by the recipients who came to Denmark 3 per cent. In fact, they were ready to enter the labour market. That number is now 51 per cent. We've turned the boat around. If you come to Denmark as a refugee or an immigrant, you are pr. definition ready to take a job and contribute to society unless there is a very good reason why you cannot.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207151400	Thank you. Time's up. Jakob Engel-Schmidt Well, I thought I'd gotten off to a good start up here, but I'm gonna have to take the consequences. ) It is in time that it must be observed. Thank you so much for the time being. There are a few brief comments which may give rise to further discussion. First, it's sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207151419	I kind of think, sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt was able to explain very well the challenges we have, but I have to say that I do not think that Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt pointed out a single concrete new example of where Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt believes action should be taken. I am also a little disappointed that Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt did not mention the word'returns' at all, because if there is anything that can seriously change the composition of a population in an area, it is precisely to encourage some of those who live in the area which is not integrated and who have no desire to be, rather than to go home. So I'm actually gonna want to hear sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt on why repatriations were not part of Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt's rapporteur speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207151511	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207151512	There is a very short answer to that. I ran out of time, and it's on page 3. I simply do not know how this can be done, because I usually tend to be both punctual, precise and quite effective when I stand up here, but my thoughts ran away and I abused the speaking time to go deeper into some of the issues than I had planned. However, the rapporteur is welcome to consider my speech afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207151531	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207151532	I would also like to do so, because I think it is very important to talk about the repatriation of some of these people, because what is characteristic of areas of high concentration of foreigners is that the fact that there is such a high concentration discourages integration. Therefore, the way to thin out this problem is precisely by encouraging some of these people to go home. So I'd like to ask Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt about something: How are we going to get our local politicians to make a greater effort to get people to accept the return service?
ParlaMint-DK_20170207151613	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207151614	It is a complicated issue, but I think that the process is beginning so little and we must help push it forward. It is no more than three days ago that there was a major article in one of the daily newspapers, I think it was BT, but I have to be corrected if I am mistaken, who said that there are more and more asylum seekers going home when it was noticed that the conditions were not as they had been promised by the people who had helped you up here. Now that I have the opportunity to say something more, I would also like to say that there is quite a lot more on the political menu when it comes to the policy of the Left: parallel societies, the motivation to enter the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207151654	It must be another good time, because now time has passed. Now it's sir. Christian Langballe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207151655	I would therefore like to give the rapporteur an opportunity to continue the flow of speech from up there, which I think is very noble. Of course, we agree on this proposal for adoption, and we agree on many things, but I would like to arrest one thing not really to bother the government or the Left, and it is the simple fact that I simply think that an automatic approach has been put in place in relation to the immigration that comes to Denmark, namely that first you come to Denmark; then you have to pine death integrated through an integration process for many years; then comes the time when you can apply for citizenship; and then you automatically become a citizen. I think it is simply time to break with the idea that the starting point for the people who come to this country is, of course, that they should go home to their own country and help build it up, and that they should not be included in such an automatism as I think is completely misplaced.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207151755	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207151756	I am, in fact, pleased with the question, because I agree with Mr McMillan-Scott. Christian Langballe in. Well, when there is peace in the country from which you have fled, then you have to go home. I am a local politician up in Lyngby-Tårbæk, and for many years we have followed the classical integration plan, where we have first welcomed people and spent 3-4 years learning them Danish, and then we have tried to find a job for them. It has not been a success. The method has been reversed today: When you arrive, you are as a starting point ready to get a job, ready to contribute and ready to be a part of society. This is already happening from day one unless there are serious reasons for the opposite. The interesting thing is that when you look at the people who come to the country to work it is a broad spectrum, for example. Highly qualified labour, engineers, PhD students, researchers and other professionals, there are not many of the people who choose to apply for Danish citizenship. They travel on in their expat life. And is it the case that one has lived in Denmark for incredibly many years and meets the requirements for Danish citizenship, and one seeks and gets it, well then that's the way it is. But as a starting point, I agree with Mr. Christian Langballe in that refugees who come to Denmark are here for a period of time, and when there is peace in their country, they must return.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207151858	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207151859	That is where, after all, I am going to arrest some things, because I simply do not believe in the integration projects that have gone through time. And they have also proved to have failed because one never takes a position on the cultural, historical and traditional conditions that people bring with them and that some of these people will never be integrated. I do not think that is the point, and that is the point. People who come here are not supposed to be integrated into Danish society and then become citizens. Of course, these people are supposed to be sent back to their own country.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207151942	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207151943	There are examples of good integration, and unfortunately there are also many examples of failed integration. I agree with Mr. Christian Langballe in. I also agree with Mr. Christian Langballe in Denmark even though he hasn't said it, but I know he would say it if he had a question about that one of the biggest challenges in Denmark and the Danish labour market and for Danish culture is a massive immigration from non-western countries. It is not because, as a skilled cancer doctor from Lebanon, one cannot come to Denmark and have a life. However, we have chosen to make it easier to enter the country if you come from the Nordic countries, from the European Union or some of the other countries with which we have agreements. Culture, of course, means something. But culture is particularly important in those cases where it is more important than the desire one has to become part of Danish society. And that's what we have to assess people on.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207152026	Then it's mr. Mikkel Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207152028	I would also like to hear something about how the Left thinks we should prevent more of these parallel societies coming, where there is a very large cluster of people with other ethnic origins. There is, of course, a list of various problem areas, the so-called ghetto list. It is Brøndby Strand not on, but yet there is a majority of people with ethnic backgrounds other than Danish. And as I also mentioned to the previous rapporteur on the platform, Mr. Mattias Tesfaye, it is a problem if there are many people with a very foreign cultural background who can use their numbers to vote to replace the culture, for example, as I mentioned in Brøndby Strand Sports Club, where you can no longer eat sausages because it is contrary to Islamisation. Does the Left not recognise that one can be a good Islamist and a good taxpayer at the same time? You don't become a Dane by having a job or an education. You can have a good education and be an Islamist. So what will the Left do to avoid these accumulations of people living together trying to introduce alien cultural features through the back door?
ParlaMint-DK_20170207152144	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207152145	Yes, I recognize that you can both be an extremist and pay tax. After all, to be an extremist, I prefer paying taxes, even if I do not prefer some of them. At the time the rockers ran Jægersborggade here in Copenhagen, they chose to go together, the merchants, the residents, the municipality, all who had an interest in the area to make sure that they were thrown out. Similarly, one combats religious extremism. You make sure you mobilise civil society, the police, the people who are in the clubs around us and make sure that all the possibilities are closed so that this devastating virus that infects our young people and pulls them into crime and deep religious impotence does not cling. I know it myself from Lyngby, where we have some problems in a larger residential area. This is not something like what we are talking about here, but nevertheless we must take this fight against parallel societies seriously. It takes place on a street level, and it takes place by making sure that the young men make a proper offer when they leave the SFO. This is done by answering the next question as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207152251	Sir. Mikkel Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207152252	I look forward to hearing the answer to the next question, and it comes here. Now the rapporteur will have an opportunity to reply more precisely, and then I will try to be more precise. What will the Left do to avoid the formation of parallel societies? So, we have several measures, broadly politically based, to prevent people with massive social problems from gathering together... it can also be Danes with massive social problems... in certain residential areas. Does the Left have anything in the toolbox to prevent people with a very foreign background from also gathering together in certain residential areas, and in other words something to try to prevent a spread around society?
ParlaMint-DK_20170207152336	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207152337	I had hoped for a simple question, but as Mr. Mikkel Dencker spoke for longer and longer, the level of detail grew larger and larger. Well, as far as I remember, sir. Mikkel Dencker himself is also a local politician, or at least he has been, and then Mr. Mikkel Dencker knows. Mikkel Dencker also that one has an opportunity through local housing planning to ensure that the amount of people of other ethnic origin is not necessarily over-represented in a certain type of housing, i.e. that the housing composition does not have a particular character. I would urge all municipalities to do that, and if there is something legislative, that is contrary to it, we would like to look at it. At the same time, we have introduced the 225-hour rule, the ceiling on cash benefits and a number of other measures that motivate people to enter the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207152415	Thank you, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207152417	I have read this proposal for adoption, which the Blue Block is behind. These are tightening, tightening and tightening. After all, there are no solutions for integration. I heard that the rapporteur spoke of integration as something positive. There is no integration in this text of adoption. We are in a situation where there have been some new refugees who have been placed in the municipalities and where there is thus potential to make some good integration and to ensure that those people stay in the municipality to which they have been assigned. Now I could hear that the rapporteur had some experience from his municipality of residence with something that had not succeeded, so I would like to hear how the rapporteur sees that we can ensure better integration for the newest refugees who have arrived in Denmark and how we can ensure that they do not move immediately to Brøndby Strand or other residential areas because they have not been able to find employment where they have been placed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207152515	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207152516	Let us start by getting the facts straight: the last time the rapporteur's party was a government base, there were well over 25 000 refugees coming to Denmark. Now we're down to the lowest number in six years. At the same time, of the refugees who came to Denmark, well over 3 out of 100 were ready to go to work. Now we're up to a distribution called 51 out of 100. I think that in itself is a positive development. Now I'm gonna stop producing just the facts. I think it's important that we meet these people with expectations. We haven't been good at that before. We have always been good at wrapping them up, sending people on language courses, giving people the opportunity to sit at home and isolate themselves. So, any person who has ambitions to take care of himself and his life knows that idleness in this case is the root of all evil. That is why I think it is sensible to ensure that as long as there is strife in the countries where the refugees come from, we ensure that they can get out on the Danish labour market as soon as possible. If at first it is just 5 hours a week down in the local Netto or wooden cargo trade or in a company where you can use some skills and you can be a part of it, that is a good start. We need to do more of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207152618	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207152619	Now I understand from this proposal for adoption that we do not want to see more residential areas in which there are more than 50 per cent. non-Western residents. I would like to know whether the rapporteur will not support the possibility of amending the legislation, so that the authorising court not only applies to one in four general housing, but that the authorising court can also extend to private rentals, because then the municipality will have better opportunities to place refugees and immigrants instead of being assigned exclusively to residential areas where there are already many refugees and immigrants.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207152656	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207152657	I would like to translate it for the audience: the Enhedslisten's rapporteur asks the Left rapporteur whether the Left rapporteur is ready to abolish private property, and the Left rapporteur is not.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207152706	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left, sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt. There are no more brief comments. The next one is sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207152727	Sometimes it becomes apparent that the Left does not want integration, because then it would be more positive to give the municipalities a better chance of solving the tasks. It would be a huge plus if the municipalities had an authorising right for one in four vacant dwellings in the private rental building. That would be a plus. It has been a few years since some municipalities like to get to grips with it and try to say: can you not make a voluntary scheme with some private landlords? Can we not give them an economic incentive to say yes to that? They were even offered 30,000 kroner. in Aarhus, and they didn't say yes to it. If you look at what this is for a housing social task that is being carried out in the general sector, it is enormous. In other words, we should thank the general housing organizations in Denmark for the huge effort they are making. But there are also times when they have such a large task that it is difficult to lift. There are 25 areas in Denmark on the list of vulnerable residential areas, and Brøndby Strand is not one of these, but is on the list of areas where flexible rentals are used to change the housing composition so that people in work and older people over 60 years of age can more easily obtain a home and skip the waiting list. There are 80 different nationalities living in Brøndby Strand, and I see no problem with that as a starting point. I think it is incredibly good when local housing associations, local forces and the municipality come together to strengthen a residential area and work for it. This is among other things. What has happened to the overall plan tried by in Brøndby Strand, where I can listen today to the fact that not all the problems have been solved, and that there may be a concern about the extent to which some of the efforts that have been made can be continued when there is no financial support to follow up on an overall level. I think there is good reason to focus clearly on the upbuilding work that can be done through a comprehensive plan for a residential area. There is good reason why the conciliation circle concerning the Landsbygningsfonden funds, where both Dansk Folkeparti and Enhedslisten are involved, meet and relate to and evaluate how it looks with the waiting list for projects in the Landsbygningfonden. It is in the agreement that we should have met last November. I have contacted the former Minister for Housing to see if she would take the initiative for a meeting, but the former Minister for Housing would not, because they are not in the conciliation circle. Now we have changed the Minister for Housing, and it is so little difficult to know whether this means that the government considers itself to be part of the conciliation circle, or whether we are about to enter into negotiations without a minister being present at the table. It's gonna be exciting. I have asked about it, and by the present Minister for Housing, Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, I have received the answer that they could not answer within the time limit, so I wait. I am waiting for an answer as to whether the Minister will take the initiative to get the follow-up on the Fund's resources and what increased efforts should be made. This authorizing court, which the municipalities have for general housing, is used in many municipalities. There are also many municipalities where it is not fully used. I am sure that if it were to be increased to include authorising rights for private rental, it would provide municipalities with new tools to ensure better integration. Brøndby Strand is not on the government's list of vulnerable residential areas, and I think that is essential in this debate. Now we have heard in the debate that this is not a question of solving social problems, but that the Danish People's Party believes that there is a cultural problem. It is then a problem which is greater if you get over 50.0%. I think it will be exciting to follow whether the new Minister for Housing is more interested in the residential area than the former Minister, and whether sensible policies can be developed with the new Minister for Housing. The last refugees we have received in Denmark have been located in virtually all municipalities, and integration efforts are under way. I think it is important for municipalities to learn from past experience, whether it is good or bad experience, to focus on what groups of refugees have previously managed to integrate locally and what needs to be done with the specific refugees they receive. We have a Danish society that in some areas is multiculturally influenced. We live in a globalised world. There's definitely a lot of potential in some of these refugees and immigrants. I can, for example. not see that it is a problem that you have knowledge of many languages that is something that some companies are asking for. So I think we should focus on how to ensure the best possible integration and how to welcome the new refugees and integrate them into our residential areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207153229	There are a number of brief comments. First, it's sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207153233	Thank you. See, now Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen in his question to Mr. Martin Henriksen earlier on the day the safety study in Brøndby Strand. It's from May last year, and it shows that 70%. by the citizens of Brøndby Strand feel safe. A safety study has been carried out in the City of Copenhagen. There is no place in the City of Copenhagen where less than 85%. feel safe. I've been trying to find a safety check that gives a lower result than in Brøndby Strand. It's not possible. It's not possible. Brøndby Strand is the least safe area in Denmark. Brøndby Strand as safe as Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, in his question to Mr. Martin Henriksen, since it is the most insecure place in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20170207153338	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207153339	Yes, it might be interesting to know if Brøndby Strand has become a more secure area in recent years, where a housing social effort has been made, i.e. if there is something that indicates that the area is in a development where it is going the right way. I think that is what you should learn from and not just stand and point fingers. What is so terrible about the Danish People's Party is that they cannot make the soup. They can't set the table with the soup balls, they can't cut the bread, but they can sit and whip with a spoon and try to find hair in the soup. After all, this is not the kind of approach that will help us to achieve something that will ensure better integration. That's what I think we should focus on. However, I understand that this is more of a cultural debate in which we have to say as badly as possible about areas where there are many refugees and immigrants.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207153423	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207153424	I have to say that my experience of the Enhedslisten and, by the way, the new Enhedslisten, the Alternative, is very much that those very parties are very preoccupied with that with hair in the soup, so leave it alone. I just have to say that Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen conjured up a picture of Brøndby Strand as a safe place based on a study that, in conjunction with other studies, shows that Brøndby Strand is the most insecure place in Denmark. Will Mr. Soren Egge Rasmussen withdraw his view that Brøndby Strand is safe? Moreover, it can also be seen in the study that 41 per cent. First Vice-President Thank you! Then it is the rapporteur. ) 41 per cent.!
ParlaMint-DK_20170207153506	May I say in a rather general way about this debate that when I stand up, it is because the speaking time has gone well and well. That is why we should respect it, because we have these rules, and I think we should agree that we comply fairly. I understand that there may be commitment, but let us stick to the rules. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207153523	I understand, sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth will not consider whether the overall plan that has been implemented over the last four years has had a positive effect, i.e. whether there are trends out there that say it is good to make a housing social effort, because it is in fact something that draws an area in the right direction. I have to say that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207153541	Then it's mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207153544	The rapporteur devotes most of his speaking time to talking about integration and housing policy. I think it could be informative to talk about something else. Indeed, I believe that it must be about limiting the flow before it becomes an integration issue. I would really like the rapporteur to tell me about the austerity that we have managed to get through the Parliamentary Chamber over the last year and a half. How many of them will Enhedslisten roll back?
ParlaMint-DK_20170207153609	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207153611	I have no record of that, but I do not think there is any doubt that Enhedslisten would very much like to see the vast majority of the tightenings rolled back. We would like to work to ensure that there is a majority in favour of this, even though it looks a little bad so far, but opinion polls can change.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207153628	Sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207153630	It already sounds as if there is a lot of pressure being put on a possible social democratic government, it might come at some point. But we'll have to see about that then. Then I would like to ask the rapporteur about the Swedish immigration policy. We have to say that there has been an open gate, which among other things. has meant that there are 54 areas in Sweden where Swedish police cannot move out. And if you're going to move out, you're going to need incredibly powerful force, or you're simply being ambushed and piled up with stones. If the Enhedslisten had 90 seats in the Parliamentary Assembly, could we count on the Danish side to pursue the same immigration policy as that which we have seen in Sweden over the last 20 years?
ParlaMint-DK_20170207153709	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207153711	No, I am sure that we would conduct a Danish policy in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207153716	Then it's mr. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207153720	Now the rapporteur says about our proposal for adoption that there are no solutions. I just have to tell Enhedslisten that my experience with Enhedslisten and the like, i.e.. The left, in the 1980s, was that there were no solutions. There were no solutions. The Enhedslisten has not produced a single solution to the integration problem which is worth writing about at all. You have some abstract ideals about something, then you put your eyes to the blind eye, and then you say there are no problems. There are no problems with culture; there are no problems with Sharia; there are no problems with veil. Then we hear the same song that it is Enhedslisten who has the solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207153813	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207153815	I do not think I have said that there is any problem. I have thus stood by and praised the adoption of comprehensive plans which are nuanced, which try to lift a local population, try to make things from below, try to create better conditions for children, try to ensure that there is employment for young people who grow up in a vulnerable residential area and who may not just have contacts to find a leisure job. In other words, I am very much in favour of solving the problems locally and of local forces working together to solve the problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207153844	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207153846	The Enhedslisten has not given a single bid as to how many people are believed to be able to come to this country and which the country can bear not one, I have never heard it. I've never heard Enhedslisten be critical of this question. When the rapporteur is slightly sucked at the word culture, I think it is strange. Doesn't culture matter? Doesn't history matter? Doesn't religious prerequisites mean anything? Is there a difference between someone growing up in Saudi Arabia and someone growing up in Foulum where I live? I think there is, and it has something to do with culture, something to do with history and something to do with traditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207153925	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207153927	It is clear that one is carried by which culture one comes from and what experience one has, and I think that the Danish People's Party typically sees it too narrowly. I have ancestors who emigrated to Sweden and who then mainly migrated back to Denmark, and then there were some who went up to Norway. That migration between countries is quite natural as part of our culture. As a craftsman, I see nothing unreasonable at all in not wandering around and finding work in other countries. That's fucked up.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207154005	Then it's mr. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207154007	Thank you. I would like to ask the rapporteur a few questions, because the question debate is about the fact that there are several places in Denmark where Danes have come into the minority. Does Enhedslisten think that this is a problem, or does Enhedslisten think that it is quite all right that there are areas in Denmark where Danes have come in minorities? Does Enhedslisten like to see more such areas coming? Does it really matter that the Danes are in the minority? What does Enhedslisten really think about this question, because it is actually a fairly fundamental question? It is about whether the nation will survive in the long term in the sense that we have some common culture and some common traditions that we agree on.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207154050	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207154051	But I believe that many areas can be found in Denmark where integration has been hampered by the fact that too many people have lived without any link to the labour market. And among those people there have also been immigrants and refugees at times. So I am quite sure that we have had a settlement in Denmark which has meant that in some areas it has been harder to ensure integration. After all, we do not have a policy of re-building housing associations with hundreds of homes. We are in favour of having a mixed town where we ensure that in new residential areas there can be 25 per cent. general housing. We are in favour of there being an authorising court for the municipality for the private rental. So we're kind of trying to give the municipality better tools to be able to spread the people who have social problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207154141	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207154143	But this isn't about social problems. This is primarily about the fact that for many decades there has been an immigration to Denmark from countries far away from Danish culture and Western culture. Does Enhedslisten think it's a problem? Yes or no? It is okay that Enhedslisten will arrange for some more to be referred to housing outside socially vulnerable residential areas and ghetto areas. Anyway, we're gonna refer a lot of people away from Brøndby Strand if we're gonna solve the problems. So I would like to know whether Enhedslisten basically believes it is a problem that there are areas in Denmark where Danes come into minority. And if Enhedslisten thinks it is a problem, Enhedslisten must also draw the conclusion that then you have to limit the number that comes to Denmark. If you do not want to participate, you will accept that there will be more and more areas where Danes are in the minority.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207154231	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207154232	We would very much like to ensure good integration for those refugees who have arrived at the end of Denmark and who have been very much placed out in Outer Denmark, where they can help to ensure that there is no further depopulation. We look forward to that integration being successful. We would like Denmark to receive more refugees. That's for sure.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207154250	Then it's mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207154257	I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur believes that there is a greater cultural distance between the example mentioned by the rapporteur, namely that his ancestors, as I understood it, travelled from Denmark to Sweden and then to Norway, and what is happening today, when people travel from the Middle East to Greece and Italy and then all the way up Europe and end up in Denmark. Can it possibly have an impact on how integration potential is? It is very important to understand that one can of course be an extremely well-qualified and well-trained doctor, engineer or other and live well in Denmark and become a well-integrated part of Danish society, but can the rapporteur agree that the integration potential is often balanced on such a cultural weight, where the more different one's everyday life is, the more different the way one has grown up, the more difficult it may be to adapt to a new place to live with a new culture?
ParlaMint-DK_20170207154351	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207154352	Now it is not a question of some refugees just leaving some refugees who have fled. So, of course, my ancestors' story about being emigrated to Sweden and wandering around the Nordic countries isn't something you can just see as a parallel. But I can say that there have been great tensions between the countries at that time too, because the Nordic countries were not just on peaceful terms, so it has not been without problems. I think we should put the emphasis on exploiting the diversity of cultural backgrounds, making the best of it. And I am very opposed to just putting people in the booths and saying that then they cannot succeed because they belong to them and to those nationalities. I myself have worked as a carpenter, and we had an Iraqi Kurd as a carpenter's apprentice • can get through his education; he still lives away in the same city; he has a daughter who is educating himself as a doctor; I think it is nice when you meet him, to see that his and his wife's life has succeeded, although he has had a period in his life where he had to escape.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207154455	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207154456	After all, it is not a matter of personal experience alone. What I said was that the rapporteur should not take it as an indication that we could not, but that the distance was longer. There are plenty of good examples of successful integration, but unfortunately there are also many examples of the opposite. The last thing I want to ask the Enhedslisten's rapporteur is: can the Enhedslisten's rapporteur understand that there are a great many people born in this country who are deeply concerned that the place they have grown up suddenly has a different population composition than the one they were used to, with people who have a different culture and perhaps speak another language and have a very loose connection with the labour market?
ParlaMint-DK_20170207154528	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207154529	Yes, but it is important that we meet with these people and ensure integration. And one of the best places we can ensure the integration start it and continue working on it is the jobs, but also our association life. There is often a debate which I think is a little too steep. So, I am not sure that this debate today will help to promote better integration in Denmark. I'm not sure it'll help promote a better life for the residents who live in Brøndby Strand.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207154556	We thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Laura Lindahl, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207154603	Thank you. Here too, I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for raising a very important debate, because in the Liberal Alliance we share the concern that we have a larger residential area where there are more non-Western citizens living than there are Danes. But it is nothing new that we have residential areas where the proportion of non-Western citizens exceeds the proportion of Danes. The new thing is maybe it's just that now it's a whole zip code, that is, a larger area. But we have had ghettos for a long time, where the proportion of non-Western citizens not only exceeds the proportion of Danes, but city father exceeds the proportion of Danes. Take e.g. Mjølnerparken, as sir. Martin Henriksen also mentioned the first. Approx. 1,900 residents of the more than 500 apartments in Mjølnerparken, and approx. 85% of them are immigrants, 45%. is unemployed, and the last figure I saw was that there were 50 convicted citizens. It's nothing new. After all, in the Liberal Alliance we have proposed cooperation on precisely the Mjølner Park together with the housing association that administers Mjølnerparken, Lejerbo, where our proposal is that everyone in the Mjølnerparken should be deprived of cash assistance and replaced with a job guarantee. The idea was to say as a housing company that you can only live in Mjølnerparken if you accept a job guarantee instead of cash benefits. And if you don't want to, you have to move. This is supposed to lead to these people entering the labour market. We think that in the long term it will both create a closer connection with the Danish values, and this will give these citizens with a non-western background a better opportunity to build up an economy that allows them to move out of the ghetto. It is a concrete project that we are still working on, but it is also an expression of our thinking that we need to do something new. We cannot continue to talk about major municipal housing social interventions, because that is what we have been doing for 30 years without any particular effect. So we're trying to think about it this way, think about how we can do this in a new way. Our concern when it comes to Brøndby Strand, and as it does when it comes to Mjølnerparken or the others, is the framework for integration, i.e. whether they are optimal when the proportion of non-Western citizens exceeds the proportion of ethnic Danes. We do not think so. For integration for the Liberal Alliance is not that one accommodates one another in the middle. No, integration is the sharing of fundamental democratic values in our society. And how can we divide them, how can we approach them if we live in isolation from them? It's hard. So, just as the number of non-Western citizens makes a difference in the specific residential area, the number at national level does of course, and it is absolutely crucial that we do not close our eyes to it. That is why our policy in the Liberal Alliance has always been that we should introduce an asylum freeze, so that we should not be able to apply for asylum in Denmark, but that we should look in the vicinity. And now that we have joined the government, it has also been written into the government base that one would like to work on a model where it is a common European solution and I recognise that is difficult, but that is what the ambition is, where you then do not seek asylum in Denmark, but are looking for it in the vicinity. This will allow us to handle the number better. Then, of course, I would also like to mention the austerity measures that have already been taken on the famous 40 tightenings, because it has, of course, indicated that all figures have had an effect, and we have a low figure, and we welcome that. We are not calm and think that now we can just sit back, because we cannot do that in terms of numbers, nor, of course, in terms of the effort that needs to be made in relation to those who have been here for a long time. First of all, I said that we share DF's concern, and we do, and that is why, of course, we are also joining the adoption text, which Mr. Martin Henriksen read in his speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207155029	Thank you very much. We have a few brief comments to make. First, it's sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207155032	Mrs Laura Lindahl mentioned the hot potato himself, Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll's statements on 20 January 2016 about this asylum stop, which we in the Danish People's Party are very positive about. You guys can actually just make the proposal. We will vote for it tomorrow. When's it coming? When is this proposal that the Liberal Alliance said it would be put forward on 20 January 2016? When's it coming?
ParlaMint-DK_20170207155107	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207155107-2	As I said, something has happened since Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll mentioned it. We have gone into government, and what we have got into the government is really positive. Before, the Liberal Alliance was the only government party with the Danish People's Party to say this. After all, we have entered a government and we have actually got the whole government to agree to a proposal that we should not be able to apply for asylum in Denmark and that we should find European solutions so that asylum is sought outside Europe in the neighbourhood, and that is something that we think is positive. In fact, we think that this is the best way to stop the influx to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207155148	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207155149	I believe that many of the electorate of the Liberal Alliance are now wondering what exactly the Liberal Alliance has got out of going into government. I ask myself this once in a while. I'm thinking I shouldn't worry about it so much. However, replacing an asylum stop with the fact that you might be able to suck something together in the European Union in 20-30 years' time, I think is pauvert. So I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur will at least promise that the rapporteur will make a special effort to influence the Minister to actually put forward this proposal in Parliament so that we can vote on it so that we can really close the door to Denmark for these people.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207155235	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207155236	There is no doubt that when we went into government, we were positive that we could now get more parties to join in the model that states that asylum cannot be sought in Denmark. What is in the government base now is better than what was in the government base before the Liberal Alliance was involved. I also hope that the Danish People's Party recognises that this is a step in the right direction. Of course, in line with the Danish People's Party, we want to close the gate, and I can also assure the rapporteur that we are working for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207155310	Then it's mr. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207155312	Thank you. Well, I would like to start by saying that I am very pleased that the Liberal Alliance too is concerned that there are now residential areas where more than 50% of the population live. has roots in a non-Western country. I think that is a very good thing, because it might be feared that a liberal party would strike out with its arms and say that people must settle wherever they want and that the Folketing should not interfere. I think it is a good thing that the Liberal Alliance is now taking the second position. But what worries me is that the Liberal Alliance rapporteur then repeats what we could hear the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party saying earlier, namely that there is a majority of citizens in Brøndby Strand who are not Danes. It is therefore worrying, and it is worrying, that now also the Liberal Alliance will support the proposal for adoption, which Mr. Martin Henriksen read earlier. It would be a completely wild situation if the majority of the Danish parliament decided in the day after tomorrow that the majority of the citizens of Brøndby Strand are not Danes. It would be an absurd situation to get into. People live there in the third and fourth generation and are completely well integrated for some. I understand that there are plenty of people who do not want to have a lot of people who do not want Denmark, and I agree that we are also in an ideological cultural struggle with them, but we must not end up in a situation where the majority of the Danish parliament says that the majority of the citizens of Brøndby Strand are not Danes. That would be so toxic.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207155423	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207155424	When Mr. Mattias Tesfaye talks about the fact that as liberals we could have taken a different position, I would say that it is not true that we all had the opportunity to take a different position because we are liberals. Well, being liberal doesn't mean that you don't care about our culture in Denmark; that you don't care about the rate of crime; that you don't care about how it goes in local communities. It doesn't mean that. Of course, we don't decide where people settle, but we decide that where you settle, you conform to the rules that are in our country. So there is nothing uliberal about the fact that we have a position that the number of citizens of Brøndby Strand with non-Western background exceeds the number of ethnic Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207155510	Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207155512	The reason why I mention this is that when people were discussing whether refugees who were granted a residence permit in Denmark should be spread out in all Danish municipalities, or whether they should be able to settle where they wanted, or where Danish Refugee Aid found a residence for them, it was of course positions which, among other things, took place. was presented by the Social Democratic Party and among others. were countered by people who argued with roots in classical liberal parties and philosophies. But it's so okay. But what is really my question is: could the Liberal Alliance not consider removing the passage which says that it is a minority of the citizens of Brøndby Strand who are Danes? I think it would be really toxic for integration if what we are now saying to the majority of citizens in Brøndby Strand is that they are not Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207155557	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207155558	I do not think that there are very many who are in doubt about what we mean when we say Danes. I think we should be very careful about saying that it was also the Enhedslisten's rapporteur that we are not doing anything good for integration because we are saying things as they are. In fact, I think it is important that we start to say things exactly the way they are, in order to talk this issue up instead of wrapping it up, as I have the impression that we have been doing for a very, very many years. So I'm in favour of a way to talk about this where we don't wrap it up.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207155632	Thank you to Mrs Laura Lindahl. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207155658	Thank you. This is a request called by the Danish People's Party about how the government feels about the fact that in Brøndby Strand there are more people with immigrant backgrounds than with Danish backgrounds. I would like to commend Mattias Tesfaye for giving a real insight into Brøndby Strand, and I must hurry to say that I do not have the same local knowledge of Brøndby Strand that Mattias Tesfaye clearly has. I assume, as in my discussion of this, that Brøndby Strand has been taken as an example to lift the debate so that we can have a debate on the issue mentioned by the Danish People's Party in relation to the proportion of people with ethnic origins other than Danish in different areas. There are such different things I'd like to come around. One is that what I think the proposers are doing with their questions is, in fact, that they are cutting everyone off. In other words, we are cutting all people with an immigrant background over a comb instead of asking whether we are talking about war refugees, talking about family-run spouses, talking about highly trained labour, immigrants or descendants of Hungarian refugees. It is important, for me at least, to say that in this debate I think it is important that we say that new dancers are as different as we are, for example. Mr. Martin Henriksen is in relation to me. I am sure that we also have different ways of being Danes. Many of these people have lived in Denmark for many years, they have contributed to the Danish Treasury, their children have attended a Danish primary school, and they have had their everyday life in Denmark. That is why I think it is important that we do not cut them all across the board. To me, the problem really arises if we get out there, where we don't meet each other crosswise, because we so easily get a perception and a misunderstood picture of what it really means to be Danish by the year 2017 and be part of the community that we call Denmark. We do not have the opportunity to meet each other, for example. has residential areas where there are very many ethnic origins other than Danish, and that is also why some of the proposals we have in the Alternative are to say that we need a housing policy where we ensure mixed construction, so that we have the opportunity to create the right conditions for a mixed composition so that we can meet each other crosswise. We must also ensure that when we make renovations, we have to look at the architecture we use so that people have the opportunity to meet each other. Among other things, there are: was really great success out on Amager, where the surrounding residents, before being renovated, said that they would not under any circumstances want to live in this residential building. After the renovation, where it has been opened up and it has been possible to enter the residential area in question and deliver your child in day care, etc., 30 per cent say. of the residents, that now, in the long term, they would like to move in. Then I would also like to say that I do not believe that inequality contributes to inclusion in society, and that is why we are of the opinion that the reduction in poverty benefits has been reduced so as to reduce cash benefits, cut benefits for integration and so on. At least that's not what helps. Nor does it help to meet the challenges we know there are, with social control. What is then important to me is to point out some of the positive things that we know are happening. We have just seen an article yesterday or the day before yesterday in Politiken about Mjølnerparken, where the women are engaged in the quiet revolution, as I think they called it; where Jan Høttel, chairman of Lejerbo, called it the Copenhagen Spring; where Søren Dalsgaard, president of the housing association out there, says that now they have more women on the board than men; and where we see the women who have not previously wanted to shake hands, now hug the men. It is, of course, the long, tough move that needs to be made, and I think that we are seeing a great many positive trends at the moment, while at the same time constantly ensuring that we are better and better at integrating. Now I know why the rapporteur of the Left has now gone so hard to keep time. That is because we only have three minutes, so now I will stop before the President gets up.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207160154	Thank you for that, rapporteur. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207160203	Thank you. As I recall, Mrs Josephine Fock has five minutes' speaking time, but peace is with it. Many wrong things are said by the Alternative, just as many wrong things are said by the Enhedslisten, and that is logical enough, because the two parties are of course not distinguishable from each other. But I really think that I will try to grasp some of what I think the Danish People's Party and the Alternative might actually agree on. The rapporteur said that the rapporteur saw it as a problem that we do not meet crosswise. I think we agree on that as a starting point. Then I would just like to hear how the rapporteur feels about Turkish third-generation immigrants sending their children to Turkish kindergarten, Turkish private school, Turkish high school, and thus in fact getting a whole upbringing without meeting any Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207160255	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207160257	Thank you. I think it is important that there is freedom to send your children to the school you want. At the same time, I am a very great advocate of the Danish primary school, because that is where we meet crosswise and meet people with a different social background. Therefore, in the Alternative, we would like to work to ensure that the primary school becomes even more attractive, so that all sections of the population in Denmark, including people of ethnic origin other than Danish, send their children to a Danish primary school.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207160330	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207160332	Well, Mrs. Josephine Fock, that was a real politician's answer. I don't think sir. Uffe Elbæk will be proud of that answer. What will Mrs Josephine Fock do about it if Mrs Josephine Fock thinks it is a problem? There's more and more of these schools coming up. More and more people are being put in these schools. And I must say to Mrs Josephine Fock that it has nothing to do with the Danish primary school. It has something to do with wanting to distance yourself from Danish society, wanting self-segregation, wanting to be yourself. What will Mrs Josephine Fock do about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170207160408	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207160410	I think I answered. I said that I do not want to impose on anyone that there should not be a free choice of school, that there should not be free schools. I think that's a good thing. At the same time, I would like to work to ensure that we have a Danish primary school which is as widely based as possible so that we can be mixed as much as possible. So I actually think I answered the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207160432	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207160455	It is not a debate that is new in the Folketing, but it has, it can be said, got a little new wrapping today, because the questioners have chosen to designate a particular area in Denmark, which should, like it, be the stumbling block in this discussion. I think it is really important that we discuss the real problems there are, and there are quite a lot of them: we have challenges in vulnerable residential areas where lots of people with the same types of problems live in the same places, and we also have a housing policy which over the years has led us to experience increasing polarisation in Danish society. But when we discuss these challenges, I also think it is important that the backdrop is in place. What kind of Denmark are we living in today? We live in a Denmark right now, where unemployment is below 5%. We do not have to go back many years before we faced an economic crisis where job losses were the biggest in many years. However, we have taken joint action and taken responsibility and made sure that we have made it through the crisis and are, in fact, now looking into a number of challenges that are more reminiscent of the time before the crisis than after the crisis. We are a country that is enviable in many ways. Compared to other places, yes, just in our European neighbourhood, where young people in southern Europe are struggling with youth unemployment of between 25 and 50%, conditions in Denmark are significantly different. You have good options. Few communities are designed so that the possibilities are formally more equal than in Danish society. However, we can also see around us that the same opportunities are not actually available in the same way, and they are certainly not actually being used in the same way. That is why I think the good thing about such a debate as the one we have here today is if we can agree that we have challenges that we have not yet solved. The boring thing about such a debate here is if it turns into a pointy finger. You can always point your finger backwards and say that it is former politicians who have made wrong decisions. Some have certainly done so. But the interesting thing is what responsibility will be taken as a politician today. What is boring is if you identify certain groups of people as being a problem if, regardless of how they behave, whatever their abilities and their will, you can proclaim them to a problem, based only on statistics in a residential area. Fortunately, however, we can take the discussion quite really and ask what challenges we are facing. I just want to draw up three issues. I think we have a problem in the area of primary education, where we are increasingly seeing that some schools are left with the greatest tasks when it comes to integrating and solving social problems. I would also like to take part in this and say that we can do better than we have done over the years. Because I think it's important that a primary school is a school where people meet cross-country. It has actually been a feature of the Danish primary school for the more than 200 years we have had compulsory education. It's been time to meet across the street. Across cultural and social backgrounds one had to meet. And that is not the case everywhere in our primary schools today, and we should take care of that. I also think we can see that there is a tendency for our residential areas to be polarised. I grew up in 8240 Risskov myself. One of my very good friends and political colleagues, our Culture Councilor in Aarhus, Rabih Azad-Ahmad, grew up in 8210. We are both 40 years old, and in the years that have passed since we grew up and went to school, the residential areas may be those in Denmark, which have run off most in different directions, when you look at the economic capacity. All this calls for political action. Finally, there is still the challenge of social control in some places, so young people who are not free to choose their own spouse, not free to live the life they want, not free to have a different sexuality than the majority. We should never accept that. But the basic and important thing is that we never allow such a debate here to lead us to judge people on the basis of general statistics. Everyone in Denmark must have access to equal opportunities. Everyone has to answer for their own actions. But separately and together, we form society, and it does not help to hold debates aimed at polarising.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207160941	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207160947	Thank you. Yes, you can be in doubt whether Mr. Morten Østergaard even regards this as a problem. Now, sir. Morten Østergaard, probably for good reasons, did not have the opportunity to follow the whole debate and probably did not notice that the reason why Brøndby Strand was taken forward, among other things. is that it is Denmark's most insecure area. At least that's where security studies give the lowest result. Actually, I'd like to ask Mr. Morten Østergaard, about Mr. Morten Østergaard believes that this is a problem. It's not quite clear to me. Sir. Morten Østergaard himself has been quite good at getting people to talk, you might say. When Mr. Morten Østergaard was first elected to the Folketing, Mr. Morten Østergaard made a great effort out in Gellerupparken and got 24 per cent. of the votes, 888 personal votes, corresponding to more than 10%. by Mr. Morten Østergaard's total vote. Then Mr. Morten Østergaard actually that it is a problem that there is such an area in Denmark where the Danes are no longer in the majority?
ParlaMint-DK_20170207161047	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207161049	That was a lot of questions at once. I generally think it's bad if people live in insecurity. I also thought that at the beginning of my speech I was trying to make it clear that I think we have problems with vulnerable residential areas not only in the Copenhagen area but around the country. I think it presents us with challenges when people with the same social problems live side by side and far away from the opportunities that were given me in my upbringing and that I can give my children. But I think it will be difficult when you have the approach that the Danish People's Party has today, and just as you judge whole groups on the basis of their ethnic origin and in this way you say that they are not really Danish. I do not agree with that. I think it is important to see the real problems and the real problems are that the opportunities in Denmark are not equally available; that social problems are inherited. People of other ethnic backgrounds also experience it. And we have to do something about that. But around the world we can easily see that it is possible to do so, but it is about having the ambition of it, and I sometimes have doubts about it from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207161156	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207161158	I mean, it's paradoxical to see Mr. Knox. Morten Østergaard in fact carries out such a classic, dogmatic Marxist argument in relation to why we have the problems we have. These are social problems, it is something about work, employment and something like that. This thing with culture, religion and things like that and personal responsibility, Mr. Morten Østergaard didn't say anything at all. Sir. Morten Østergaard is a classic Marxist with this problem. - Sir... Morten Østergaard does not see at all that one's culture has any significance in relation to the possibility of being integrated into Danish society?
ParlaMint-DK_20170207161235	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207161237	Still, it's rare for me to be so exclaimed as a Marxist. I think we can find a single Marxist or two who think I'm very distant from it. Nevertheless, I would like to ask: who really is dogmatic? Who really justifies personal responsibility? I have talked about looking at individuals separately and making them accountable for their deeds and their actions and ensuring each individual opportunity, while the Danish People's Party hangs in statisticians, categories, religious backgrounds, regardless of the fact that all types of religions are practiced differently. So my answer is that there is room for different cultures in Denmark, that every day there are people with different ethnic or cultural backgrounds than the majority in Denmark who prove that this can be done. All we have to do is make it work for more people.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207161325	Sir. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207161328	Thank you. Well, of course, there are people with a different background than Danish who show that they can do a lot of things and it is happy when they succeed. But I would like to know whether the Radical Left and Mr. Morten Østergaard believes that it is a problem that there are areas in Denmark where, according to the statistics, Danes are in a minority and where it is also the case that when you move into those areas, you do not exactly feel as if you are in Denmark; sometimes you feel more as if you are in Amman or somewhere else in the Middle East. Mr. Morten Østergaard, that's a problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20170207161356	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207161358	Is it a problem how Mr. Martin Henriksen has it when he moves around Denmark? It may be, but it's not a problem I'm going to take on my shoulders. There's something I think you should understand. In the part of the debate that I have followed, I could hear that Mr. Martin Henriksen also had to soften up his very hard definition of what is Danish and what is not. And we've done that before. We've been in a TV debate where Mr. Martin Henriksen accused half of being a Dane, just because he was born and raised in Denmark, had gone to Danish school and spoken Danish. Later, Mr. Martin Henriksen, that his mother was Danish, and maybe he was, maybe he wasn't. I think you should be very careful when you pull out stereotypes like that. I visited Tingbjerg at one time and met some young people while I was walking around. It was nice to be visiting there too, where many, if they just read the paper, think that you probably shouldn't set foot. And what they said was: Just remember that all of us are also caring for our school; those of us who want a job; those of us who are working for our future. We're here too, it's our home too. And that is why we need to be careful how we deal with this debate so that we do not fall short of the real problems, namely those for whom it does not succeed, or those who take freedom from others and who, of course, have to be held accountable for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207161516	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207161518	Well, I've just said that you don't automatically become a Dane because you were born in Denmark and you went to Danish school, and neither will you. If that was the case, we wouldn't have that kind of problem. Then it may be that the Danish People's Party did not exist at all, that is, if we did not have those problems. So that's the reality, and I think we should deal with it or else we're in a bad place in here. But I don't think that sir... Morten Østergaard answered my question. Because my question was, in effect, whether Mr. Morten Østergaard and the Radical Left believe that it is a problem that there are areas in Denmark where Danes are in minorities. Do you think that's a problem? You have to be able to answer yes or no to that. That's fair enough, if you think it's great, then you mean it, but if you think it's a problem, what will you do to solve the problem? Can one not see that it is a little difficult to avoid that somehow we have to adopt rules that make us limit the influx to Denmark so we have just a small chance of integrating the many people who are now in the country?
ParlaMint-DK_20170207161612	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207161613	I think I answered the question very precisely throughout my rapporteur's speech. I said: at least we have challenges in our housing policy, which right now bring together people with the same types of challenges. These may be challenges when we have just come here and need to be integrated. These may be challenges of a social nature, of an employment-related, educational nature, or the polarisation of our society. My claim is just that if we're gonna start with reality, I'm the one who's arguing about how we address the real problems while Mr. Martin Henriksen time and time again just stands up and dances on them in the hope of getting the most political pleasure out of them. And there I'm not at all for myself it's about making a difference compared to the people that I'm absolutely sure individually want the best for themselves and for their children. And it is about us not creating a society in which we live separately, but creating a society in which we live together.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207161706	Then it's mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207161708	Thank you for that and thank you to the Chairman of the Radical Left. Actually, I was a little upset about it, sir. Morten Østergaard said earlier, and I quote: I cannot worry about how Mr. Martin Henriksen has it. Well, considering that Mr. Martin Henriksen has at some point been equipped with PET guards to ensure that some of the people, sir. Morten Østergaard refers to Mr. Martin Henriksen and his family, I think that is a rather insensitive comment. What is the party leader's reaction to that?
ParlaMint-DK_20170207161732	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207161733	But what I am aiming for is when one refers to residential areas as one thing or the other, as places where how did it fall? Those were the feelings that Mr. Martin Henriksen described. Then I said that I will not let my policy drift from that, that is, about Mr. Martin Henriksen, in some parts of Denmark, feels that he is referring to other nations. What this is about, and I answered Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, is that of course there is no place where people should not feel safe when they are at home or when they are visiting.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207161807	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207161809	I'm glad to hear that. That is not what I heard, but I know the rapporteur and the party chairman as an honourable man. In fact, I think it is a problem when we see that there are places where we have ghetto formations, and I know that the rapporteur does, but at the same time I also know that the rapporteur for his party is in favour of a completely different foreign policy from the one I am in favour of. Just briefly: how many refugees is it really room for in this country?
ParlaMint-DK_20170207161833	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207161835	It would have been a shame if we had had a debate of this nature, without someone asking that question, especially to me as a radical, and then we can take it back. Is that the case, sir? Jakob Engel-Schmidt and the party he represents, who has been in power for two years now and who came to power on the promise of a complete asylum freeze, have delivered it? No, you don't, because you can't decide how many refugees come to Denmark. I've been in debates with Mr. Simpson. Kristian Thulesen Dahl and Mrs Mette Frederiksen and got the same question where no one would count. However, I would like to say once again that the number of refugees coming to Denmark means something. The more that comes, the greater is the integration task. I fight for a world where fewer people need to flee to live. I would urge the Left to stop cutting back on development aid if you really want there to be fewer refugees in the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207161927	Then there's one more question. Sir. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207161932	It's kind of just a short comment. A year and a half ago I went to the cultural weekend in Brøndby Strand to visit the area, and it was Pia Kjærsgaard who has now become the chairman of the Danish Parliament.She was not at that time too, and she walks quietly through the Brøndby Strand plan and meets Mr. and Mrs. Denmark, tall and low, and chatting with them. The Danish People's Party has rooms right next to the Social Democracy in Brøndby Strand, and there are no problems. There's never any vandalism, at least not that I know of. It is not the case that the Danish People's Party has been hunted wildly in Brøndby. The Danish People's Party is thus part of the constitution and has a close cooperation with the municipal council and the Social Democratic mayor. So there is no reason to portray Brøndby Strand as a place where you can't stay, walk or feel safe because you vote for the Danish People's Party. There may be other reasons for feeling insecure, but not political reasons. Well, at least it should be some of that, sir. Naser Khader has mentioned before.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207162024	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207162026	Thank you for that comment. I would just like to add to that, so it is incomprehensible that I think crime is a problem everywhere it arises. I think it is a problem when people feel insecure and afraid to walk on the streets and alleys, no matter where in Denmark it is. However, what I am opposed to is when the debate is conducted on false grounds. When it is the same people who have insisted that 450 officers should stand down at the Danish-German border, as if it created security in Brøndby Strand or anywhere else, instead of letting them come home and do what the police would like to do, namely create security for the citizens, then I just think it will be a hypocrisy. I just wanted to say thank you to Mr. Simpson. Mattias Tesfaye for the remark which is well placed, but no one should be in any doubt that I think that insecurity wherever it may be should be combated. But this is not done by contributing to the insecurity of the way in which the political debate is conducted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207162126	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207162132	It just needs to be very short. Now that I have the floor and the radical rapporteur is on the floor, I would also like to call on the Radical Left to listen to the views expressed in this debate, namely that there is a very broad majority in the Danish Parliament who is concerned that there are areas of Denmark, namely two, Brøndby Strand and the postal code in which Vollsmose is located, where there is a majority of citizens with a non-Western background, and that it should also make the alarm bells ring in the Radical Left to ensure that we have a low influx in the future, a few residence permits, the spread of those who come to the country and a reasonable cash integration effort. And with integration efforts I also mean a cultural meeting where we are quite cash about how the Danish values should be understood. Otherwise we will end up in a situation where there will be more areas like Vollsmose and Brøndby Strand, and I do not think that is in anyone's interest.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207162217	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207162219	I think, in my rapporteur's speech, I made it very clear, as I heard the Socialist rapporteur in his speech, that a lot of mistakes have been made in housing policy and in settlement policy, and I would like to ask a question, even though the roles are not quite right now. I should just like to understand whether it is the case that it is believed that changing with a jewelry law or changing the family reunification rules for a small group of refugees who come here, namely those who have a special residence status, solves some of the problems, Mr President. Mattias Tesfaye mentions there. It is quite a different effort that needs to be made, and I am well aware that no new refugees are being placed in Vollsmose. It is therefore a task to ensure that we do not make the same mistakes again, and therefore it is a challenge that we have exposed residential areas. No one should doubt that the Radical Left too is of the opinion.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207162315	Then we would like to thank the radical rapporteur. The next one we can invite up here is Mr. Knox. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207162329	Ghetto is not a good thing. Anywhere in the world we see it, it is not a good thing, and it is a widespread phenomenon in other countries too. If you come to the United States, you can see that they are there; if you go to different developing countries, you can see that they are there. And it's always bad when people with a certain background, it can be social, it can be ethnic, it can be cultural, it can be other things, it can close itself together and not have contact with the world that is around them. That is very much what characterizes the ghetto. It is also bad when it takes place in Danish residential areas, which is why I think that if this debate today is to make sense and from the comments made so far it may be difficult to see, but if it is to make sense it has to be more general about how to avoid ghetto formations in Danish residential areas, be it Brøndby Strand, be it Vollsmose, be it Gellerupparken, be it all the other places where you see ghettos and see trends in it. After all, these problems are not solved by the policy of refugees, as the Minister has just suggested. Half, perhaps three quarters, of her speech was about austerity in the area of refugees, but that is not what this is all about. It is about people who, if I may say so, crawl together in certain areas and do not have sufficient contact with the surroundings outside the areas concerned. Basically, in my opinion, it is about two issues. There are some social problems that have been in society for many years, and there has been a completely misguided housing policy for many years. As far as social matters are concerned, there is, of course, a completely classic context, including in ghetto areas: a link between ethnicity and social problems. When the two things come together, you have two problems next to each other, which can then be difficult to deal with. After all, the social aspect is not confined to the ethnic one, and that is why, if we can say so, we have two problems alongside each other which may give rise to difficulties. Brøndby Strand as a residential area is in fact an interesting example of the Danish welfare policy in the 1960s. It was decided to clean up the residential areas of Copenhagen, where the working class was packed together, and instead of building new housing outside Copenhagen, non-profit housing with air and light, close to the beach, with new S-trains, new infrastructure etc. This was the vision of the welfare architects in the 1960s. That was how it was at first in Brøndby Strand, and that is how it was at the beginning in Gellerupparken. I myself was a postman in Gellerup Park in 1972, just when it was started, and I still remember that it was a hugely attractive area. Many had moved out there, they were happy to live out there, and new ones kept coming in, but since then we have seen that this has changed because, to put it bluntly, a housing policy has been adopted which has favoured owner-occupied housing rather than general housing. This means that as soon as people have been able to afford to pay out at an owner's residence, they have bought one of these because it has been economically sensible for them to do so. But this has meant that instead of being a sector for the whole population, which was originally the intention, the general sector has become a sector for socially disadvantaged Danes. It may be of foreign origin, it may be called ethnic Danes, it may be Danes of Danish-Ethnic origin, one can say etc. That is why you have got those residential areas, which have the many problems, and we have to start from solving those problems instead of talking about culture and Islam and about how to deal with them per year. definition cannot integrate because one comes from a foreign culture and then tackle the problems as they are grounded as they are as one tries in some places. It has been mentioned earlier in today's debate that the Mjølner Park has started to solve these problems, that people in the housing movement, fire souls, have started to solve these problems. We must give them support instead of pointing the finger at them, as many people are doing here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207162908	We thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207162917	Thank you. Now the question debate is about residents of Brøndby Strand with immigrant background. That's the headline. That is why I cannot help reading out an open letter a few years ago to the former Social Democratic Prime Minister Helle Thorning-Schmidt about a Social Democratic Council member sitting on the City Council in Brøndby, and about some experiences with him when I was out giving a presentation in Brøndby's cultural house. There I met the person named Youssef Khalil, who was mentioned earlier by the Socialist rapporteur, and therefore I repeat the name: Youssef Khalil. On several occasions he has aired a lot of anti-Semitic attitudes, holocaust denials, etc. in public and not in public and on social media. As I said, I wrote an open letter to Helle Thorning-Schmidt to ask her to distance him or put him in his place, because the Brøndby mayor, Ib Terp, when confronted with those anti-Semitic attitudes, had replied that differing opinions in individual areas are allowed in most parties. I think they are more than different. Few people have heard of Youssef Khalil, but he acts as a role model in the area, and he sits on the City Council for Social Democracy. A few years ago, when I was at a debate meeting in Brøndby Cultural House, he came in the middle of the meeting flanked by a group of roots and troublemakers. It was clear that he did not participate to contribute constructively to a democratic form of debate. Instead, he tried to spoil the meeting, stir up the youths by repeatedly getting up and interrupting the meeting. He clearly approached the group and said among other things: To me: Why do you come here to Brøndby? We don't want you here. You're not welcome. You're a traitor. And then he turned to the group and asked them if they agreed with him that I was a traitor. When we were leaving, bottles were actually thrown at us, after the PET car and a patrol car that was also there. This is my last experience from Brøndby, which is why I think it is a relevant debate we have on Brøndby and other ghetto areas. I love the Middle East, but not Nørrebro and Gellerup and Vollsmose. I'm in East Jutland. In the last election I was invited to a debate meeting in Gellerup, and there I was told that it took between 25 and 30 officers to complete the meeting. That is the reality in Denmark today in certain ghetto areas, and that is why I simply cannot see any benefits from the ghettos. What characterises the ghettos is social control, fundamentalism and crime, and that is why we must do everything we can to prevent ghettos from arising. I just don't see any benefits. People also move in a world where you have a completely different perception of the outside world than what the reality is and where you sometimes anger each other with hatred of the surrounding society. I remember a few years ago I was a consultant at Mjølnerparken. That's when I could get there. We had a meeting with some young teenagers, and a young man aged 13 or 14 said that the Danes are racists and that he hates them etc. I asked him: What is the problem? They won't give us a job. I asked him: Have you ever sought a job yourself? No, he did not; that is what he had heard in the ghetto area. So I simply do not see any benefits from them and therefore it is extremely important that we do everything we can to ensure that no more ghettos appear. In those we have, there must be a much better distribution, and it will be contaminated at the nearest day care centres, schools, etc. However, if people are to be scattered, it is extremely important that we also look at the way in which they are built. People must also spread to other areas, because it is about prices, it is about accessibility. We must also take that into account. And then it's about the fact that many of those who live in the ghettos are on transfer income, and we need to get them away from transfer income. That is why I believe that what the government is doing is the right thing to do in relation to some of the restrictions that have been made, both in terms of numbers but also in terms of an incentive to take a job, to learn the language, to become a positive contributing citizen. Many immigrants make a positive contribution. They carry the doors quietly, and we have to remember to appreciate and praise them once in a while. They're making a lot of effort. However, it is not they who are the most active in the debate, and it is therefore extremely important that we address the problems that are so important in the debate, among other things. ghetto problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207163444	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207163450	Thank you to the rapporteur for reminding us of Youssef Idiab. I'm gonna stay there because I know a little bit about the man. I've been looking at Facebook to see what he's breaking up with. There you can, among other things. See that he is using a television station called Al-Quds, which has suffered from Hamas. He uses it, among other things. as a witness to the truth of how many Israel has killed, etc. So I'm actually gonna ask mr. Naser Khader quietly, about Mr. Naser Khader, with his experience from the Middle East, believes that the Hamas television station Al-Quds is a trustworthy media. And, like the other, I would like to ask whether, in the Conservative People's Party, one would look at someone who seems to have sympathy for what, after all, one might well call relatively radical Islam when we speak of Hamas.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207163556	Thank you. We're getting far away from the subject, but we're trying. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207163602	The reason he has become a topic today in the debate is because he is mentioned as a role model by the Socialist rapporteur. At least that made me say that it is simply not correct. For experience with him is that he is not a positive role model. He incites hatred. He incites hatred for the surrounding society. That is why I do not understand why the Social Democrats have not excluded him many years ago with the positions he stands for. With regard to Hamas: My position, the position of the Conservatives, is that Hamas is a terrorist organisation. They are on the terrorist list, and that cannot be called into question. But if they own Al-Quds, I don't really know. But Al-Qud's TV has sympathy for Hamas.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207163653	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207163655	I must also say that I think this is highly relevant. Because this says something about the fact that when a person can be highlighted as a role model and sit in a municipal council, he also has some voters behind him. And those voters have chosen them, probably on the basis of their positions, which at least 50%, if you look at this side, have something to do with the Israel-Palestine conflict. That is why it is relevant to take up this matter. I just think it is a problem that in a Danish party one tolerates having such a person sitting and representing oneself, and I just want to ask whether Mr. Naser Khader could imagine that the same would be tolerated in the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207163735	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207163737	I do not think he would have a chance in the Conservative People's Party. He had been expelled long ago with the attitudes towards Jews and Islamism that he stands for. So I hope that this debate will impress the Social Democrats in Brøndby and that they can have a good talk with him and possibly exclude him.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207163805	The next question is Mr. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207163809	Thank you. As I also said earlier from the platform, I would like to follow up on that e-mail, sir. Naser Khader has sent to me in which some of the quotes which he is also reading today as rapporteur from the platform are written. So before I go into this matter any more, I'd like to follow it up. However, I would like to stress now that we are standing in the Chamber, that the Social Democrats cannot tolerate anyone being attacked with bottles or that there is no holocaust denial whatsoever. But the reason why I actually took the floor was to ask Mr. Naser Khader, how he feels about the wording of the proposal for adoption made by a majority of the Folketing that a majority of the citizens of Brøndby Strand are not Danes. Because I think it is absolutely crucial that we can say to people who come to our country that if they are to be here, they must reach out for the Danish values, integrate themselves and become Danes, even if they are born of people who have migrated to Denmark. And with the proposal for adoption that is on the table now, we signal that no matter how much you reach out for Danish society and the Danish values, you will never be able to become a Dane in the eyes of the majority of the people alone because you are a descendant. Isn't that a problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20170207163923	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207163925	If you look at the figures and look at the nationality, there are formally many who live in Brøndby Strand, who are Danish citizens, but if they really and identityally define themselves as Danes, are very individual. There are some that it is extremely difficult to push Danishism down over their heads, and there are some who choose to have loyalty to other nations, even though they are born and raised in Denmark, have gone to Danish school and have Danish passports. The fact that you have a passport and paper that you are a Dane does not in all cases mean that you define yourself as a Dane. But if you define yourself as a Dane and feel like a part of this society, you must of course be included.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207164014	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207164021	I just want to say that there are people without a Danish passport who feel like Danes and that there are also people with a Danish passport who in no way identify themselves as Danes and who only have a passport because they then do not need to apply for a visa. But the rapporteur knows all about that. Yesterday I was internship in a kindergarten, and there was a teacher named Yildiz. She was born and raised in Brøndby Strand and feels completely like a Dane. And what is my point is that with the proposal for adoption that is on the table now, a majority in the Danish Parliament says to her Yildiz, the educator: You are not Dane. I think it is quite crazy that the Danish People's Party has succeeded in getting the governing parties to take on such a proposal for adoption, and therefore I just appeal to you not to answer me now that you may just go into the think box and get rid of the passage that says that if you are an immigrant or descendant of immigrants, you are no matter what to regard as a non-Danish. It is, of course, to slam the door in the head of all the many people who do exactly as we say they should: reach out for the Danish values and want to be Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207164121	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207164123	That is not what is being said in the proposal for adoption: Yildiz, you are not a Dane. But I think it is an unfortunate message that the rapporteur sends to Yildiz when he says: they tell you that you are not a Dane. No one says Yildiz is not Dane if she defines herself as Dane. What is referred to here is whether you are formally a Dane, in other words on paper. These are the figures we use when we define an area as being ghetto area or nonghetto area that is at least one of the criteria: how many people live there with a non-ghetto background.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207164200	The next question is Mr. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207164203	I don't think it's that easy, sir. Naser Khader. The definition used in statistics is also mentioned. This is what concerns immigrants or descendants of immigrants from non-western countries. That's a well-known definition from all the statistics we do. That is the next sentence of the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr von der Vring on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Naser Khader gives his name, that's the problem. You turn it right upside down and say that Danes should not be in the minority. It has therefore been said that all those who are immigrants or descendants of immigrants from non-western countries are not Danes. I'm just gonna ask sir. Naser Khader: Is it incompatible with being a Dane to be a descendant of an immigrant from a non-Western country? I certainly hope that is not the view of the Conservative People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20170207164249	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207164250	I mean, it's a word clip. That is not what is being said. If you define yourself as a Dane, you are a Dane. In the proposal for adoption, we do not say to some people who themselves feel like Danes that they are not Danes. I agree with what is stated in the proposal for adoption that, if you are to be integrated into Denmark, you have to be in a minority in the areas where you live. This is the best way to integrate. But if there are many people who do not have a Danish background we have to use the term "Danish" then you will not be integrated. It is easier to integrate into areas where you are in a minority.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207164332	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207164334	I kind of agree with that, sir. Naser Khader pointed out as the solution in his rapporteur's speech. There is a failed housing policy, which means that you live together. Instead of living together, as different as we are, we live more and more together, as alike as we are. This is a bad way of creating integration. Maybe that's a better answer than what I gave to Mr. Knox. Mattias Tesfaye. I agree that this is a challenge. But the problem is that what is being proposed and will be adopted is that it is the Folketing's view that Danes should not be in minorities in residential areas. It is not people with Danish background, no, it is Danes, and thus you exclude all those who do not have an ethnic Danish background. I find that deeply regrettable. I really don't believe that can be sir. Naser Khader or the basic concept of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207164424	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207164425	That is not the intention. The message is not that we exclude people who see themselves as Danes. But you have to use some concepts in a proposal for adoption, in which you would say that it is a bad thing to have areas where there is a majority that are not Danes, i.e. ethnic Danes, Vikings.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207164451	The next question is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207164455	After all, the Blue Block has half a day to revise the text, I assume. What is the problem here is this sentence which states that it is the Folketing's view that Danes should not be in minorities in residential areas in Denmark. So there are no facts to establish whether this is correct for Brøndby Strand. The first sentence says that it is recorded in our statistics that there are over 50%. with non-Western background. Period. That's right. Then there are some of the citizens who have a different background, who have Danish citizenship, who are perhaps second- or third-generation immigrants with Turkish backgrounds. All of a sudden, you try to make it a problem. The phrase "the Danish Parliament's opinion" is that Danes should not be in a minority in residential areas in Denmark. Maybe somebody read this text. It may not be many. But I think we should adopt something that we can vouch for. After all, this helps to divide society and hit the Danes who have a different ethnic background from the pink Danish.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207164558	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207164600	There are some here who choose to read it in a certain way. The point of the text is to say that the best and best way to integrate is to live in an area where you are in a minority, if you have a different ethnic background or a different religious background than the majority. The majority of the text is so Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207164625	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207164627	I hope the rapporteur can see the nuance of that. This helps to put some Danes in a bad light. They consider themselves Danes, but have roots in other countries. I do not think it is fair that in this Parliament we should take it so lightly and adopt something to please the Danish People's Party. I think it is really bad style if you cannot make some proposals for adoption that hold water. It is quite fine that we express something political about which we may disagree, but there is no reason to put this distance to the Danes, who have a different ethnic background from the pear Danish.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207164703	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207164705	Now take the bookseller from Brønshøj, who has been convicted of terror. He's on paper Dane, but he's not at all someone who expresses loyalty or belonging to this society. He flirts with jihadist ideologies. It may be that you will define him as Dane; I will not.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207164740	I'm just reminding you that we're not using you as an indictment. The next question is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207164752	Thank you. If it can be misunderstood and that is quite clear, because some people in here read it in a different way from the rapporteur, and I have to say that I read it in a different way from him, I think it is an unnecessary division, and I would really just recommend that you look through the text again, because I hear that the rapporteur is not interested in it being read in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207164815	Before I give the floor to the rapporteur, I would like to point out that the proposal under discussion cannot be changed, but it can be withdrawn. It's just that you don't get any further into that discussion now. Those are the rules. There's no need to spend too much time on it. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207164835	I simply think it is so comical that it is only now being remembered that there is something that one would like to have formulated differently. The questioner was up on the platform just now. Why wasn't that mentioned? Why now? Because someone mentions it, it suddenly becomes a subject. It is deliberately misinterpreted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207164858	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207164900	I mean, what I talked about in my rapporteur's speech was precisely the opportunity to meet each other, the opportunity to cross-country, open residential areas, etc. etc. I haven't been paying any attention to this. However, the rapporteur himself said on the platform that there are obviously some who read it wrong. I just suggest that if it can be read wrong, and it can be read wrong, then I think we should consider doing something about it. Then I do not know the details of whether this is possible at all. I find it regrettable if it is not in line with the rapporteur's own position. I'm told it's not.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207164938	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207164940	It is not, but there are some who choose to interpret it in a certain way, in the wrong direction. I disagree with that. However, it is rather unbelievable that one should go up and give a rapporteur's speech without having read the proposal for adoption and remembering it here at the end of the day. I think that is unbelievable.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207164958	In doing so, we thank the rapporteur and give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207165012	Thank you. I don't have to make a long speech. I've kind of made a long speech. I just want to say that I think the debate today most of all reflects the fact that there is a big difference between how we see the world from blue block to red block. I would just like to say that when I hear representatives of the red parties, I think there is a wonderful painting being painted too. It is a magnificent painting that I simply cannot recognize. However, I am glad that there is at least one party in the red bloc, namely the Social Democracy, which has, after all, voted in favour of a number of the restrictions that we have implemented. Of course, not all of them, and unfortunately not one of the best things to do, are the incentives that make it quicker and easier for us to get more people into the labour market. And that is what it is all about when it comes to integration. It is not really to make any long speech, but more to make me available if anyone has any questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207165127	It looks like it's very nice, because it's there. Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207165132	Thank you. Mrs Laura Lindahl said in her speech that the asylum freeze had now been abandoned in return for a European solution. Then I read here today in The Guardian that Zoltán Kovács, the Hungarian Government's spokesman, indicates that Hungary will now put forward a proposal to the Minister's colleagues, and thus also to the Minister, that a decision will be taken at European level to intercept the asylum seekers who come to Europe and keep them in camps where they cannot move freely. What does the Minister for Integration think of that proposal? Is this a good proposal that Zoltán Kovács has made and to which the Hungarian Government will present the Minister and the Minister's colleagues?
ParlaMint-DK_20170207165234	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207165237	I can say quite clearly that I am not going to deal with such a proposal now. It would also be a little strange to do so, since it is now Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, who is presenting it here and who has read it in The Guardian, who has then heard a spokesman from the Hungarian Government say that there is at some point a proposal coming from a Hungarian minister. I think we are simply so far out of line that the risk that there may be nuances that have been lost or that there are simply things that are not disclosed in this is perhaps so great that it is best not to comment on it now.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207165316	At least we're a long way from Brøndby, let's say. Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207165320	Well, we are not, because it is precisely about how we limit immigration to Denmark and how we avoid the situation that we have in Brøndby Strand. But then we forget about Zoltán Kovács, and then I just ask the Minister: does the Minister think that the real thing would be that asylum seekers coming to Europe were placed in a place where they could not move freely in society? Nothing about Kovács or Hungary or anything just: does the Minister think this is a good idea?
ParlaMint-DK_20170207165350	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207165352	I would like to see fewer people coming to Europe to seek asylum, and that is my starting point. I had hoped that I would share that with Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, that is, that there were fewer people coming to Europe, both refugees and migrants. But let us take them under one: asylum seekers. So that is the starting point I have, and that is the starting point from which the government also works.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207165414	Then it's mr. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207165418	Thank you. I would also like to thank you for agreeing on a proposal for adoption, which calls for more austerity in the area of asylum and aliens. That is, of course, a very good thing. And we in the Danish People's Party would like to get started as soon as possible. After all, we have drawn up a financial law agreement which is quite good, and that is where we need to roll out the tightening-up provided for in the financial law agreement. When does the government think that there is a need for new austerity in the field of foreigners? That is, of course, what is being proposed in the proposal for adoption and the sooner, the better.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207165449	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207165451	Let me put it this way: I think, first of all, that we should get the things that lie in the Financial Law agreement that we have agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207165459	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207165501	Now, of course, we must be careful about prejudices about the opposite sex, but I have heard that women are good at multitasking, and that is why it might as well be that the Minister could overcome both of them, i.e. both to roll out the austerity that we agree on, and at the same time also to start preparing for new measures that we do not agree on at the present time, but which we could of course sit down and see if we could not find a common solution for. And that is simply because it is urgent. There are other areas in which it must be assumed that it is going in the direction of Danes coming into the minority, which is why the country needs both the measures we agree on and new measures to be taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207165539	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207165541	Yes, well, I can only speak for myself, but I think I should be able to multitask. But I still consider it the greatest task for the moment to get the things through the Folketing that we have already agreed with each other so that we can get it adopted and put it into practice.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207165601	The next question is Mr. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207165605	Thank you. When I voted door bells in Brøndby Strand, I also wondered a little that the composition of the residents was not good, and when I have visited the local primary school, I have thought the same thing. Although they are doing an excellent job, I can see that it is not good for a school when so many people have their roots in a non-Western country. We are pleased that this is also reflected in the motion for a resolution tabled by four parties in this Parliament. When we cannot vote in favour of the proposal, it is because of the sentence that says that it is the Folketing's view that Danes should not be in minorities in residential areas in Denmark, because it sends the signal that all the people I know in Brøndby Strand, whom I consider to be Danes, but who are descendants, are not Danes. Does it not agree with the Social Democrats and the government that we must demand of those who come to our country that they reach out for the Danish values and become Danes? And is it not exactly the opposite that happens with this proposal for adoption, namely that we slam the door in their head and say that whatever they do, they will be regarded by the majority of the Folketing as something other than Danes? I know that it may seem a bit like details or whatever it is called, but the reason why I am speaking is that I think it is a rather violent signal that a majority in the Danish Parliament says that there are areas in Denmark where the Danes are not in the majority. Could it not be considered simply to withdraw this proposal for adoption?
ParlaMint-DK_20170207165735	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207165737	No, I can guarantee you that we cannot consider no, I can guarantee the rapporteur for that; after so many years in the Folketing I should have learned it. I can guarantee that, sir. Mattias Tesfaye for not doing it. It is a problem, no matter how you turn and turn it, that there are areas in Denmark where, for example, there are areas in Denmark. This is not the case for Western immigrants, who may well have Danish citizenship for some, but who have not yet taken Denmark into account. That is a huge problem, and that is what the opposition is totally ignoring today in their eagerness to try to find some tiny point in the proposal for adoption. It is only in the end that this has become a huge problem instead of dealing with the major problems we have, namely that there are areas in Denmark, among other things. Brøndby Strand, where Danish values do not necessarily prevail everywhere, i.e. the Danish values of freedom, the foundation of values of freedom that generations before us have laid. That is a problem, and I think it should actually be tackled instead of starting to mess with this and starting to interpret something that a majority in the Danish Parliament will adopt here the day after tomorrow.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207165854	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207165856	Now it is not something that has come under way in the debate. This is something that I brought to the attention of the rapporteur of the Left yesterday and which I also mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, because I think it is important. I think it is important to be able to stand up for a group of young people in Brøndby Strand, because I can hear that there are some of them who sit and mess up Denmark and can tell them that now they simply have to keep quiet, and then they have to look at all the many people who can work in this society, who can get a job that does not whine over the fact that they are constantly being discriminated against, who are learning Danish, who are seeking Danish citizenship, who are taking Denmark to heart, and who are now being regarded as Danes. What is absolutely essential if we are to succeed in integration is to have the opportunity that it dies. I don't think it's indifference. I think this is absolutely central, and that is why I have said it in my rapporteur's speech, and that is why I have asked all the rapporteurs along the way. And I am a little frightened that the rapporteurs for four parties are now saying that there are areas in Denmark where the Danes are in the minority. But what areas? There is no area in Denmark where the Danes are in the minority. There are plenty of people with Danish citizenship who are not near being Danes because they have not embraced the Danish culture and values. We fully agree with that. But we have to be able to say that even if you are a descendant of immigrants, you can be a Dane. It is absolutely crucial for integration, and that is why it is completely missed and rather violent that a majority in the Danish Parliament says the opposite if you ask me.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207170023	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207170025	I can only say that I totally disagree with that. Now it's actually not sir. Mattias Tesfaye I shall be the first to say that I am referring to here with regard to the debate in this Chamber. But it's only something that Enhedslisten remembered when Mr. Naser Khader came on the platform. The alternative came to mind only when Mr. Naser Khader came to the platform that exactly this is a problem instead of simply concentrating on what this is about, namely that there are residential areas in Denmark where we are actually having difficulty moving around. Isn't that a problem? That's a huge problem, as I see it. It is also a huge problem that we have areas in Denmark where it is precisely not the Danish set of values that prevails, where we do not respect the values of freedom, equality and the foundation that generations before us have laid.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207170114	The next question is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207170118	I think it is rather a pity that you do not just write what you think in such a proposal for adoption. And I also think it would be a good thing if we had professional evidence that what is written there is correct. For it is this sentence that causes problems: It is the Folketing's view that the Danes should not be in the minority in residential areas in Denmark. Blue block could just write that you think it is a problem if there is more than 50 per cent in a residential area. with non-Western background. So, the minister has no evidence to say how many Danes there are in Brøndby Strand, not with the definition that is being spoken like it is. Because it is obviously not enough to have a Danish passport, it is obviously not enough to be a Danish citizen. And I think that you will be stepping on some of the young people who have quietly integrated into Danish society. When you have to draw examples here, you get a bookseller from Brøndby drawn out as an example. Yeah, I guess there aren't many of them in Brøndby Beach. But what about all the people who just get up every morning and go to work?
ParlaMint-DK_20170207170224	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207170225	Well, I just have to say that we share our views, and I am quite simply very, very far from the way Enhedslisten sees this. I have also heard the tribute of the multicultural society that Enhedslisten stands for, and I can only say that I think it is a huge problem. Now it was mentioned that there are some who, like, trample others underfoot. I think it is a huge problem that people live in Denmark, also with Danish citizenship, who trample the Danish values underfoot and do not conform to them, do not respect them, do not accept them, do not comply with them. Then I just want to say that it is precisely the bookseller from Brønshøj we are talking about, and not the bookseller from Brøndby. And I can say it's Sam Mansour we're talking about a convicted terrorist.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207170321	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207170323	Then it is quite incomprehensible why he should be dragged into a case about Brøndby Strand. Finally, I would like to welcome the fact that the Minister has been devalued, that the Minister is no longer the Minister for Housing. For what we have been able to see over the last year and a half has not been a real interest in the residential area. And now there is a chance that the new minister will try to do better in this area. I would like to welcome that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207170348	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207170348-2	Well, I have a feeling that Enhedslisten is happy every time there is a minister from the bourgeois camp who is being devalued in one way or another. And the ultimate must be that we are not there at all anymore, but that it is some others who come to the dish. But it is simply the beauty of politics that one can discuss it. No, it doesn't really matter when you discuss the bookseller from Brønshøj, Sam Mansour, because it's about the fact that he has actually acquired Danish citizenship without even relying on the Danish set of values. That's what this is all about. It is a very, very fundamental discussion and it could be good if the Enhedslisten too might start to take an interest in that part of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207170431	We thank the Minister. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207170443	Thank you for that and thank you for the debate. I understand from what has been said up here, and also from the proposal for adoption, which a majority is behind, which I would like to sign for the government to carry out more austerity. We certainly welcome this from the Danish People's Party. I have also noted that the government will introduce more profit principles, a targeted fight with parallel societies. We welcome all of this. We look forward to working together on those things. Let us finally get it started as soon as possible, and let us have more of that kind of thing. We will certainly press on from the Danish People's Party. In addition to talking about limiting the influx to the country, we must of course also work on repatriations, not because we can or have to return everyone, but some certainly have to go home, and it is also a work that has been done so little and which has also been set in motion to intensify in connection with the agreement on the Finance Act for 2017. Of course, we must continue to look at this. Then, as I said, we must also look at new austerity measures. It should not just be the words. We also need to see action so that we can get the number down even further. It is crucial that we do not lose focus in this House, as I think some people have done in today's debate. We need to have a fight with the fear of touching new significant measures that would very much like to reduce non-western immigration to this country. We can see that too many immigrants and descendants of immigrants do not take Danishism into account, do not take Danish culture into account, do not take traditions into account, and we can see that the Danes are in a minority in some areas of Denmark. From the point of view of the Danish People's Party, this is a completely disastrous development, for those who live there with an immigrant background have very little chance of being integrated and adapted to Danish society when they are in a place where the Danes are in a minority and where Danish culture thus also takes up less space. This is a development to which we must respond and, in order to ensure the cohesion of society, we must stand firm on Danish culture. That is simply so crucial. We have raised this debate on the part of the Danish People's Party because we wanted the Folketing and the government to make it very clear that it is a wrong development when Danes come into minorities in their own country in certain areas and that there is a need for more tightening of asylum and immigration policy. It will take a few days, and then the Danish Parliament and the government will probably report it when they back on the proposal for adoption made here today by the Danish People's Party, the Left, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives. I'll sign for that. Thank you for the debate. I think it has been a very good debate and we are, of course, following up on it by the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207170719	Thank you. And there is one brief comment from Mr. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207170724	Thank you. I can say that we in the Social Democratic Party are also very much looking forward to the announced legislative changes, among others. in the area of asylum. We hope that something can be put forward to reduce the number of new residence permits for Denmark. So we look forward to that discussion too. But the reason why I take the floor is that I would like to hear what the Danish People's Party is thinking about the sentence that I have referred to a number of times: "It is the Danish Parliament's view that Danes should not be in minorities in residential areas in Denmark. Now the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party mentions it again from the platform, i.e. that the Danes are in a minority in Brøndby Strand. Well, I have to get it right. Does the Danish People's Party believe that there is a minority of Danes in Brøndby Strand?
ParlaMint-DK_20170207170816	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207170817	When you look at the statistics, they show it, so the answer has to be yes. And we also believe that this is true elsewhere. I think it is quite unproblematic that a proposal for adoption writes: "It is Parliament's view that Danes should not be in the minority in residential areas in Denmark. In fact, I think it would be problematic if Parliament could not come together on such a proposal for adoption and such a text. I do not understand that there are parties in here who may be against that sentence. It is common sense, of course, that we should not have areas in Denmark where Danes are in minorities and we have the problem that we need to address.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207170858	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207170900	Well, I very much agree that there should not be areas where the Danes are in the minority. I very, very much agree with that. As a citizen of a non-profit residential area in the West, I am very much in favour of the fact that there is always a majority of Danes. I'll even go further than that. I would say that there must be a majority of people with a family roots in Denmark, so that there is broad Danish culture, as stated in our proposal for integration works best when the Danish culture is the supporter of all residential areas in Denmark. It is, in fact, a more forceful formulation than the one contained in your text. But what I am asking is whether it is the view of the Danish People's Party that in Brøndby Strand there is a minority of Danes? I know that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party was once on a television programme and was discussing with a student council chairman whether he was a Dane, and I could understand from the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party at the time that he could not answer that question, because he did not know the person concerned. That's so fair. The rapporteur should not be hanged out for this. But in this case we are in a situation where we know that a significant majority of Brøndby Strand's citizens are Danish citizens. I am well aware that not all of them can be regarded as Danes, but I think it is quite violent if the Folketing says that a majority of the citizens of Brøndby Strand are not Danes. That is, of course, the same as saying what the rapporteur said to the student council chairman, just to a whole town.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207171028	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207171029	I maintain what I have said, so the answer is still gone, yes. When we discuss these things, we have to start from statistics, we have to start from the figures in this area. And from that point of view, we must take the discussion, and then we must look at it ourselves in the light of our personal experiences and the impression we have of a particular area. And when all these things are put together, I think you have to say that you don't exactly get overwhelmed by Danishness when you move around Brøndby Strand. You don't. I don't think it's taking your mouth too full to make that claim. And that's how I feel when I move around elsewhere in Denmark. I think that's sad. It doesn't change the fact that there can easily be people in Brøndby Strand who have a non-western background and who are Danish. But we have to start from statistics, we have to start from the figures in this area and, of course, combine it with our own information when we have a discussion like this. I therefore find it very unproblematic that Parliament's concern is that there are areas in Denmark where the proportion of immigrants and descendants from non-western countries is over 50 per cent, and that it is the Folketing's view that Danes should not be in minorities in residential areas in Denmark, and therefore the Folketing urges the government to work with a political objective of further tightening up asylum and immigration policy. I think that is incredibly important, and I should not hide the fact that I think it is a good thing that, after all, it will come out of today's debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207171151	One more question just appeared. It's sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207171157	I would actually like to know how many of the Danes who live in Brøndby Strand, whom the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party does not count as Danes, because if the rapporteur does not know, the rapporteur does not know whether the second sentence is correct.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207171216	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207171217	That question did not make much sense to me, I must honestly admit. It may make sense for the Enhedslisten, but we are also in different parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207171228	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207171230	It does not seem to burden the rapporteur that it is not factually correct what is adopted here in the Folketing when you have a majority. I really think that we should go for this and not just count mandates and come to the conclusion that we have a majority.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207171240	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207171241	However, what is stated in the proposal for adoption is correct. I mean, I think it's weird that you have a debate where it's as if there's some parties in here that function as such detached from reality. We have areas in Denmark and it may as well be that this is why there is a little distance between us where Danish culture is under pressure and where you get the perception when you move into the areas that you as a Dane are in the minority. That's a problem. And if you do not understand and manage politically to deal with the problem and understand the frustrations that are in the population, then frustrations will grow on both sides, and I do not think that is good either for Danes or for immigrants for that matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207171323	Thank you. As no one else has asked to speak, the negotiations have ended. The vote on the proposals for adoption submitted and quite thoroughly debated will not take place until Thursday 9 February 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20170207171339	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 8 February 2017 kl. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
