ParlaMint-DK_20171102100019	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Jeppe Jakobsen (DF) and others.: Question No. F 8 (What information can the Minister provide on the problems and challenges identified in the area of the elderly, and will the Minister explain below why the government's legislative programme does not propose improvements in the area of the elderly so that the Danes can meet their old age safely?). Nikolaj Villumsen (EL), Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT), Martin Lidegaard (RV) and Holger K. Nielsen (SF): Request no. F 9 (In the light of UN Security Council Resolution 2334 of December 2016 and new information on investments by Danish pension funds, investment funds and municipalities in companies with illegal settlement activities, what will the government do to advise and help private actors and municipalities to follow the guidance published by Denmark and other EU countries and to comply with their international obligations described in the UN Guidelines on Human Rights and Occupation?). Christian Langballe (DF) and others: Question No. F 10 (Will the Prime Minister explain the government's policy of value, focusing on the challenges of immigration that push/force the Danes to change their way of life and behavior and correct immigration for the sake of immigrants?). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Minister for Justice (Søren Pape Poulsen) has informed me that he wishes to do so pursuant to Rule 19 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 to provide the Folketing with a written statement on the state of play of the Danish police in relation to Europol. R 4). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in www.folkingstidende.dk. The statement will be debated on Thursday, 16 November 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102100139	The debate is open, and the first rapporteur is the Socialist rapporteur, Mr President. Per Husted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102100210	Thank you for the floor. With L 40 we determine how fees for the administration of the Danish Energy Agency and the Danish Energy Agency are to be made. In short, the only thing that happens is that there is a redistribution between companies within electricity grid companies, but from the citizens' point of view it should be cost-neutral, as the fees have so far been paid directly to Energinet.dk, which has subsequently passed on the costs. In the consultation answers, nothing has come up that can cause serious concerns. There are proposals to focus on the fact that L 40 does not mean extra administrative costs, and it must be estimated that it is quite limited, but we must of course focus on it in the subsequent treatment. In the case-file we can also see that there has been a focus on it and that it has been taken into account. The consultation answers have thus not given much cause for comment, and from the point of view of the Social Democrats we can support the proposal and we look forward to the further work on L 40. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102100320	We thank the rapporteur, there are no brief comments. We go further in the rapporteur's line, and this is for the Danish People's Party's rapporteur, Claus Kvist Hansen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102100332	Thank you. The draft law, which we are considering today, contains a number of detailed proposals for amendments to the provisions of a number of laws allowing the Minister and the Energy Inspectorate to charge and lay down rules on the payment of fees for administrative processing, or, to put it bluntly, to provide for the legal basis for the Danish Energy Inspectorate to charge fees for its services to companies which have to be treated by the authorities of them. The concept is that the Danish Energy Agency finances its business through user charges, where companies pay for the costs associated with the handling of their case. We find this in the Danish People's Party makes sense. The bill follows on from an earlier amendment to the law, which provided for a statutory amount to be collected. We also note that the scheme gives the Energy Regulatory Authority room to give priority to resources for areas where there is an additional need over the year. At the same time, we welcome the fact that, according to the draft law, the companies in each supply sector must each bear the associated costs for carrying out the regulatory tasks. Finally, the draft law extends the Minister's supervision of Energinet, which is also welcomed by the Danish People's Party. The Danish People's Party can support the proposed bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102100444	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and move on to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mrs Marianne Bredal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102100458	Thank you. As the previous rapporteurs have mentioned, we propose, with Bill L 40, to ensure the legal basis for charging for the operation and assignment of the Danish Energy Agency, as well as certain tasks within the Danish Energy Agency. Until now, Energinet has been responsible for both the authority processing of Energinet itself and the authority processing of other companies such as network companies. Bill L 40 redistributes funding so that companies pay fees in accordance with the services they receive themselves. In this way, we achieve a durable payment model that guarantees clarity about the financing of the tasks carried out by the Danish Energy Agency and the Danish Energy Agency. Against this background, of course, the Left supports L 40.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102100550	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and we shall proceed to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102100558	Thank you. It is, of course, a small bill that moves a little on some authority treatment and some energy charges, and Enhedslisten can agree to that. And Enhedslisten looks forward to major legislative proposals that can help to contribute to sustainable change and the solution to global climate problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102100619	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. We move on to the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Carsten Bach. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102100626	Perhaps one might wonder a little bit about the fact that the fees charged to companies have not so far been in line with the benefits they then receive, and therefore it is certainly reasonable that this dispute should now be corrected. All in all, it is difficult to be opposed to this being corrected and to the fact that in future practice will be consistent with the legal framework that is now in place, which is why the Liberal Alliance is of course also supporting the proposal. And I'd like to say hello to my colleague, sir. Orla Østerby of the Conservative People's Party and say that the Conservative People's Party also supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102100712	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. We shall move on to the rapporteur of the alternative, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Nikolai Amstrup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102100724	As has been said, the proposal is an amendment to the rules for the collection of fees for the payment of regulatory tasks. I'm not the energy rapporteur, but I've brought that message from Mr. Christian Poll, that we are, as a starting point, positive about the proposal, but that we have some questions we will ask in committee as to whether the oil industry should be involved in a closer and faster way. So I expect that to be the case, sir. Christian Poll brings forward the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102100800	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. We move on to the Radical Left rapporteur. It's sir. Martin Lidegaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102100808	Thank you, President. The former rapporteurs have explained the content of the proposal, and we also consider it sensible to have a clear and precise and transparent charging policy in this area and therefore also support the legislative proposal. And I should like to welcome the rapporteur of the Socialist People's Party and say that they are doing the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102100826	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. I do not see any more rapporteurs, and then we go to the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102100840	Thank you, President, and thank the rapporteurs for their comments on the draft law. The main purpose of the draft law is to ensure the legal basis for a permanent payment model for financing the operation and assignment of the Danish Energy Agency and certain tasks within the Danish Energy Agency. This payment model ensures that companies pay fees in accordance with the services they receive. This agreement has not so far been there and it is important that we get it right. These are tasks which are largely regulated and subject to directives. At the same time, the Energy Regulatory Authority solves important tasks for the sectors. It is therefore essential that we ensure clarity about funding in the future. Overall, the draft law is not expected to bring about a change in consumer prices, either in the electricity or gas sectors, but there will be a redistribution of costs in the electricity and gas sectors respectively. Energy networks will see a reduction in costs, while distribution companies and trading companies will be charged more. The draft law also provides for a minor extension of the supervision of Energinet. In future, it will be necessary not only to ensure that Energinet complies with Danish legislation, but also that it complies with the rules of EU regulations. Enlargement is due to the fact that the Commission has adopted a number of new regulations containing direct obligations for Energy Networks. The bill and related notices are planned to enter into force on 1 January 2018. I welcome the interest expressed in the draft law here in Things, and I look forward to the continued discussion on the individual elements of the draft law in the Committee on Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs. With these comments, I should like to ask for a favourable treatment of the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102101027	Thank you, Minister. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102101043	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is the Social Democrats' rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Per Husted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102101111	Thank you to the President-in-Office for the floor. The overall purpose of L 66 is to create the necessary legislation so that a number of authority tasks can be transferred from Energinet.dk to the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate. The tasks include some management of support for renewable energy and related regulatory tasks. In addition, there are a number of minor changes. Among other things: it is proposed that the Minister be empowered to change the name from Energinet.dk to Energinet.dk. I can see that the Minister has already used that power, and when we look at the notes on the law, we see that there is consistently Energinet instead of Energinet.dk. It has no practical significance for the bill, so we can probably live with it. The transfer of regulatory tasks is fully in line with the recommendations contained in the 2014 report of the Committee on Electricity Regulation and is also fully in line with the 2016 decision on the abolition of the PSO tax. A number of consultation responses have been received from stakeholders in this area and there are no significant objections, but we did, however, come across a single objection which we think should be clarified. It is in the consultation answer from Agriculture & Food that it points out that the beneficiaries of the RES support must not experience a deterioration in the processing process when tasks are moved and that no beneficiaries of the aid are squeezed. That is a very good and relevant consideration and we fully agree with it. I can't imagine anyone disagreeing with that. So from the point of view of the present and with the small call for us to look at the future of the debate and see if there are any drawbacks, we support the Social Democrats on the subject of L 66, and we look forward to further work on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102101305	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. We shall now proceed to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr Seligman. Jan Rytkjær Callesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102101313	Thank you, sir. President. The bill is about a number of authority tasks being transferred from Energinet to the Ministry of Energy; in practice they are placed in the Danish Energy Agency. This happens because it is most natural that the authority tasks belong there and not as before in Energinet.dk, which is primarily created as an operating organisation to operate the overall energy network. The draft law also follows up the recommendation of the El Regulatory Committee as of 1 December 2014 to increase the management quality of Energinet.dk's regulatory tasks, which differ from Energinet.dk's traditional core tasks as transmission and system operators. So in the Danish People's Party we look very positively at this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102101409	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. We move on to the rapporteur of the Left and that is Mrs Marianne Bredal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102101421	Thank you. Purpose of Bill No. L 66 is to move tasks regarding support for renewable energy from Energinet to the Danish Energy Agency. In this way, support for renewable energy from the PSO tax can become part of the Finance Act, which should be seen in the continuation of the political agreement on the gradual abolition of the PSO tax. In addition, it is of course also gratifying that Energinet will thus have the opportunity to strengthen its core tasks. It is extremely important that we make use of the unique efficiency potential of the supply sector, as highlighted in the government's supply strategy. It meets the bill by allowing an administrative authority such as the Danish Energy Agency to deal with the support schemes, leaving room for Energinet to take care of its core tasks. The draft law is therefore an expression of an amended and more sensible division of tasks, and therefore the motion is supported by the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102101519	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. We move on to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102101529	It is, of course, a draft law which is almost as boring as what we were discussing just now. However, I have one thing to say about the draft law, which I think is a little out of order, because this is the question of giving the Ministry more authority and then it is not clear. It says: "The acquisition of the tasks is expected to be delegated to the Danish Energy Agency...·. I really think that in such cases, where you take some power and give it over to a ministry, it would actually be an advantage to get it done quite precisely in terms of how the ministry wants to enforce it. So I really think it would be nice to clarify whether this is just a loose plan or whether it is the Danish Energy Agency that is supposed to take over this task. Generally speaking, we are critical of just authorising ministers to do as much as possible, so I think it is essential to have clarity on this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102101617	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. We move on to the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Carsten Bach. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102101624	Thank you. After all, things are moving very fast here in the Parliamentary Chamber today. As we have heard from the other rapporteurs before, the draft law, L 66, which we are now discussing in a hurry, will move the administration of the PRS aid scheme from Energinet to the Danish Energy Agency, and with the phasing out of the PRS tax it makes sense to let Energinet concentrate on its tasks and let the Danish Energy Agency handle the administration of the aid schemes. It is not quite a natural division of tasks to have companies like Energinet administer a public aid scheme, and that is why the Liberal Alliance also supports the bill here, of course. As with the previous proposal, I should like to welcome the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mr Conservatives. Orla Østerby, and say that the Conservative People's Party also supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102101714	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. We shall move on to the rapporteur of the alternative, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Nikolai Amstrup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102101720	Thank you very much. As has been said, the bill here takes some management tasks back to the Ministry and the Board, and that is what we think in the Alternative is also the right division of tasks, so we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102101738	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. We move on to the Radical Left's rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Martin Lidegaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102101750	This bill too can be supported by the Radical Left. This is both in line with the recommendations made by the Committee on Energy, Research and Technology and with the agreement on the PSO that we are part of. I should like to welcome the Socialist People's Party and say that they also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102101806	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we have finished the rapporteur's series and we are giving the floor to the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102101817	Thank you for that, President, and also thank you for the rapporteurs' comments on the draft law. The main purpose of the bill is to move the administration of the PRS support schemes from Energinet to the Danish Energy Agency. The change in the division of tasks must be seen in the light of the political agreement on the gradual abolition of the PSO tax. In the past, support for renewable energy has been financed through surcharges, which were charged by Energinet above the electricity price. It was therefore obvious to leave the responsibility for the support administration with Energinet. With the political agreement on the phasing-out of the PSO scheme, renewable energy will gradually be transferred to support by the Finance Act. It is therefore more logical to leave responsibility for support management and payment with the Danish Energy Agency as energy authority. At the same time, I am pleased that another milestone in the government's supply strategy is being followed up here. By moving these authority tasks to the Danish Energy Agency, Energinet can strengthen their focus on the social core tasks. I would like to stress that there are no plans for the transfer of tasks to bring about substantive changes in the current PRS support schemes. Aid schemes shall be managed in accordance with the applicable regulations in this field. The draft law therefore reflects the change in the division of tasks and not new rules on support for renewable energy. The draft law has usually been consulted in a wide range and has given rise to very few comments. I welcome the interest expressed in the draft law here in Things today. I look forward to continuing discussions on the individual elements of the draft law in the Committee on Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs. With these comments, I should like to ask for a favourable treatment of the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102101957	Thank you, Minister. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102102014	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Simon Kollerup of the Social Democratic Party. Now the two previous cases have gone exceptionally fast and, in view of this, we are just taking a short humanitarian break in five minutes, as I can see that there are several rapporteurs on the matter who have not yet arrived but are on the way. We owe this in order to give the matter the usual good treatment in the right order. So we are taking a short humanitarian break in five minutes, given that the previous cases have gone as fast as they are.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102102421	We'll resume the meeting. We took a short humanitarian break so that we could just be sure that all the rapporteurs were back together because the two previous cases were dealt with as quickly as they were. This is the opening of the debate, and we are giving the floor to the first rapporteur, and that is the Socialist rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Simon Kollerup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102102445	Thank you. The draft law we are dealing with today must empower the Minister for Fisheries, Gender and Nordic Cooperation to lay down rules to help ensure full transparency in the ownership of commercial fishing companies. This is a tightening of the concentration rules, which means that fishermen will have more difficulty cheating on the weight when it comes to determining how many fishing quotas they actually own. As the rules are today, there are cases where the Danish Fisheries Authority does not necessarily have knowledge of ownership in up to one third of a commercial fishing company. With the amendment of the law, it will be possible to impose requirements for full registration, which will give full transparency to the circle of persons and ownership of the commercial fishing companies. It was a broad Parliament which, at the end of last year, entered into an ambitious growth and development package for Danish fisheries, and it is the package that is the basis for the legislative proposal that we are discussing today. The fisheries package was launched and implemented because we had seen a high concentration of fishing quotas, which means that fishing quotas have accumulated in too few hands. The concentration of fishing quotas is problematic because it creates some very powerful players • those who are called quota kings in the media who gain a very large and dominant influence on the market, of which they are part. They have a great influence on the local labour market, they have a great influence on the pricing of sales and purchases and on rental prices, and are in general an unhealthy element of a good fisheries policy. Today's draft law does not completely stop quota kings, but we in the Socialist Group believe that it is an important step down the road that makes up for quota kings. At the same time, we are negotiating an ambitious quota-king package, a quota-concentration package, with the other parties in the Folketing, and we look forward, of course, to being able to take further action in this context and put an effective end to the unhealthy elements of Danish fishing so that we can have a healthy, diverse fisheries with room for both the big and the small fishermen. So the Social Democratic Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102102720	We thank the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and we move on to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. It's sir. Ib Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102102737	Thank you. The last year, of course, we have had a wide-ranging debate on fisheries. It's been centralized for the past year. However, this is the first time we have to discuss this from the platform. This will probably not be the big debate, because there is a great deal of agreement on this point which has been going on for a long time, namely that the last third should be reported, so that we have more transparency in quota concentrations and can get rid of the so-called quota kings. It must all end up with a better and more room for small fishermen so that they do not continue to be suffocated by the big, money-rich quota kings who are finally on the whole market. It's a bill that runs for itself. We are currently negotiating a larger package, a package that will really do something about quota concentration. And we have been promised that we will be done with this at the end of November, so that we can go to Christmas and know that we have now tightened the yarn, not so that it suffocates, but so that it is at least tight enough, so that there can also be a multitude of fishing activities in Denmark in the future. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102102909	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and then we go to the Left rapporteur, Mrs Marianne Bredal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102102922	Since the rapporteur of the Left is on the chair, I have taken over the rapporteur's speech here. There has been a great deal of focus on the concentration of fishing quotas in very few hands. With the legislative proposal we are now considering, the lack of transparency that has been part of the problem will be brought to an end. There will now be full transparency about the ownership of fishing quotas, and thus the concentration of fishing quotas in a few hands can be countered. The legislation in force means that up to one third of a fishing company may be owned by non-commercial fishermen. There is not full transparency about that, and this has created a number of inappropriate things. The bill empowers the Minister to ensure full transparency of ownership. The fishing industry is an important industry for Denmark, and the industry helps to earn many export earnings home to Denmark. At the same time, it is a profession subject to a high level of regulation, particularly in relation to the quota system. When we, as legislators, have imposed very strict regulations on a profession, there is also a legitimate expectation that the rules are the same for everyone and that the allocation of quotas is done in a fair way. That is why it is important that there is full transparency in how quotas are allocated. The Left sees it as very important that there is full confidence that fishing quotas are distributed in a fair and transparent manner and therefore votes in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102103044	Thank you to the rapporteur and, as there are no brief comments, we go further in the rapporteur's line. It's the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102103053	We think this is a good little suggestion. The Enhedslisten supports more openness about ownership in the fishing companies that fish our common fish, and we think it is very good if we come to have as much openness as possible, so that we can clearly see where the quotas are being circumvented and can prevent it. We are very much looking forward to more legislative proposals, because this is just a small corner of the fish package that we have helped implement. I have one question for something that is in the consultation note, because a derogation has been written in like this. And with the experience we have with existing derogations, I think we should be very careful about what kind of exemptions are granted. What is stated here in the consultation note is: the Ministry of Finance may state that the draft law does not provide for the possibility of regulating the quota ceilings as such, but that the processing of the obligation to provide information will be carried out in a legally sound manner; it would probably also be strange if there were the opposite, so that derogations may be made if there were legal grounds for doing so. I would very much like to clarify in the committee procedure whether it is the case to open a barn door to what should be said, after all, not to live out the spirit of this bill. I also think it might be exciting, when at some point we come to the end of dealing with these quota kings, that we could then also have some tranquillity and time to adopt legislative proposals that help to promote a different development in Danish fishing, that we promote the gentle, coastal fishing, and that we also have some legislative proposals that support it. We look forward to that very much. But we support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102103258	Thank you for that, there are no brief remarks. Then it's mr. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102103306	Thank you for that, President. Once the draft law, L 52, is adopted, it will give the Minister for Fisheries the power to draw up rules for a change in the obligation to provide information on the ownership of commercial fisheries. The legislative changes will ensure greater transparency in the ownership of commercial fishing companies. There should certainly be no doubt here that we in the Liberal Alliance have been pleased with the liberalisation of fisheries carried out years ago. It has saved an absolutely pressured profession from going to the bottom and has secured many jobs in the Danish port cities. With the adoption of the bill here, it is hoped that a little calm can be found again about the industry, so that fishermen can concentrate on fishing up the fish, their quotas allocate them, and earn money for Denmark and provide even more jobs for the Danish port towns. It has been estimated that the forthcoming change will prevent fishing quotas from gathering together on what some political parties at least see as too few hands, and countering possible straw-man arrangements, and therefore, of course, the Liberal Alliance also supports the proposal. I welcome the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party and say that the Conservative People's Party also supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102103440	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Nikolai Amstrup, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102103448	Thank you very much. As has been said, L 52 here is about creating greater transparency in ownership of fisheries. We see this as a small but absolutely necessary proposal in order both to counteract the extreme quota concentrations that have been and, above all, to prevent the rules from being circumvented. At the same time, in the alternative, we are basically pleased that the proposal here creates a greater degree of transparency, and that is what we need, including in fisheries. So the alternative supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102103528	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102103537	As several rapporteurs have said, this bill comes in and out of a really boring background. In fact, I had the pleasure, as a food rapporteur and Fisheries rapporteur, of negotiating the quota package which the then government carried out with the Danish People's Party, and in which the Radical Left was strongly opposed from the outset, together with the Social Democrats and several others, because all experts who understood this warned that exactly what happened would happen. And sometimes it's just so incredibly boring to be right. I am not standing here as rapporteur, but because our rapporteur cannot be present and, of course, we support this proposal because it is part of an absolutely necessary clean-up that we naturally want to take responsibility for. But I also have to say that it cannot stand alone. We expect the package on which the parties have agreed and which aims to achieve sustainable Danish fishing, which makes the absolute best and most jobs out of the fish that are now fish that means fishing on a sustainable basis and doing so in a way that neither destroys our seas nor undermines the future of future fishing generations. This work will be followed up zealously and carefully by radicals, because the rottenness that has emerged in the management of this system must not be repeated. It costs too much in our rural areas, it costs too much for our fishermen, and it costs too much for Danish sustainability.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102103712	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no one present from the SF, and the Conservatives are covered in. Then it is the Minister for Fisheries and Gender Equality. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102103735	Let me begin by welcoming the fact that the parties in the Parliamentary Chamber are supporting this bill, so thank you for your positive reception. The aim of the existing rules has so far been to ensure that professional fishermen who complied with the requirements of the Act, inter alia: In this context, it should be noted that the Commission's decision to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 93 (2) of the EC Treaty was based on Article 93 (3) of the EC Treaty and Article 93 (3) of the EC Treaty. However, within the last third, there has also been the possibility of mobilising other funds outside the fisheries sector. It is only possible for other capital to amount to up to one third of the capital of commercial fishing companies. The vast majority of commercial fishing companies are fully owned by commercial fishermen. However, in view of the current focus on quota concentration, we are now also agreed to have full transparency for those companies with other capital. This transparency across the entire ownership circle will in future allow a full insight into compliance with the rules on quota concentration in the event that there are underlying persons or companies who may have access to allowances. So again I would like to thank you for your positive reception. I would like the draft law to have a good reading in committee. I would like to say to the Fisheries Committee again later this afternoon, when we are just continuing the negotiations on the quota concentration in Danish fisheries.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102103917	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102103931	The debate is open, and it is first the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102103948	The proposers have proposed the introduction of full user charges for public interpreting services for foreigners after three years' stay in Denmark. The Danish People's Party has in the past tabled an almost identical motion for a resolution. It was in October last year, however, the requirement was then that it should apply even after two years' stay. Let me start by saying that I am positive about introducing user charges on interpretation to the extent that it makes any sense at all. In general, I believe that after a period in Denmark, when a massive offer of Danish education is made, one should be expected to have learned enough Danish to be able to do without an interpreter. Otherwise, it must continue to be possible to use an interpreter, but then it must be reasonable that you pay for it yourself. It should not be the case that there are citizens in Denmark who lean on the fact that there is lifelong access to free interpretation and therefore do not learn Danish. That simply cannot be done. We are therefore in the process of clarifying the area and what opportunities there are in fact for introducing user charges for interpreting services. In addition to consideration of user charges and fees for interpretation, the government has taken targeted initiatives to help foreigners who come to Denmark learn Danish as soon as possible. It should and must be a top priority to learn the language that helps you to move forward in employment and also take part in the ordinary Danish daily life: visits to the doctor, conversations at school, association life, yes, the ordinary Danish daily life. On 1 July 2017, a comprehensive reform of the entire Danish education offered came into force against the newly arrived foreigners. Here we encourage the training to be carried out as soon as possible after the individual foreigner has arrived in Denmark and that the teaching is made much more employment-oriented so that more people can get out quickly and use and further develop their Danish knowledge in the workplace. As I said from my chair, I fully agree that user charges for interpreting services should be introduced in those areas where this makes sense at all, but I must also be honest and say that there are areas where it is not possible to introduce payment for interpreting. The possibility of introducing user charges must therefore be thoroughly identified by area, and I can say that we are doing so. In the light of the above, we therefore call on the government to reject the proposal in its present form, and the reason is that there are both legal and administrative issues to be uncovered and, as I said, that an absolute demand for user charges for interpreting services cannot be made. However, I would like to stress once again that the government is in favour of looking at the interpretation area and that there is work to be done on concrete proposals as to where this will be possible. I certainly think that it is very good for integration and also only quite reasonable that you cannot get lifelong interpretation, but that, to the extent that you want interpretation, you have to pay for yourself after a number of years.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102104336	Sir. Martin Henriksen, a brief comment, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102104341	It's kind of a déjà vu, I think they say. I have heard this before, because, as the Minister rightly said, we had a discussion about a year ago when we had put forward a proposal from the Danish People's Party which was very similar to this one. There the Minister also said that the Minister was positive and that it was being thoroughly investigated. And I must at least commend the government for being very thorough, because it has been studied for a very, very long time now. That is why it could be incredibly interesting to find out because I know that there are a lot of Danes who find it difficult to understand why it is that you can practically get lifelong interpreting assistance in Denmark. So when does the Minister expect the government to be clear about what the government wants to introduce user charges on interpretation?
ParlaMint-DK_20171102104420	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102104423	First of all, I would like to say that I am also surprised that lifelong interpretation can be obtained in Denmark. I am simply puzzled. That is why I think it is absolutely necessary for us to have a look at this area. When the work we are dealing with now is finished, I will not, if I may say so, put my head on the block for today, but I can say that it is seriously meant. I think something needs to be done in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102104450	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102104453	But what are we talking about, Minister? Are we talking about another year? Could it take six months? Could it take two years? How long will it take for the Ministry and the government to clarify with themselves and with the official work whether user charges can be introduced for interpretation, how much user charges are to be introduced and in what areas of public administration? In other words, the Minister must be able to provide some kind of framework for when to expect to have a clear position, because we cannot continue to have a resolution on it in the Parliamentary Chamber, where we in the Danish People's Party say that we want user charges for interpretation, and the Minister says that in principle the Minister agrees with the Danish People's Party, but that one should just examine how and how and then nothing happens. Because if we both agree on that, there is a majority.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102104537	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102104540	Well, I hope that we will not be here in a year's time to discuss a similar resolution. I certainly don't.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102104546	Mrs Pernille Bendixen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102104548	Thank you. Will the Minister push this process so that we can speed it up and it can go a little faster so that we do not have to stand here again in a year and agree to agree, after which nothing else will happen?
ParlaMint-DK_20171102104600	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102104602	I can guarantee Mrs Pernille Bendixen that I will push for that. And I can say that this is actually something that is very close to my heart, because I simply do not think it is right that one can live in a country and so few, yes, lifelong interpretations. I simply think it is mad, and that certainly does not encourage the people who come to Denmark to learn the language. So yes, I can guarantee that this is an area where I will push.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102104629	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102104631	Would the Minister also be so kind as to send a written note to the committee so that we can see how far one is in the process so far and we can also have a timeframe for when the final proposal can be adopted?
ParlaMint-DK_20171102104643	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102104645	In other words, you are very welcome to ask questions through the channels that are normally used, and it is clear that I will respond readily to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102104657	Thank you, Minister. Then it's mr. Dan Jørgensen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102104707	Thank you. Last week I visited a restaurant in South Zealand, which has had good experience of hiring refugees, and there I also met a Syrian refugee who had only been in Denmark for two years, but who was already employed on completely equal terms with the other chefs on the spot, a very good and reputable dining place. He was happy to be there, and they were happy to have him. It is a success story, and I asked how it had happened and heard about the whole process. And what he said to me was that he had made himself clear when he came to Denmark that there are like two keys to doing well. The first is: Learn the language, learn Danish. The other one is get a job. It's just hard to get a job before you learn the language, so the first key is the most important. There is no doubt that, both for the sake of the people it is about, but also for the sake of our society, we must insist that foreigners coming to Denmark learn Danish. Therefore, I also understand, I should say, the intentions behind the proposal, but I am not quite sure I am. I do not know what reasons the Danish People's Party has for proposing this. But I can at least understand if the intention is that it is about sending a clear signal and it is about pushing for people to of course learn Danish. We in the Social Democratic Party are very, very much in agreement with that. We also think, of course, that, in addition to being important to people's ability to integrate, this is, of course, also a reasonable consideration in relation to what is to be covered by expenditure as a society. That is why we are not opposed to all forms of user charges either. However, when we are sceptical, this is due to the fact that it is a dilemma. Because what happens if we take the interpreter from some of these people? Yes, we can fear that in many cases the responsibility will be passed on to the children. Quite often it is the case that children in refugee families have much better Danish knowledge and therefore already de facto operate as interpreter. It may be okay in some cases, but in the vast majority of cases I would venture to claim that it is not. It is too much of a responsibility to pass on to children, and it is, in particular, too much of a responsibility if, for example, we are going to have to do so. Talk about hospital visits. Should children then sit and tell their parents what is wrong or not? It's not attractive, I think. In addition, it is also clear that we fear situations with parent meetings in kindergartens and schools. Do not the children suffer if there is no proper communication there that can be dependent on an interpreter? So there's a lot of dilemmas in this. We look forward to the Minister presenting an evaluation and will, of course, come up for the negotiations we hope and expect to be convened in this respect, but we cannot support the proposal as it stands right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102105014	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102105017	Thank you. I'd like to know if Mr. Kim is here. Dan Jørgensen can discuss what the Social Democratic Party imagines such a user fee should look like. Because I understand that somewhere in there may be deep, I do not know that there are some Social Democrats who would like to introduce user charges in some specific areas. - Sir... Dan Jørgensen reveals in what areas the Social Democratic Party considers it reasonable to introduce user charges for interpretation?
ParlaMint-DK_20171102105044	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102105046	No, I cannot say more than I have already done, but of course I would like to stress again that we are looking forward to the analysis we have been promised. Now Mr. Martin Henriksen said earlier that he admitted that the government was thorough, and that is where I would disagree. There is not necessarily a causal relationship between being slow and being thorough. There may be, but there it isn't necessarily. So we are also looking forward to having a basis for decision-making and a basis for, of course, making our own analyses as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102105115	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102105118	I agree that there is not necessarily a link between being thorough and being slow. So far so good or so bad, you have to do it yourself. Another angle is that in 2009 an inventory was made in this area which showed that the approximate cost of interpretation was 300 million. kr. a year. There you would like to know whether the Social Democrats do not think that these funds could be used better in other areas. That's a lot of money. It could be in the area of health, it could be in the area of school, it could be in the area of the elderly. That is a lot of money, so I would like to know if the Social Democrats do not think that these funds can be used more sensibly.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102105156	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102105159	Yeah, I mean that first of all. That is a lot of money, and it is clear that we have a public sector in which, in many places, more money can easily be spent sensibly. Secondly, however, I would like to say that for us this is not the main objective, that is to save money here. The main objective is to ensure a situation where the interpreters are not necessary because the people it is about are Danish. And if we finally want to make it a matter of crowns and ears, I also think that the overall social gain for Denmark, by these people learning Danish and thus contributing and participating in society in a completely different way, will be quite great.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102105236	Then it is Mrs Pernille Bendixen, the Danish People's Party, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102105239	Thank you. Sir. Dan Jørgensen says that in some cases it would be an unreasonable burden to impose, for example: children to provide interpretation services to a grandmother. But Mr. Dan Jørgensen saw that it is fair that it is taxpayers who have to pay because grandmother has not learned Danish and then takes it out on her granddaughter?
ParlaMint-DK_20171102105257	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102105300	I would imagine a situation where that would be fair, yes. I would also like to think of a situation in which it would not be fair. Of course there is a discussion which I also started my speech by saying about what it is actually fair that the public should pay. However, I must point out that, on the bottom line, that is not the most important issue for us here. The most important question for us here is how we learn foreigners who come to Denmark, Danish, so that they can contribute to our society. The secondary point is that if we make a new practice where there are restrictions on when to get free interpretation assistance, then we just have to make sure that we do it in a way that does not harm the children. It will not be decent to the children it affects, but it will not be in the interests of society either. I have a specific case in which I recently saw that a young boy who was in the 10th grade had to go back to the 10th grade because he had spent most of the past year being an interpreter for his classmates instead of learning something himself. It is not very good either for him or for Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102105409	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102105413	But all of this, overall, is actually a bad integration. Sir. Dan Jørgensen also says that the best thing would be for you to be able to speak and come in and contribute to the labour market. Anyway, we have to look back on the past many, many years and say that it has not succeeded. So what would make it all of a sudden succeed now?
ParlaMint-DK_20171102105431	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102105434	That's right. In a way, it can be said that offering interpreters is such a kind of symptom treatment because you haven't learned these people properly Danish. However, just as we in the health system do not simply remove symptoms treatments, because we would rather prevent them, we cannot simply remove this symptom treatment. We say that we want to help discuss the area. And we say that we also do not think it should be the case that we should in any case just per. automatic is entitled to interpretation for the rest of his life. But we also see some dilemmas in it, and we see a danger that, if we do not think about it and do it properly, it could damage integration, especially for children.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102105513	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next one is sir. Marcus Knuth, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102105522	Thank you to the proposers for this very relevant debate on user charges for interpreting services. In the Left, we believe that the Danish language is the most important prerequisite for successful integration. If you do not speak Danish, you automatically stand on the sidelines of society, and here it is virtually impossible to become part of the Danish community. The consequence is that you often cannot take an active part in the Danish labour market or participate in simple everyday situations such as: Just talking to the neighbor. We in the Left see both as crucial to becoming part of Danish society. I therefore understand that the Danish People's Party has made this proposal, because it is totally unacceptable that you can live in Denmark for several years without understanding or speaking Danish. It is okay for us, as a society, to expect people, after a few years, to actively learn to communicate with, for example, people. the doctor at the hospital or the child's teacher at school without extraordinary help from an interpreter. This is also why the government has already adopted a number of laws that increase the incentive to learn Danish. Here, among other things, can be found. The Danish supplement to the integration allowance and the stricter language requirements for Danish knowledge are mentioned as a prerequisite for obtaining permanent residence permit or citizenship. In addition, we have also given general integration a massive boost over the last few years, which has, of course, contributed to the fact that a great many more people have entered the labour market and thus also learn Danish. It is therefore clear that we in the Left understand the problem that the Danish People's Party is raising here, because it is absurd that the Danish state should pay for interpreting everything from Swahili to Arabic for people who have lived in Denmark for a long time. But having said that, we have been through this discussion before, and the problem is that the Ministry of Justice, among other things. Considers that absolute user charges for interpreting services in the format that Dansk Folkeparti produces here give rise to some legal concerns. This means, therefore, that we cannot simply introduce full user charges for interpreting services, with the exception of the judiciary, of course, as the proposal suggests here. So the Left cannot support the proposal as it stands here, but it is of course important to say, as the Minister also says, that we are willing to look at this area and see how we can reasonably and more appropriately introduce user charges for certain interpreting services. And I should like to welcome the Conservative People's Party and say that for the same reason they do not agree with the proposal here either.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102105753	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102105758	Thank you. I'd like to ask what exactly is the Left's line on this area. In what areas of public administration does Mr. Marcus Knuth and the Left that user charges should be introduced for interpretation? Is it health care or schools?
ParlaMint-DK_20171102105816	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102105819	Well, that's exactly what we want to discuss. That is what we are looking at, as the Minister says. But until you've finished it and just because it's a complex issue, but a problem we agree with one has to deal with it, it won't make sense for me to stand and guess what the final result will be. However, as I said, we are willing to have a dialogue on this, and there we of course also hope for productive, constructive input from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102105843	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102105846	But I'm not gonna ask Mr. Simpson. Marcus Knuth about to guess. I just wanted to ask you if Mr. Cole... Marcus Knuth can say in which areas of the public Left wants there to be user fees for interpretation. Then it may well be that there are all kinds of explanations that this cannot be done because it is contrary to one convention or another convention or administrative law. There may be plenty of arguments for and against. But I suppose you have a political ambition that, in this and this area, there should be user charges for interpretation. Does the Left have a view as to whether it should be in the field of health care or in the field of school?
ParlaMint-DK_20171102105920	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102105922	Well, I would say that in what is appropriate, it must be in as many areas as possible. Because if you live in Denmark, you must of course speak Danish in the society that now surrounds you. Then it is rather as if the Danish People's Party is portraying it as if there is no real will here on the Left. I would just like to remind you that I myself have stood here in the Chair and argued against a motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party, as I remember, on a ban on, for example, Burka. But because we shared the concern, we came up with what would then probably become a masking ban. So it may well be that we are against this proposal as it stands here, but we agree with the intention. And there we have shown in other areas that then we go the same common path, just not in exactly the format that lies here.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102110006	Thank you. Then it's mr. Dan Jørgensen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102110010	Thank you. Does the rapporteur think that we can find ourselves in a situation where, for example, we cannot get an interpreter to join us? a parent meeting in a school?
ParlaMint-DK_20171102110023	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102110026	Well, as I said to the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, I will not begin to wonder exactly what a change in this area might look like. However, the rapporteur himself said that some consideration must of course be taken into account, and that is also why we cannot support a full and absolute ban. As the rapporteur himself said, children must, of course, be taken into account and urgent medical situations must be taken into account so as not to endanger people's lives, etc. And that's why it's not so easy to say full and absolute user charges, but we have to look at this very, very carefully to come up with a sensible solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102110106	Sir. Dan Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102110109	Thank you. After all, I share the same view: it may be sensible to wait for the analysis before taking any concrete decisions. So this isn't really an attempt to be polemic or anything else. It is only to trace me to where the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party are, in terms of what consideration we should take. That is why I would like to try to get the rapporteur to elaborate on what consideration, for example, of the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer. kids you have to take.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102110138	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102110141	Well, I don't think I'm getting much closer than what I said before, that is, that there are health situations and health situations in relation to children. But I can't stand here at this point because the analysis and the work hasn't gone any further than it is and guess me forward to more precise situations.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102110158	Then it is Mrs Pernille Bendixen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102110202	Thank you. So, does the Left have its own line, or is it just something that lies out with the officials, and then you get a political position when the officials have come up with an answer? Because we have been talking about this for a very, very long time, and one could imagine that the Left had its own political line. Then there are things that can succeed and things that cannot succeed, but that is the way it is. You have to get the lawyers to judge on that. But it could just be really nice for the rest of us to know what the Left line is really in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102110227	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102110230	As I said in my rapporteur's speech, we do not think it is fair that interpretation is paid to the extent that it is being done right now, for people who have lived in Denmark for very, very many years and who should and should also be able to learn Danish, but have not. However, as I have said, as the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party also said, there are some concerns about children and others. So we want to land this in a way where you can both see yourself in it and where we don't feel we're making fun of the Danish tax dollars either.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102110304	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102110307	The question is whether we are already a laughing stock for the Danish tax dollars. The rapporteur spoke a little about some legal concerns. Can the rapporteur perhaps go a little further on what might be left of legal uncertainty?
ParlaMint-DK_20171102110319	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102110323	I don't want to stand here and say exactly what the Justice Department has said. But when you talk about absolute user charges, that is. in all areas, with the exception of the judiciary, I believe that the Ministry of Justice has had some legal concerns. But I can't tell you exactly where it is. But what I know is that we can tighten up the law so that in certain areas user charges can be introduced, and that is, of course, what we want to look at.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102110350	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. The next is Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten. No... it's just changed. Here you go, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102110404	Thank you. I understand that there are several meetings running at the same time, so I have the honour of giving Enhedslisten's speech. The problems of public interpretation have been updated recently. The newspaper Information told in October about a man who had been offered tasks as Swahilitolk without being able to speak the language. Information articles show that the control of interpreters' language skills and knowledge of the interpreter's handicraft is very poor or completely absent. A thick line is placed under the needs that Enhedslisten has pointed out for years: the need for a certification scheme for interpreters, for a publicly available interpreting register and for good training of interpreters in the main refugee and immigrant languages. The resolution before us today will not improve the conditions of those of our fellow citizens who are not safe enough in Danish to master a difficult conversation with a doctor, nurse or case worker. Instead, the proposal will make things worse, lead to misunderstandings, misdiagnosis and mistreatment and put pressure on children who, because they are better at Danish than their parents, will in some cases be forced into a difficult situation of interpretation where children under no circumstances belong. We had a similar motion for a resolution from the Danish People's Party a year ago. The difference is that in 2016 where Dansk Folkeparti suggested that people themselves had to pay for interpretation after 2 years in Denmark, it has now been changed to 3 years. According to the Danish People's Party, this is happening to accommodate the Social Democracy, which in the report in March of this year wrote that the party shares the intention in the resolution and would like to discuss how to tighten up the state's expenditure on interpreting services. The Social Democratic explanatory statement in March 2017 for their rejection of the previous proposal was that there was a risk that children would be used as interpreters. The new motion for a resolution contains no response to that objection. Children can still risk being disadvantaged when their parents need help with communication. For the Enhedslisten, the proposal has not become more edible, although it has slightly softened. The consequences of this proposal will be that doctors, midwives, nurses, social workers, educators and teachers will have more difficulty communicating with their patients and with parents who, for one reason or another, do not speak well enough Danish. And it will be detrimental to human health, to the upbringing and well-being of children. The proposal will increase the incentives for foreigners to learn Danish quickly, says the comments. But already today, people who settle in Denmark as refugees or as immigrants have a strong incentive to learn Danish. In some cases it succeeds. There may be good reasons why we cannot succeed; we may be traumatized, or we may come here with a poor form of schooling. Either way, I have no doubt for a second that this proposal will make no more people learn Danish. There is a need for something quite different in the area of interpretation. We need a certification system, a properly accessible list of interpreters' qualifications, increased use of remote interpretation with modern means and, last but not least, an SU-eligible, publicly funded interpretation training in the most important refugee and immigrant languages. These are all opportunities that we can make use of to strengthen the interpretation in Denmark, and this is very much needed. The staff in the health sector, the judicial system, the social system and the asylum system have been calling for this at long last. This proposal from the Danish People's Party works in exactly the opposite direction, and Enhedslisten cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102110812	Thank you, Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Then it's Mrs. Laura Lindahl, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102110824	Thank you. With this resolution, it is proposed that we should introduce user charges for interpreting services in Denmark for people who have been here for more than three years, and this is a proposal for which I have very much sympathy. The failure of integration for years is due, among other things, to the fact that we have not been good enough to make demands on the immigrants who have come here. It is not good enough if you have been here for many years and only speak grim Danish. There must be the expectation that if you come to Denmark, you have to learn Danish, and if you don't do it anyway, then you have to finance the interpreter that you need to be able to commit yourself. Unfortunately, international conventions stand in the way of complete implementation of this proposal. So we cannot support what it is, but we would very much like to work towards achieving it as far as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102110919	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102110935	Thank you. I would like to know whether the Liberal Alliance has any suggestions as to the areas in which user charges should be introduced for interpretation.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102110939	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102110942	In the Liberal Alliance, we want to introduce user charges for interpretation in all the respects that we can do at all in terms of complying with our international obligations. There is no place where we would pick it out and say: here we think it should be protected. And personally, I would also like to take a look at whether it should be before the 3 years that you should finance it yourself. It's fine that you need an interpreter to understand that when you've just arrived in the country, but the question is whether it's fair to have someone else pay for it. So in the Liberal Alliance, we think it makes sense to take a look at it, and we would like to look at where it can be done and as many places as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102111012	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102111018	But if we are toying with the idea that the Liberal Alliance is not so enthusiastic about the international conventions, and if we say that the Liberal Alliance would like to go against the international conventions there was also, I think, a time when the Liberal Alliance would like to do so, then Mrs Laura Lindahl must be able to respond to what areas it is. If it is pure politics, if we disregard the conventions and then lawyers can subsequently come and say that one thing or another cannot be done, then would one think that it should be in health care, in primary school, in kindergarten?
ParlaMint-DK_20171102111050	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102111055	If this is a purely question of opinion, that is, what my position is, and if it is pure politics, then I would say that we believe that user charges should be introduced everywhere, including in the health services, also in the public schools everywhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102111104	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Pernille Bendixen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102111111	Mrs Laura Lindahl says that international conventions stand in the way of this. In other words, if that is the position, then the logic must also be that we will never be able to get it in place. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20171102111123	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102111126	Well, as I understand it, there will be some parts where we can do it. And that's what you're looking at, that's where you can put the cut so you can keep to the international conventions, but you're still looking in this direction. And I think that is sensible, but I think it is reasonable to try to challenge international conventions. We are not afraid to say in the Liberal Alliance that we want to.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102111144	Then it's mr. Dan Jørgensen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102111148	Does the rapporteur not believe that there is a risk that children and children's integration will be harmed if their parents are in a situation where they do not understand what, for example, is going to happen? is going on for a parent meeting, but can't afford an interpreter?
ParlaMint-DK_20171102111206	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102111208	After all, it is the parents' responsibility to engage in the children's school, and it is then the parents' responsibility to prioritize an interpreter out of their financial space so that they can be involved in their children's school. I have the expectation that these parents will give it a really, very high priority because they need to get involved in school. So I have the expectation that priority will be given to that. And with the level of performance we have in Denmark, you can expect them to give priority to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102111237	Here you go, sir. Dan Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102111239	Yes, the rapporteur can expect that. We can then just say that if the rapporteur's expectations are not true, for example. You can't afford the low integration benefit that is now to bring an interpreter with you, so it's the kids that's gonna get hurt. Then it has quite serious consequences. But then let us try to take an example where it is not so much about what the rapporteur expects, namely an example where we know it cannot be done. If, for example, we do not know what to do. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done on this subject. Will that be fair?
ParlaMint-DK_20171102111323	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102111325	But whatever is the reason why you cannot understand Danish, you have the opportunity to buy the services on the private market, buy an interpreter who can help you. And there is no one in Denmark who does not have a transfer income. If you are ill, you get public money, if you are outside the labour market, you get public money. There is no one in Denmark who does not have an income which is without income if you have children or if you do not have children. That is why it is the case that you get a public transfer and you can prioritise it on interpretation if you cannot learn the language.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102111403	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102111412	Thank you. We are here today to consider the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party to introduce user charges for interpreting services in the public sector for foreigners who have been in Denmark for three years. With the proposal, DF wishes to remove the right to free interpretation in all public institutions, with the exception of the Danish judiciary or in cases of serious illness. According to the Danish People's Party, it is an incentive to learn Danish faster. This may not come as a surprise, but I can say from the outset that the alternative cannot support the proposal, nor could we, the last time a similar proposal was put forward by the Danish People's Party. It was then after two years' stay that user charges for interpreting services had to be introduced, and so in this proposal Dansk Folkeparti has softened up a bit, because now you have extended the 2 years to be if you have been in Denmark for 3 years. However, the extension of the time horizon does not change the alternative's attitude to it, because what we found problematic last time is also happening now, and that is that we believe that the proposal is contrary to such a fundamental principle of administrative equality that it is important for all citizens to have legal certainty when they receive public aid. We also believe that it has a negative impact on integration. Today, the decision to provide free interpretation is in the hands of the municipalities, which means that if a case officer or a doctor considers it necessary to comply with the law in force and they believe that this is what is needed to enable the citizen concerned to understand what is going on, yes, they can request interpreting assistance. And that means that it is therefore the individual's professional judgement in the matter that is crucial. The municipalities are also responsible for ensuring that cases dealt with in the municipality are reliably disclosed, and the same applies in the health care system. I have to say that we are extremely concerned about the consequences this will have on the health care of a number of citizens, and we have all seen this recently in connection with the unfortunate case of a family that may have been poisoned by fungi. The Health Act does not allow treatment to be initiated or modified without the informed consent of the patient concerned, and precisely because decisions in health care must be taken with the patient and on the basis of the patient's individual conditions, it is essential that the person concerned can understand what is going on. And that is why it is again the doctor who assesses whether an interpreter is necessary, and that is how we think it should be. So it is of course to be sure that the patient who needs the medical care in question is well informed and understands his own course of treatment that we provide free interpretation services. This is essential in order to be able to comply with it and to be absolutely sure that the person concerned understands what is going on. So it is not up to the person himself to say: do I need an interpreter or not? No, it is therefore the system, if I may say so, that assesses whether an interpreter is needed. It is also possible to imagine other situations in which foreigners who cannot afford interpreting services fail to seek health care when their children are ill themselves or, at worst, their children. We also risk, if the proposal is adopted here, that children will be much more used as interpreters for their parents, and that is a situation in which I think we all agree that we should not put our children in. So all in all, we will not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102111753	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Pernille Bendixen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102111800	Is it the policy of the alternative that it is reasonable for the state to pay interpretation assistance for people who cannot speak Danish for all eternity?
ParlaMint-DK_20171102111809	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102111813	It is certainly our policy to ensure legal certainty for the citizens who live in Denmark, and it is therefore essential for us to have an interpreter provided if the professional staff consider this to be important, so that we are absolutely sure that the citizen in question can understand what is going on.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102111827	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102111830	It is about health care that the alternative has some concerns. What about schools and day care centres and other public places?
ParlaMint-DK_20171102111839	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102111842	As it is now, it is the municipality that is responsible for ensuring that citizens can understand what is going on, also in relation to the municipalities having to comply with the law that there is legal certainty for people. So this is absolutely crucial for us. I believe that where our positions differ, there is an incentive. The Danish People's Party has the experience that it will promote that people learn Danish. I don't think it will. We fully agree that people who come to Denmark must learn Danish, and preferably as soon as possible. But there may be all sorts of different reasons why the person in question cannot Danish. We just need to be absolutely sure that people understand what is going on when they are in contact with the public.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102111923	Then it's mr. Marcus Knuth, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102111930	Thank you. We in the Left will take a positive view of whether we can introduce user charges in a number of areas. But did I hear the rapporteur correctly? Did the rapporteur say that it would be detrimental to integration, in other words to introduce user charges in some or all areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20171102111945	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102111948	In any case, we do not believe that this will help integration. That is why it is an inappropriate proposal in this respect, because that is the reason. If that was a reason, as I heard the Liberal Alliance say, that people want people to pay for services themselves, then that is another matter. However, we do not believe that this will help integration, and we think it is important to be absolutely sure that, when people are in contact with the public, they understand what is going on.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102112018	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102112023	I can see that there may be some individual situations where user charges may be a problem in relation to health etc., but on the whole it must benefit integration that people have a stronger incentive to learn Danish so that you can communicate with the children's teachers or colleagues at work. I find it difficult to see how integration is to be harmed by having a greater incentive to learn Danish.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102112045	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102112049	Well, it is a question of incentive structure that we are really discussing here. The fact that people are being told that now they have to pay for their own interpretation, I do not think it is in any way conducive to integration. Well, that's not what makes a person say that now you have to learn Danish. For I basically believe that everyone who comes to Denmark wants to learn Danish. And what we have been doing here lately is that we have promoted Danish education, and we are demanding it more and more. Therefore, we have made rules that tighten up the requirement that people should be able to learn Danish as soon as possible. I think they should, of course, when they come to Denmark, and I think everyone has an interest in that. So this isn't helping integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102112128	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. I would just like to remind you that it is a good thing to press the second time if you want to make two brief comments. Sir. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102112140	Thank you. Since the rapporteur for foreigners from the Radicals cannot be here today, I must make our views known. As I think almost all the rapporteurs have mentioned, being able to speak and write Danish is a crucial prerequisite, perhaps it is also nice to hear that there is a very broad common political interest in ensuring as good Danish knowledge as possible. After all, a large number of initiatives have been taken, both under the previous and the present government, to promote Danish knowledge, and I think we can also welcome the fact that it is starting to work. Perhaps one of the most important things that has happened is the tripartite agreement made by the present government, which ensures that, instead of thinking that one must first learn Danish perfectly before entering the labour market, one actually enters the labour market and learns Danish at the same time, so that one can use one's language skills in practice. That's the way we're gonna get out of here. This is absolutely crucial, and it is also quite reasonable to expect that people will, of course, learn the language that is being spoken in the country to which they are going. Everyone benefits from it, and therefore, by far, the vast majority of people who come to Denmark also want to learn Danish. Then the question is whether this proposal contributes to that purpose or not, and whether there are any problems that stand in the way of it. We in the Radical Left do not believe that it does, that is to say it contributes to it, and we believe that there are a number of serious problems which we must at least have clarified very properly before we can be convinced that we must go down that road. The first is the human concern expressed by the Socialist rapporteur. I am thinking of the children who may be put in a really unpleasant situation here. And I am thinking of some refugees being severely traumatized, struggling with psychological and physical problems, and there may be reasons why the Danish language has not been acquired. I do not think it makes sense to whip the group of refugees further on top of what can be said to be economic cuts that the government has already carried out. There is a need for legal certainty, which was also mentioned by the rapporteur of the alternative, and which also means that the proposal is probably on the verge of the conventions. Then there is another consideration that nobody has really talked about here, but which I actually think also weighs a little over the consideration of the people addressed by the proposal, namely the consideration of those employees in the public sector who have to try to do an honest and proper job. How can one make a proper diagnosis, how can one prepare a treatment at the hospital that does not become too resource-intensive or does not add further complications to a disease course? I simply do not think it is a fair situation to put our public servants, nurses, doctors and all sorts of others in, so that they cannot understand the foreigners properly or cannot understand what is happening. Because the point is that if you cannot afford to buy your own interpretation, you may not get it, or it will be a child who has to carry it out, and it does not ensure a proper quality in the public hospital. Therefore, it can also have an economic consequence if you are not able to implement, for example. a proper treatment in a hospital. It remains to be seen whether it can have such a symbolic whip function, i.e. whether we can promote integration by sending this signal. We do not believe that in the Radical Left either. We do not believe that refugees as a starting point have a desire not to learn to speak Danish, which is why we believe that the vast majority of them really want to do so, and that many of the efforts we have already made will make it possible to get much more refugees to learn Danish, also very soon after they have come to Denmark. Against this background, the Radical Left cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102112559	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Carl Valentin, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102112607	Thank you for the floor. As our rapporteur could not be here, I will present the SF's views. The most important political battle for the SF has always been equal opportunities for everyone. When it comes to immigrants and refugees, equal opportunities start with the ability to master the Danish language. Lack of language skills closes all doors: education, employment, participation in society, the possibility of being heard in public debate and equal access to the social system. In a dew-fresh evaluation of Denmark's integration efforts, language is clearly identified as the biggest barrier to successful integration. 97% of the country's municipal managers believe that language skills are a barrier to integration, and 61 per cent. of them believe that it is a very big barrier. At the same time, figures from the AE Council show that around 40%. of immigrants leaving primary school without being able to properly Danish • 40 per cent. It is a disaster and it is a failure that we in the Folketing must accept our share of the blame for. It is we who are responsible for a proper primary school. With the proposal to introduce user charges for interpreting services, Dansk Folkeparti asks rhetorically whether it is not fair that you pay for your interpreter yourself if, after 3 years in the country, you still cannot properly Danish. However, as long as we, as a society, do not guarantee adequate integration as long as we starve primary and hence language education, and as long as the social effort to help economically vulnerable families has not been improved, we bear part of the responsibility for some families needing an interpreter. Interpreters are an essential part of equal access to society's systems, rights and institutions. This is particularly true for children who already find it difficult to understand the adult world, which is characterised by institutions such as hospitals. Nor can I see places in the Danish People's Party's proposal where it is emphasised that, in exceptional circumstances, as in the case of trauma, if children are involved or the like, they can be exempted from user charges. In SF we are not actually in principle opposed to introducing some degree of user charge for interpreting services when it comes to people who should have learned Danish. To a certain extent, we agree with the Danish People's Party that it can be reasonable. However, the resolution as it stands does not ensure that it is only the type of people who have to pay, and the consequence will be a more unfair society. The SF cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102112852	Thank you to the rapporteur, there are no brief comments. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102112906	Thank you. In December of last year we are again approaching the sweet Christmas season... the Danish Parliament discussed a similar proposal, which was also made by the Danish People's Party. At that time, we proposed that user charges should be introduced for interpreting services after two years' stay in Denmark. This proposal, as several speakers have said, then sets the limit after three years of residence. When we had the first reading of the Danish People's Party's motion for a resolution last year, the Minister expressed his sympathy for the proposal and the willingness to discuss the whole question of interpretation, and the Social Democrats in their report proposed that the current interpretation practice should be changed if it was possible to ensure that it did not affect children in families. We saw the statements made by the government and the Social Democrats as an attempt to be accommodating to the intentions behind the Danish People's Party's motion for a resolution, which is why we have raised it again. However, there has been no discussion of interpretation in this Chamber since the Danish Parliament last time discussed the proposal, and that is why we have chosen to resubmit the proposal with the longer period to learn Danish. We in the Danish People's Party think it is very reasonable that foreigners who have spent 3 years in Denmark should be able to stand on their own feet. They cannot expect the public authorities to continue to pay for interpretation, year after year, or almost forever, because foreigners have not learned the Danish language. When they choose to settle in Denmark, we also think the Danish People's Party must follow some obligations. And it is unreasonable that Danish taxpayers should pay for foreigners not wanting to learn the Danish language. Then I would like to say that we have in our proposal that if there are examples where someone, for example, is involved. is very seriously ill and it is then estimated that there is no time for the device to be set in motion in relation to user charges, because it is only necessary to be interpreted here and now, then there is the possibility of exceptions. But we think that if you as a foreigner seek integration, it should be possible in 3 years to acquire so many Danish knowledge that you do not have to have an interpreter made available. And if you are to have an interpreter at your disposal, it is very reasonable that you should pay for it yourself. With our proposal, user charges must apply in all public institutions, with the exception of the Danish judiciary. In other words, the proposal proposes user charges for interpretation in hospitals, in municipalities, in schools, in kindergartens, etc. Another element that also plays a role is that in 2009 the then government estimated interpretation costs at approx. 300 million kr. Every year, and it is money that can be used sensibly elsewhere. I know there hasn't been an inventory since then, but that figure has probably increased. And we can use that money differently and better, that is at least the position of the Danish People's Party. Having said that, I would of course like to thank the Minister and the Left, the Liberal Alliance and the Social Democrats for their positive comments. I hope there will soon be a concrete proposal from the government and I hope it will be relatively quickly. If you listen to the debate, you might think that in fact there is a fairly broad majority in the Folketing who think it is reasonable to introduce user charges for interpretation in various areas. And when that is the case, I think we should get it implemented. So that should be the call from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102113228	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. No one has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102113305	The debate is open. It is first the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102113311	The Danish People's Party wants to require the government to ensure that no minor asylum seeker is accommodated with any spouse or partner. The proposal is identical with a motion for a resolution from 7 February this year, and it was then rejected at second reading on 14 March this year. Even because the proposal is identical with the last resolution, what I am saying will, far along the way, contain a repetition of what I said the last time we debated it here. As I said at the time, overall I agree with the Danish People's Party in the idea behind the resolution, and I do not think anyone is in doubt about that. I was and am very concerned that we are protecting these girls as best we can and not maintaining them in an involuntary marriage or together life. Therefore, in February 2016, I also wanted to separate the couples as far as possible and set up as restrictive a line as possible. No one should be in any doubt that I have wanted to go as far as possible to give the girls a breathing space where they can then consider their situation. That is why I also took steps with my press release from February 2016 to quickly turn the previous practice upside down. That was my intention at the time, and that is also my position today. Today, the scheme is such that in all cases the minor is accommodated separately from his spouse or collector from the first accommodation except in exceptional cases. However, even after the first accommodation, the starting point is that the minor asylum seeker remains separate from his or her spouse or partner. However, as I mentioned earlier, there will be cases where an exception must be made to the starting point for separate accommodation. This does not apply, however, if the parties are less than 15 years old; in these cases the parties are always accommodated separately. As you know, this derogation is due to the fact that we have been through it here in a number of consultations gradually that the scheme must be managed in accordance with Denmark's international obligations and with the interpretation of Denmark's international obligations in matters relating to the accommodation of minors asylum seekers with a spouse or partner in the asylum centres. And there I can refer to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration's note, which was sent to the Danish Parliament on 12 December 2016. The December 2016 note contains a review of the scope of Denmark's international obligations in these cases, including the balancing of individual cases, and the weighting of selected moments, among others. the age of the parties, the compulsion, pregnancy, children and health and well-being conditions. As an example of a case in which everything else is equal, mention can be made of the situation in which there are a few of them, for example. 17 years and 20 years respectively and where there is no coercion. This may also be the case where the consideration of shared children is in favour of shared accommodation and where, moreover, the relationship or marriage is voluntary. The motion for a resolution lays down a legal situation in which no minor asylum seeker can be accommodated with any spouse or partner. As you probably know, I would have liked to have seen it differently, but it is the Ministry's opinion that it would be clearly contrary to Denmark's international obligations to establish a system in which no exception can ever be made from the starting point of separate accommodation. It is now the government's position that we must respect the commitments we have made and therefore the government cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102113737	Thank you. There are some brief comments. Sir. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102113740	Thank you. I do not want to discuss the process with the Minister in relation to the phenomenon of child brides, which should only be completely banned, but substance. I agree with the arguments put forward by the government in order not to do so completely, namely that it is believed that it cannot be done within the framework of international conventions. The Minister believes this, and the government believes it is the most important consideration. However, please refer to what the Minister has said several times in public and also in Parliament, in consultation, etc. Then it may be that they are 16 or 17 years old today, but no one knows whether they have married, perhaps forced marriage, in their country of origin, when they have been 13 years old. So is the Minister prepared to find a model where the first consideration is for the girls and not for the conventions?
ParlaMint-DK_20171102113838	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102113840	I also believe that Mr. Martin Henriksen is very aware of where I am on this question. I want to take sides with the girls, and I do not want them to live under compulsion in any form. Now you have come to Denmark, and here our rules apply. But, as I have said, and I think it has to be said, we have been through it in incredibly many times now. There may be cases where one has to take into account a consideration that makes that if one, for example. has a 17-year-old and a 20-year-old and there's no form of coercion, so they won't be living together. But I think that my position in this area is very clear to most people.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102113928	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102113932	I am not accusing the Minister of not wanting to take account of the girls I think the Minister would like to. But let me ask you this: is it not extremely frustrating that the conventions, which are said to be in order to safeguard the interests of people and human rights and, one must also assume, the rights of girls, prevent Denmark from doing so, so to ensure that the first consideration that is taken is for the girls? Is it not extremely frustrating that the conventions put this framework on Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20171102114006	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102114009	Yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102114011	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102114015	This is very much about attitudes, and in the Enhedslisten we also want to take the side of the young girls. But when you hear the Minister, it almost sounds as if the Minister could take the view that it really was an advantage that there were no girls under the age of 18 who could marry. So, with the scepticism towards girls under 18 years of age who come and seek asylum and the scepticism about their life situation, does the Minister feel that we should not marry until we are over 18 years old?
ParlaMint-DK_20171102114044	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102114046	I am of the opinion that no one should live under compulsion, and what we see with child brides is that all too often everything has happened under some form of coercion. That is what I am so fervently opposed to. And then I have to say that for good reason I have taken part in all the consultations and the answers to all the questions from Enhedslisten. It is particularly Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen who has asked questions and so my impression is not, if I am to be honest, that Enhedslisten is taking the girls' side in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102114121	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102114124	It is now not my impression that the Minister has answered all the questions, and in cases where it has happened, it has certainly happened with a certain delay. I am listening to the Minister speaking in favour of being under 18 years of age and getting married, and this is where there is such an individual assessment of it in Denmark, and you can get a royal letter. So I would like to hear from the Minister whether the Minister has come to the view that asylum seekers under 18 years of age must have this individual assessment before it is the case that they are forcibly separated. Can we clarify this clearly today?
ParlaMint-DK_20171102114157	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102114159	So I do not know what is being asked about, because the individual assessment is what has filled all the consultations. And yes, there is an individual assessment. It's like what's been the focal point.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102114211	Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102114214	Thank you, Minister. After all, the Minister is only referring to international law, the conventions, as if that is the problem. Do we agree that we also have to comply with Danish legislation and that it is Danish legislation that requires us to be heard? This means that young women must actually be taken into account. You have to ask them what they want. So do we agree that Danish legislation, administrative law, and consultation of the parties are also required? There is because you have to ask the young girls exactly what they want. And we're talking about girls from 15 to 18 years old. We're not talking about kids.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102114250	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102114252	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102114254	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102114256	Thank you. Well that is very good, because then it is clear that it is also Danish legislation that is the problem and that it is Danish legislation that has not been complied with. And I would just like to say here that I think it is very good that we are now complying with Danish legislation, that we are asking young women and that the Minister is also prepared to comply with Danish legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102114319	The minister. And I just want to ask that this does not turn into a consultation. This is a proposal we are discussing, so we are taking a position on the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102114329	Yes, but I just wish that Mrs Josephine Fock and the alternative took the girls' side in this, and unfortunately that has not been the case. This has not been the case throughout the discussion we have had. I think it's sad, I might as well say that. I think that some young girls are being left behind, but the alternative has to do that with themselves, and this has apparently been done together with the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102114357	Then it is Mrs Pernille Bendixen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102114401	It is many hours on the same subject, it must be said. Now there is a concrete proposal here, and the Minister mentions among other things. the international commitments. I assume that the Minister is thinking about the right to family life and that it is like that which is in the way. Who has interpreted that? Because in the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, everyone under the age of 18 is defined as a child, and a family under the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child is a father and mother and child. How it can then suddenly become a grown man with a child who has the right to a family life stands for me as a very, very big question. Is the Minister willing to challenge that part of the conventions?
ParlaMint-DK_20171102114442	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102114444	So, to the first part, who has interpreted it: Well, that is, it can be said, both in my ministry, but also very much in consultation with the Ministry of Justice. This is also one of the major discussions during the consultations that Mrs Pernille Bendixen has participated in from end to end and has been a very active part of, and thank you for that. To the second part, we have to challenge the conventions: I think we are doing this in relation to the way we administer, in other words that we have turned it all around. But it must also be clear that we are complying with the conventions. We have given our hand to that, we have signed the agreement that we will, and that is why it is also the attitude of the government that we must continue to respect the conventions. That is not to say that one could not wish that there were things that were different, even in the conventions, and I know that the Danish People's Party is in line with that position.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102114541	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102114543	Does the Minister not agree with the Danish People's Party that the law above all laws, the constitution, is above the international conventions and challenges them that way around?
ParlaMint-DK_20171102114554	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102114555	I mean, I think it is essential that we respect both international conventions and, of course, the constitution.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102114601	Thank you, Minister. Then we start with the rapporteur's series. It's sir. Dan Jørgensen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102114609	Thank you. In the Social Democratic Party we are primarily concerned with protecting the girls, and we are very aware that there are problems with families coming to Denmark with family structures that do not meet the standards we have and which cannot be regarded as the best for the girls' best interests. That is why, for a long time before the tightening-up that has come into force, we have also pressed for more action in Denmark, which is why we are also glad that there has been tightening-up. By its very nature, we have not always been satisfied with the way in which this has been done, and the many consultations that have taken place in the cases also show that there is certainly reason to criticise the Minister in that process. But on the bottom line, there should be no doubt whatsoever that we are against child brides and that we think it is good that has been tightened up. We have demanded this ourselves. We cannot support the proposal as it stands here for the same reasons as those highlighted by the Minister. Let me also supplement and say that it is clear that there are examples that exceptions can be quite reasonable, and that would not be possible if the proposal that lies here were adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102114742	Thank you. Then it's mr. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. A brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102114752	Thank you. In connection with the opening debate of the Danish Parliament on 6 October 2016, Mrs Mette Frederiksen said: "That is, in my view, a terrible thing to say now, if it is true that it is a convention that protects adult men in a relationship with a minor child in Denmark. So here's something we should look at. What exactly is to be included in the statement by the Socialist President, Mrs Mette Frederiksen?
ParlaMint-DK_20171102114813	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102114816	Yes, if there is anything in the conventions that means that we cannot protect the girls, then of course you have to look at it. I would now like to say that, with the tightening up of practice, I believe that we are protecting the girls much better. Are we protecting them well enough? I think we should keep discussing that. But I would also like to say that the main reason why we cannot support the proposal now before us is that it will then not be possible to make exceptions. And what if you imagine a marriage between a 17-year-old and a 19-year-old who has no form of coercion whatsoever? They may have even bought children and other things. Do they have to be separated? I don't think there's any good reason for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102114905	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102114909	I understand that the Social Democratic Party believes that the practice in this area is fine as it is. It then explains very well why the Danish People's Party's proposal cannot be supported. But in relation to the example of Mr. Dan Jørgensen mentions that we do not have a Chineseman's chance to find out what has happened in the country of origin. They may have got married when the girl was 12 years old or 13 years old or 14 years old. We don't have a Chinese man's chance to find out. They are people who come to Denmark, say they need protection, and then they get protection and we take their case seriously. Is it not reasonable, then, to say that we always give the girl the benefit of the doubt? And if it is so that it is true love, then there is a possibility that they can subsequently move in together if they are granted a residence permit in Denmark. Then they come out and can live freely in society. But the most important thing for them is to have protection, and that is what we give them.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102114958	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102115002	In the vast majority of cases, that will be the case. That's where you have to give the girl the benefit of the doubt. Sometimes it's just more complicated than that. I will certainly not deny that there may be cases where there is no doubt. I would certainly not deny that there may be cases where the best interests of children are also to be taken into account. The rapporteur then says that he interprets my answer in such a way that we think practice is fine as it is. It is, in fact, a correct interpretation, but with the addition that we are satisfied that there has been tightening up, but that we are constantly monitoring whether we are also fulfilling the objectives that we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102115042	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then I'll take the next rapporteur, sir. Marcus Knuth, Left, and then there is a lunch break after the Left rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102115053	The proposers of B 13 will require the government to impose a ban on minors seeking asylum being accommodated with their spouses or partners. Let me begin by saying that the Left very much shares the intention and the idea behind the Danish People's Party's motion for a resolution. I would even add that if you look at the act that our good minister has had for the last two years in this field, I think it is very clear that we have a minister who really, really, has fought for this matter and has gone as far as you could possibly go and who has thrown himself very personally into this issue, precisely because you share the concerns of the Danish People's Party. Because it is totally unacceptable for a minor or others to be forced into a marriage or relationship. This is true in society as well as in the asylum centres. I believe it is our duty, as politicians, to guarantee the freedom of choice and the right to self-determination of this whole group. But as the debate of the last year or two and countless consultations have shown, there are a few exceptions. It is precisely the European Convention on Human Rights that dictates that exceptions should be provided for in the law. Such derogations shall include, inter alia: ensure that a couple on e.g. 17 and 18 years must be able to stay together if, for example, hasn't been forced into the relationship. So marriages must be assessed individually. This does not mean protecting the group that has forced marriage with minors. The best way to prevent this is to do so, and I believe that the current legislation will certainly be able to do so to a large extent. Unfortunately, however, we are also bound in certain areas of the Convention on Human Rights. In addition, I would actually like to thank the Danish People's Party for the support of the Danish People's Party in the very, very many consultations that have taken place. Because I think we're fighting for the same cause. So although I share the intention and the idea behind the resolution, the clear position of the Left is that we cannot go further than we have already gone. And, as I have said, I think the proposers have seen how hard we have fought for this issue and that we have gone to the very last point of how much we can tighten up the legislation in this area. So we do not support the proposal as it stands here.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102115322	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. As I said, we shall postpone the sitting until 8 a.m. 13.00.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102130002	The sitting is resumed. We have reached Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102130025	Thank you. The Danish People's Party proposes to introduce an exemption-free separation of married couples into the asylum system where one party is under 18 years of age. After all, on 10 February 2016, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration issued a rather famous instruction on precisely such an exemption-free separation. Since 2016, February 10th, we have become much smarter. In a very critical statement, the Ombudsman has stated that the exemption-free practice was not legal, and by the summer of 2017, in three open consultations and about 200 written ministerial replies, we have seen fairly varied explanations, sometimes contradictory. First, the Minister said that the instruction followed the law, then changed the explanation and admitted that the practice dictated on 10 February was illegal and had to be changed. The comments on the motion for a resolution we are debating now state that it is stated that in certain situations it may be contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights to forcibly separate married couples. The wording given here is shown under the understatement of the year. Seven-inch nails have been established by the Ombudsman, and it is also admitted by the Minister that an exemption-free separation without an individual assessment, and this, of course, includes consultation of the parties and other guarantees of legal certainty under Danish administrative law, is not legal. It is perhaps worth emphasising the word Danish in this context, so that it is not only a question of international conventions, but also Danish legislation. The Danish People's Party writes in the comments that the party will come to the rescue of these young girls. The fact is that the vast majority of girls who were forced to divorce as a result of the Minister's instructions of February 2016 were 16 or 17 years old. None of them were, of course, during the age of sexually low age, i.e. 15 years. It has always been, and is, of course, still illegal to accommodate couples if one is during the sexually low age. For many of the couples, therefore, the two sides were contemporaries or almost contemporaries. The vast majority of those involved cared very little about the wishes of the Minister and the Danish People's Party to come to their rescue, if I may say so, by forcing them to live apart and far apart. In the Enhedslisten we are very strong supporters of women's right to self-determination. It is best taken into account when we comply with Danish legislation and international conventions, and this of course means that individual assessments must be made under Danish administrative legislation, which also obviously includes the fact that young girls are actually asked themselves. In fact, I think it's so strange about this alleged very great interest in the well-being of these girls. I find it difficult to see when you are apparently not interested in actually talking to the young girls themselves. If there is the slightest sign of coercion, it is clear that the couples should not be accommodated together, and that is how it is, whether it is the young girl or it is the young man who is in a relationship they do not want to be in. The Enhedslisten does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102130418	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is one question from Mr. Marcus Knuth, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102130423	Thank you to the rapporteur. I have just one small clarification question: does the rapporteur support the current practice in the area where couples are initially separated?
ParlaMint-DK_20171102130435	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102130436	I am not opposed in principle to a distinction being made as a starting point, as long as an assessment of whether these couples should be reunited is quickly made. The question then is how long that separation should be. I have some doubts about what I think is reasonable on that point. But that is certainly better than making a forced separation without an individual consultation. Of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102130510	Then we thank the rapporteur and move forward. Next is Mrs. Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102130519	Thank you. The proposal here will ensure that it is never possible to accommodate a minor asylum seeker with a spouse. For the Liberal Alliance, the changes that we have seen exactly in this area have been about a desire to protect those girls who are married against their will or in circumstances where it cannot be said that it has been an independent decision. In our view, this will always apply to women who are significantly under 18 years of age and, in very many cases, when there is a very large age difference. In those cases, if they exist, where a 17-year-old and a 19-year-old are just fond of each other, we believe that the starting point should still be that you separate the couple, but that you do not necessarily have to separate the couple. We think it is a good thing that there is the practice that the starting point is that you separate the couple, but of course you have to weigh the situation as a whole if a 17-year-old and a 19-year-old are fond of each other and are married, they may have a child together, and then you have to consider the consequences for that child if you just part-out them without weighing up their situation anyway. So the Liberal Alliance is in the sense that the starting point is that you separate couples, but that you don't stick to the separation if you get a feeling that these couples have entered into their marriage voluntarily.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102130653	Thank you. There is a question from Mrs Pernille Bendixen, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102130658	Thank you. I'm interested to hear from a previous debate we've had about the Liberal Alliance might be interested in challenging the international conventions in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102130711	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102130712	As I said earlier, we are not afraid to talk about challenging our international conventions. We think that in many areas they need an update. In fact, when we vote against this proposal, it is because we think it is fair that a 17-year-old and a 19-year-old who have voluntarily married and maybe have a child together can be accommodated together. So that's actually not the question for me in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102130741	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102130743	But does the rapporteur not agree that it may look voluntary when a 17-year-old and a 19-year-old come to Denmark, but that they may in fact have been forced to marry several years before they come here? And does the rapporteur really have such great faith that, in a week or 14 days, it will be possible to assess the voluntary nature of such a marriage?
ParlaMint-DK_20171102130803	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102130804	In fact, I have a relatively high degree of confidence that you can uncover that. The Minister has introduced the practice of separating them as a starting point to get this timeout so that you can reasonably quickly identify whether it is voluntary or not. Then you can talk to the girl and tell her that in Denmark you can't force marry anyone and there are these possibilities if you don't want to be in this marriage. Then you quickly give these opportunities so that you can quickly clarify whether it is voluntary or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102130834	Thank you to Mrs Laura Lindahl. And then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102130848	Thank you. The motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party that we are debating today is about the fact that we must forcibly separate young asylum couples categorically. In other words, as I understand the motion for a resolution, we must both ignore the individual assessment, that is to say, look at the couples, and also the consultation of the parties, which means that we must first ask the couple whether they want to or not. Let me be quite clear about some of the points raised by the Minister: the alternative would really, really like to protect these young women and these couples. It is absolutely crucial for us that we do not have forced marriages, which is why it is of course also crucial that we separate young married couples who have been forced to marry. What we would like to do in this context is what we are also doing under Danish law, namely that we ask the parties. We ask the young woman what she wants. And as I understand it, that is what the Danish People's Party wants to get away from. And we do not agree with that. So that also means that when we discuss it up here from the platform and the minister makes it sound as if it is the international obligations and conventions that are responsible for the Minister's failure to do what she wants, that is not correct. It is also the international conventions. But it is equally Danish legislation. That is what is called the administrative law, which means asking people. It is a fundamental principle of our Danish legal system that if you want to make an intrusive decision against some people in Denmark, you have to ask them first. That is also what the Ombudsman of the Danish Parliament has clearly explained, since the Ombudsman of the Danish Parliament announced that the first way the Minister did so when she issued an illegal order was • yes • illegal because we did not ask them first. Now the Danish People's Party wants us to ignore Danish legislation, disregard the principles of administrative law and our international obligations. After all, both are essential to our democracy, so I am really wondering. For we live in a democracy where the most fundamental democratic principles are our legal certainty and our rights. And that should apply to everyone who lives in Denmark. Because when you live as a citizen of a democratic society, you have the right to speak and be heard in matters that are crucial to your life before a decision is taken. This is an absolute principle, and this applies especially to these young women, whom we may be in doubt about in marriages that they may not have voluntarily entered into. Then it is absolutely crucial that we ask them. Today it is so that when an asylum couple arrives at an asylum centre in Denmark, and if one is less than 15 years old, they will of course be separated immediately. And that's what they have to do. They're under the age of sex. It is also the case that when an asylum couple arrives in Denmark, where it turns out that one party is between 15 and 18 years old, then over the age of sex, the two will be accommodated in separate rooms, and then you will make an individual assessment of how they are to be accommodated in the future. This is according to the new guidelines issued in 2016. That is to say, they are asked. You don't cut them over a comb. I think that is a good practice. And one of the things I support is that we should remember to ask people in accordance with Danish legislation. That is why we cannot support this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102131308	That gave rise to a question from Mr. Marcus Knuth from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102131313	Thank you. Now the rapporteur has been very critical of the otherwise laudable intentions of the Minister on this whole issue of accommodation for minors, so I would like to hear the rapporteur on the same subject that I heard the rapporteur on the Enhedslisten. Can the rapporteur support the current practice of separating couples as a starting point where one party is a minor? Or would the rapporteur, if it were up to the rapporteur, change the current practice?
ParlaMint-DK_20171102131344	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102131345	I think I said this in my rapporteur's speech, because I reproduced the guidelines for the accommodation of underage asylum seekers from 1 July 2016 after which to act at the moment, that is to say today, which means, as it says: when an asylum couple comes to Denmark, where it turns out that one party is between 15 and 18 years old, they will be accommodated in each of their rooms, and then you will make the individual assessment of whether they should be separated, whether they should remain separate or whether they should live together. I support this, if that is the case, that it will not be too long before they may be able to live together again if both of them wish. And there it is that the Institute of Human Rights, as I remember it, it is free memory that it must take a maximum of 14 days. It is of course crucial that we do not let them live separately for three months, because then we will not comply with Danish legislation either.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102131429	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next one is sir. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102131443	Thank you very much. Since the rapporteur of the Radicals cannot be present, I must state our position on this. I am in the happy situation that I have not followed this matter on the nearest track all the way through, but only from the sidelines, and that is why I might also be able to cut our position a little bit so that it can be understood. It has thus seen two elements: one is that we in the Radical Left of course believe that no people, no girls, no women, should live in a relationship that they do not want. We should not accept coercion in Denmark, nor should we. The second principle is basically just as simple, namely that of course you have to hear the girls that it is about. Anything else would then be completely irresponsible and unacceptable, apart from the fact that it would be contrary to both Danish and international law. It is therefore not difficult to come to the conclusion that the proposal put forward here by the Danish People's Party cannot be supported.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102131547	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is SF's, and that is Mr SF's. Carl Valentin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102131555	Thank you. In Denmark we have democracy. This means that it is on the basis of the will of the people that we have a rule of law, and a rule of law means that the law must be observed. One of the laws is that if a state with all its power and power will separate me from my family, it should at least ask me what I think of the idea myself. It is called a party hearing, and we are very much in favour of this in the Socialist People's Party. And so simple can actually be said when I have to explain why we are against the proposal from the Danish People's Party. If I am to elaborate, I will have to stress, although it should not be necessary for me to have the least respect for forced marriages, child bride or all sorts of other religious abominations. They do not belong in Denmark, they do not actually belong anywhere in the world. I can only agree with the Danish People's Party. That is why I am also pleased that today, as a starting point, we are separating refugee couples where one party is under 18, because that is what we are doing today, despite the fact that some people are trying to make it sound different. When the Minister of Integration launched his illegal instruction, all the couples over whom the Danish People's Party called bonfires and fires were separated or on their way to become so, with the exception of one couple, who were separated shortly after. When the Minister of Integration launched the instruction, which resulted in Denmark doing for a short period of time what the Danish People's Party wanted and ignoring the right to party hearing, it was not long before the Red Cross reported depression, isolation, self-harming behaviour and outright suicide attempts by some of the girls involved. It may be surprising if it is the girls that the Danish People's Party wants to protect that they will not be granted the minimum right, that they are allowed to say their opinion, and that the authorities should take note of it. For the above reasons, the SF votes against the motion for a resolution of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102131800	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102131812	The Danish People's Party wishes to impose on the government a legal situation whereby no minor asylum seeker is accommodated with his or her spouse. We in the Conservative People's Party fully agree with the Danish People's Party that there is a problem with child bride and underage girls who are forced to live with a man they do not want to live with. Often it is a matter of coercion, and you can actually equate it with rape. We should not stamp this out in Denmark, and often those girls are exploited in refugee camps, where families almost sell them to older men. At least we should not stamp it out in Denmark. The problem is a challenge which has also received attention and we have no doubt about where the Minister is in this matter. We are convinced that the Minister is doing everything possible to address the problem within the framework of legislation and our international obligations. Sometimes you get a little tired of the obligations that force us to do something that is actually contrary to the fundamental rights of girls in such a situation. However, as we understand it, the system today is such that joint accommodation of a minor collector is only in exceptional cases. Otherwise, the starting point is not to be accommodated together, and we must stick to that. But there may also be cases where life is voluntary, for example between a 17-year-old girl approaching the 18-year-olds and a 19-20-year-old man, so it is not appropriate to separate the couples. The proposal envisages that it should no longer be possible to make special exceptions for married couples and couples who wish to be accommodated together, where circumstances justify it. In other words, the DF's motion for a resolution does not include any possibility of exceptions, which is why we cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102132033	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Bendixen, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102132037	Thank you. With Mr. Naser Khaders has to be assumed to have knowledge of Islam and thereby social control, and what it is, Mr. Doesn't Khader understand the concern that the Danish People's Party has about how much we get the girl's volunteering in this? Sir. Naser Khader himself mentions a 17-year-old, who may in fact have been married at the age of 13 under compulsion, and who, because of social control, not only gets to say what she thinks after 14 days, but gets to say what she should say according to Islam's rules for that sort of thing. Could we have a comment on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20171102132125	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102132127	I mean, in those cases where you're dealing with 12-13-year-olds, I refuse to believe that they have chosen it for themselves. Even if you ask them, it is not always they will admit it, and in those cases I am very uncompromising: those girls should not be with a man who is older than themselves. But there are a number of examples of cases where a 17-year-old is married to a 19-20-year-old and has chosen it himself, and there I think there should be room for those special exceptions. And then we have to make up with the other cases... that is, a 17-year-old girl who has two children probably hasn't chosen it herself when she was 13 years old. So I am totally opposed to us blue-stamping child marriages, especially when there is doubt that there has been voluntaryness in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102132229	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102132232	Is Mr. Is Khader willing to look at that part of the international conventions that includes the right to family life? However, according to the children's convention, everyone under 18 years of age is children, and Danish legislation is very good. According to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, the right to family life should apply equally to a father and mother who is over 18 years of age and in which the child is under 18 years of age, and therefore not, as interpreted today, that it is the right of an adult to live with a child.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102132306	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102132307	Well, we have said several times that we open up to challenge the conventions, look at the conventions. Now we have the Presidency of the Council of Europe and I hope we can challenge the European Convention on Human Rights when we have the presidency there.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102132326	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we have reached the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr Beyer de Ryke. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102132334	Thank you for that, President. The motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party should be seen as an attempt to get the debate back on track. For us, it is very much about the girls and about the fact that there are certain cultural standards that we do not want in Denmark. I think the example that Mrs Pernille Bendixen has used a few times in this debate is quite excellent. Because we don't have a Chinese man's chance to find out what happened in the country of origin. That's why we think the doubt should benefit the girls. If that's the way they end up with a residence permit in Denmark... get asylum... and then they still want to live together and that's voluntary, well then they can do it. But because what's going on in some of these environments is so opaque, we think there's a need to say that the starting point is that you always have to separate. The Danish People's Party does not agree that there should be an opportunity to accommodate underage asylum seekers together with any spouses or couples. In our opinion, this is contrary to Danish tradition, culture and marriage law when we experience young girls who come to the country with older spouses, and it is not right that Denmark should refrain from coming to the rescue of these girls by having them separated from their spouse for misunderstood reasons of tradition elsewhere in the world. The Danish People's Party therefore believes that the government should already ensure, when asylum seekers arrive in Denmark, that under no circumstances minors asylum seekers are accommodated with any partner or spouse. It will contribute to the normalisation of conditions at asylum centres that they reflect as far as possible Danish conditions, values and rules under which asylum seekers may also be expected to comply if they subsequently receive asylum in Denmark. The rules in Denmark are that, as a general rule, one must be of age to get married, and the Danish People's Party sees no reason to depart from this tradition for the sake of foreign cultural standards. Then it is stated both here, but also elsewhere in the debate, that in certain situations it may be contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights, Article 8 on the right to respect for family life, and the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child to separate child bride from their spouses or intercourses. The Danish People's Party disagrees with this and believes that the proposal precisely protects children's right to be children. If it really is true that international conventions require Denmark to accept marriage between a child and an adult, then in our view it should just give us the opportunity to maintain that we will separate the couples mentioned, with reference to the fact that Danish laws adopted on the basis of the Danish Empire's Basic Law naturally take precedence over the international conventions. We have, of course, listened to the debate by the Danish People's Party. In any case, we note that during the time when there has been a public debate on the phenomenon of child bride in Danish asylum centres, the positive thing has been that practice has been tightened up, so the starting point is that couples are now separated. There are still some couples who are allowed to live together. However, some improvements have been made in this area. We would like to go a step further, but we must then note that unfortunately there is no support for this in the Folketing. After all, however, there are some things that have been drawn in the right direction, and of course we are satisfied with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102132641	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171102132658	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday, 3 November 2017, at 3 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
