ParlaMint-DK_20170314130016	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314130018	I give the floor to the Prime Minister for an introductory statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314130027	Thank you very much. Last week, many people focused on the first 100 days of the Triple Government, and this is of course also interesting, although I am sure that the next hundreds of days will be even more interesting. But now, 100 days is 100 days. Then you can do some kind of status, and I'd be happy to do that. On the same day, I marked that it was 616 days since I became prime minister last. If you look at how things have developed since then, there is actually a lot to enjoy. There have been 79,000 more private jobs created; 11,000 fewer unemployed; 29,000 fewer on cash benefits, for example. Because a lot of people are now on the lower level of integration, fortunately there is a majority, although not as large as one might wish, who will take responsibility for, and who so encourage people with a foreign background to seek employment. It can also be done, among other things. If we look at the fact that a year ago we said that only a very, very small part of those who came in were ready for work, then today it is more than half. We can welcome the fact that the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule have entered into force and that, since it was announced, there are 5,200 fewer so-called full-time persons in the cash benefits system. After all, it has also been helped by the good economic climate, which means that unemployment is now the lowest we have experienced in 40 years, with the exception of the years 2007 and 2008 with overheating. We've made a trialogue deal. It used to be a wreck, now it's back to normal. The latest tripartite agreement must provide up to 10,000 more internships. We have tightened the Aliens Act 48 times, corrected the relaxations under the Socialist-led governments, and we have helped to bring the number of migrants and refugees under control. In February 2017, the number of asylum seekers was the lowest it has been for 1 month for 7 years. At the same time, we have invested in core welfare. Since the elections, we have allocated billions of dollars to health and the elderly. Nearly 4,000 state jobs are on their way out of the capital and into the rest of the country, and that is only the first wave. Several police officers are in training. A PSP agreement provides a huge growth contribution to Danish business, while maintaining the green transition. Housing job scheme, secondary school reform, new planning law, new fighter planes, agricultural package, sharpened penalties for violence and rape • a series of things that have made Denmark stronger. That's the 616 days. What if you zoom in on the last 100 of these 616 days? Yes, on average, a political agreement has been made a week, almost all with a broad majority, among other things. on improving medical coverage, Europol, new motorways, the implementation of a dementia action plan for 470 million. kr. These are good agreements, and thank you for your support for them. But we need to move on with a housing tax agreement to make the homeowners tranquil; with a gang agreement which I hope will soon come into place, which will create more security and security; with a better and coherent offer to the far too many young people who have neither a baccalaureate nor a bill of employment seven years after they have left primary school. Following collective bargaining, we, together with the social partners, will start a new trialogue on adult and continuing training so that more people will have better skills throughout their working life. Does that mean we're in the finish line? No, it doesn't. I want a freer, richer and more secure Denmark where we have growth and development and where we get everyone with us. The more that supports that ambition, the more results we can create for the Danes. That is why I would urge and work to ensure that the next 100 days and also the 100 days following them, and the 100 days following them, in other words the next two years, will see a Parliament where everyone goes on track to make Denmark stronger. Now this is an extended question time. It's always a pleasure. That was my meeting with the Greenland Committee on 2 March, too, thank you for that. I think we had a very constructive discussion on that occasion and I hope it can continue here today. This also applies to our Faroese members. Congratulations, sir. Sjúrður Skaale, 50 years old last week. This is also an opportunity to take stock. One might even ask: How are you, sir? Sjúrður Skaale? Hvussu gongur? But maybe we can come back to that later in Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314130519	Thank you. We now move on to questions from the party leaders. The questioner and Prime Minister both have up to 2 minutes' speaking time. Two follow-up questions follow, each with one minute's speaking time for the questioner and the Prime Minister. It is first Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, IA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314130539	Thank you very much for the floor. Interest in Greenland and the Arctic has clearly increased over the last few years, and as a representative of the Danish Parliament in the Committee on Arctic Parliamentarians this is very noticeable. In the Arctic we work very consensus-oriented, very dialogue-oriented, and there is a common desire to preserve the Arctic peacefully. Fortunately, this was also confirmed last week when I was with the Foreign Policy Name in Norway and Russia. Last week, the Center for Military Studies published a report which included: was about the so-called Greenland Card, which is estimated to have weakened its defence policy importance for Denmark. In short, the Greenland map is about Greenland's significant geostrategic location for NATO and is thus defence policy, you might say, currency for Denmark. As Greenlandic MPs, we now have no influence on the present defence settlement, just as Naala Suisut is only informed about the defence measures in Greenland. I think it is important to say from the point of view of the IA that we do not think this is satisfactory. The report from the Center for Military Studies also recommends the following: • It is therefore necessary to involve Greenlandic authorities and politicians more systematically and to think in new ways in which Greenland can become involved in the relevant processes. ▪ If Denmark wishes to continue to have a good and constructive cooperation with Greenland in the future, involvement and respect are crucial. If Denmark wants to be a so-called Arctic power, as was described in the Taksøe-Jensen report, then it requires closer dialogue and mutual respect in relation to the conditions and interests that Greenland considers important. For a large number of the eight Arctic countries, the Arctic has come very high on the major political agenda, and the Arctic is very central in these countries. If we want to play a greater role in foreign and security policy globally, we need more effective involvement of Greenlandic members of parliament, of Inatsisartut and of Naalaksuisut. What I think is quite interesting is that the same report also mentions the suggestion that there should be a minister for the Arctic. In fact, this is something that Inuit Ataqatigiit has suggested in the past. Yes, please! ) That is why I ask the Prime Minister, who is also the Minister for the Commonwealth: if the Prime Minister himself should say what importance Greenland has for the foreign policy role of the Commonwealth Yes, thank you!), what would the Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-DK_20170314130827	Speaking time has passed! Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314130831	Thank you. Greenland has a major and important role to play. That goes without saying. In other words, the extent of the kingdom with Denmark, with the Faroe Islands and with Greenland means, by its very nature, that we have a geopolitical role qua the geographical location which is important, and with it also comes a responsibility, and I am very much in agreement with the analysis which was presented here about the increasing importance of the Arctic and also the importance of maintaining it as a low-voltage area. This is a place where, at a time when there are many security policy challenges to be identified, we have, at least so far, been able to deal with peaceful cooperation with Russia on search and rescue, etc. So that is quite essential, and that is also what we have been able to read from the analysis that Ambassador Peter Taksøe-Jensen has made for the government, which is the basis for the development of the foreign policy strategy that the government is currently working on and which we will come back to the Danish Parliament with at some point in order to have a thorough debate on, and which must, of course, form the basis for prioritising all the instruments included in the foreign policy toolbox, that is to say, our trade policy, our defence policy, our multilateral efforts, our European policy, our commitment to NATO, etc. In this context, I also think it is important that Greenland's aspects should be included in the discussions, and that is also why we have signalled what I would also like to do here that, when preparing proposals for defence policy negotiations and other, of course, we will also include the North Atlantic members in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314131030	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314131032	Thank you very much for the words. I would like to move on to a completely different subject, which also takes up my time as a Greenlandic parliamentarian, and that is the area of justice. We have chosen from Inuit Ataqatigiits to take the initiative for a hearing which will take place next week via the Legal Affairs Committee and the Greenland Committee, which is precisely about how we can strengthen the area of justice. From the IA's point of view, we believe that there is a need for a safer Greenland and a strengthened justice system, and I think it is very positive that both Minister of Justice Søren Pape Poulsen and Naalakkersuisoq for justice, Sara Olsvig, come and open this hearing. Because I believe that there is a need for us to work together to find solutions in order to strengthen the area of justice. In 2009, Greenland gained autonomy, and the Act of Self-Government also states that the Kingdom units are equal. In Inuit Ataqatigiit, as I said, we see the cooperation as a prerequisite for an appropriate development in Greenland, and in the area of justice it is crucial that the different areas play together and that we coordinate the efforts that are made. The social...
ParlaMint-DK_20170314131143	Yes, please! Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314131148	I am a little short, at least in relation to the concept of Question Time, because I had the feeling that we were approaching a question to which I had to answer, and I am almost inclined to believe, if I can guess the question, that I would confirm what Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen was saying, namely that it is important that, in this area too, although it has been taken home, we continue to cooperate constructively. That is why I would also like to acknowledge that the Minister for Justice has made himself available for the hearing referred to.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314131219	I would remind you that there is only one minute and it is always good to start with the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314131224	Then I will start with the question and ask the Prime Minister whether he believes that the legal conditions that we have in Greenland, especially if you look at the figures that reflect the reality of Greenland, give us reason to strengthen the area of justice. If I am to highlight some figures, we can see that there has been an increase in the reporting rate and that crime in Greenland is generally extremely high globally and that there is a need for stronger action in the area of justice in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314131258	Thank you. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314131301	After all, the government will work to ensure that standards in the Danish responsibilities in Greenland also correspond to standards in Denmark, and that of course also applies in the field of justice here, of course, one can say, with an adaptation to or reflection of the particular circumstances that may exist, and that is also the reason why in the Ministry of Justice, among other things. I am currently looking at the report that I know a working party of the Council of Lawyers has produced, and I can refer to the Minister of Justice for questions in this regard. I think it is important that we delve deeper into this, as has also been proposed with the process to which Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen referred a moment ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314131353	Thank you. That concludes the question. Then it's Mrs. Aleqa Hammond, outside the party groups. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314131408	I was very pleased to hear the Prime Minister's opening speech, where the Prime Minister drew our attention to the initiatives that have been taken which have made Denmark stronger. In this context, I hope that the initiatives taken by the Prime Minister will also make Greenland stronger, compared with Greenland making Denmark stronger today • not only in relation to Greenland's geostrategic location, but also in relation to geopolitical aspects for the future, which will ultimately make not only Denmark stronger, but also Greenland stronger. The agreement on the presence of the Americans in Greenland should in fact be an initiative which not only makes Denmark stronger, but should also make Greenland stronger than it is today. Today, Greenland is faced with major dilemmas in terms of our positions with regard to the Americans. In addition to being pleased that the Americans are defending us, there are also many aspects in Greenlandic society that make us question the presence of the Americans in Greenland, both in terms of the leftovers of the Americans, but also in terms of jobs that ensure Greenlandic society better than is the case today. Last year, during the autumn session in Inatsisartut, it was agreed unanimously that Naalaksuisut should be required to ensure that a better agreement is worked out in relation to the presence of the Americans in Greenland. In this context, a unified Inatsisartut said that Greenland cannot accept the current situation, where Greenland and Greenlandic society are not guaranteed any benefits from the agreement complex concluded between the United States and the Kingdom of Denmark under the 1951 defence agreement and subsequent supplementary agreements. In this context, I would like to ask the Prime Minister what action the Prime Minister will take to ensure that this will be an agreement which will also make Greenland stronger.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314131611	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314131613	Thank you. First of all, may I regret that weather or otherwise, and this is not Mrs Aleqa Hammond's fault, did not allow Mrs Aleqa Hammond to attend the meeting we had with the Greenland Committee in the Prime Minister's Office last week, where we had a better opportunity than we can have in question time here, both in terms of time and, incidentally, details, to discuss the issues that are now being raised. It is certainly evident that we have a challenge in relation to Thule, and the government is working on that in a negotiating path with the United States, which we also had the opportunity to go a little deeper into during the meeting in my office last week. Because I want to point to the place as the place where action is actually needed, and that is a clue we are in.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314131713	Here you go, Mrs. Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314131715	This month is a very important month as regards the negotiations between the United States and Denmark regarding the service contract in Pitufik. It is the only strong map that Greenland has with regard to the presence of the Americans in Greenland. It does not look as if we have had any clarification as to whether we keep the service contract in the Danish Kingdom or whether it is going to belong to the Americans. At a time when it is very uncertain and with an agreement of such great importance for political cooperation between Greenland and Denmark, the whole negotiation process has taken place under very closed conditions, which I find very difficult to see the reason for. In this context, I would like to ask the Prime Minister where the kingdom stands. Are we also strong in our negotiations with the Americans on the service contract?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314131820	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314131821	Yes, that is, the service contract is important both for Greenland and for Denmark, and there has been a legal trail. I am also aware that Greenland Contractors have asked for a reopening of the trial before the Court of First Instance. It is still unclear how important it is for further progress. After all, we were very keen to see rapid clarification and were also in dialogue with the former American administration. Now, in the meantime, there has been a new one, and there is the whole question of how Greenland Contractors' position will put itself in the processes. So this case hasn't come up with a solution yet. It is the Minister for Foreign Affairs who is responsible for this matter, and I shall refer to him for further information and just say briefly again that, in connection with the meeting we had last week in the Prime Minister's Office with the Greenland Committee with the framework that was at that meeting, namely better time and a better opportunity to be detailed about it, we also turned this matter over, but in the question hour here today I probably cannot get much closer.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314131933	Mrs. Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314131935	The government's basis says that legal certainty must be better guaranteed than it is today, and that also applies to legal certainty in Greenland. Already back in 2004, after ten years of work, the Greenland Judicial Commission came up with a very comprehensive report containing recommendations in the area of justice in Greenland, and this very important report makes it very clear in which areas of justice in Greenland are to be improved. A very, very small part of them has been implemented, but there is far from guaranteeing legal certainty in Greenland that is on an equal footing with legal certainty in other parts of Denmark. When the Prime Minister in the government base says that legal certainty must be the same everywhere, including when it comes to Greenland, and we have a very large backlog, I would like to ask where the Prime Minister intends to start by ensuring better legal certainty in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314132032	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314132035	We intend to start it by continuing the excellent cooperation we have with Greenland. We mentioned this earlier in the question from Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. It is clear that there are many challenges associated with Greenland. The area we are looking at now is one of them, but in general there are major challenges in Greenland's society: there are economic conditions that are fairly reasonable at the moment, but there is a huge structural deficit on the horizon • so there are many things that need to be done. Much of that says Greenland, and the other is Danish responsibility, and something else is a shared responsibility. And, of course, I believe that we are in constructive dialogue and are also in the area of legal policy. As we mentioned earlier, the Minister of Justice has made himself available. Various concrete measures have been taken in relation to municipal officers and other things to ensure that in this area in Greenland you do it better or more up to date than you could have done in the past, but there are still challenges, and we want to work together on them.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314132143	Thank you. The question is closed. Then it's mr. Magni Arge, Tjóðveldi.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314132158	Thank you, Madam President. Theresa May was blessed yesterday in the House of Commons to press the button for Britain's withdrawal from the EU, but she hesitated about the execution because Scotland's first lady, Nicola Sturgeon, came before her. She stated that Scotland wants a referendum on independence by 2019 if it becomes a hard Brexit. Developments in Great Britain have a major impact on both Danish and Faroese economics and social conditions, and it can be difficult to get a proper picture of the consequences. After all, Faroese welfare is largely based on access to fisheries resources on the one hand and access to markets on the other. It is precisely the UK that is of great importance in this context, because the European map of sovereign fishing nations and independent markets can be radically changed when Britain comes out of the European Union. It will also be very important for Denmark's trade interests and access to fishing resources when Britain resigns. What, then, is the main scenario that the government and, for that matter, the EU are working on regarding Britain's exit? Are we going for a hard Brexit, which isolates the British market, and will we support the Scots' desire for an independent Scotland to become a member of the European Union? Does the Prime Minister's Office have an opinion on how the new European map of sovereign fishing nations can trigger a new rivalry between Faroese and Danish interests, for example. Pelagic fishing?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314132338	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314132343	As far as the latter is concerned, I am very, very aware that the whole question of fisheries policy is one of the very, very great challenges that we can well face in the wake of Brexit. That is also why, on the day following the vote in Britain, we set up an inter-ministerial task force to identify Danish offensive and defensive interests. It goes without saying that when a lot of fish is unloaded from British territory, there is a risk. We are very, very aware of that. I do not think I am doing anything good about the Danish negotiating position or, by the way, for the EU by standing and fabulating about what is going to happen. It is absolutely crucial that things come in the right order. We're waiting for Britain to trigger this article 50. I have also seen that there are some processes in the British Parliament that are falling into place. It is probably expected that this will happen later in March, but probably only after the Rome Summit at the end of the month, and then we have to get started. I can tell you what the overall attitude is. We want to bring about a future relationship with the United Kingdom that will ensure that Britain is as close to Europe as possible. That's the wish we have. It is natural, since it is not we who have had a desire for them to leave the community. So we want the closest possible relationship that is based on a balance between rights and duties. That's the vision we have. The British market means a lot to Denmark. The European continent also means a great deal to British business and the closer relations we can maintain, the better. But it is clear that it has to be a balance between duties and rights. How much of the vision that can be lived out depends initially on how Britain itself is playing up to the negotiations that are about to begin.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314132542	Here you go, sir. Magni Arge.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314132545	Then we come to the second question. I know it may be difficult to falsify about it, but Nicola Sturgeon has pressed the button and said: now we want a vote on Scottish independence. And they would then like to join the European Union. But it is a relevant question to deal with, because they have clearly expressed that. But it is also extremely important for the Faroe Islands, because if Scotland is part of the European Union, it is the European Union with which we have to negotiate on fisheries resources. If they remain part of Britain, it will be a new coastal state to which we must relate. Is it also a discussion that you are holding, if I may say so, open to the Faroese Government, so that one is aware of where Denmark, which is actually responsible for the overall foreign policy, stands, but where one can easily come into conflict with the Faroese interest in this matter?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314132638	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314132639	May I not first say in relation to uncovering Denmark's challenges and where there may be opportunities there are a little less of them than the challenges of a Brexit • that there are always opportunities. For example, there is a Medicines Agency in the UK that needs to be replaced if they leave the cooperation, and here Denmark has a fantastic case. However, it is perhaps the exception that confirms the general rule that it is primarily a challenge. But I cannot stand here today and deal with scenarios of a Scottish vote and other things, since it is not at all clear whether there is going to be such a vote, under what conditions and with what time perspective it is taking place. So I can't. We need to take things in the right order. It starts with Britain triggering Article 50. I guess it happens here at the end of the month, you have to believe, and then we start. I have tried in round but also relatively precise terms to say: what is the vision we are going into here about?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314132755	Thank you. Here you go, sir. Magni Arge.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314132758	However, we cannot escape the fact that it will be of interest to the European Union if Scotland remains part of the European Union, because then at least you have the right to have all the sea areas that belong to Scotland. On the other hand, it will also provide a good impetus in the process of independence in the Faroe Islands. I'm sure you're aware of that. There was one question I didn't get the answer to the last time I asked the Prime Minister. That is why the Danish Government now has such a restrictive attitude towards Faroese membership of the Nordic Council when Anker Jørgensen presented a similar proposal in 1980. What has done to interpret the Constitution so differently in 1980 and 2016?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314132839	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314132842	I can easily see that the European picture looks different, depending on whether there is an independent Scotland or not. I can, but that doesn't make me throw myself into this debate. I consider this to be a matter for the United Kingdom in the first place. I think we should respect that. As far as the Nordic Council is concerned, I am not in a position to explain exactly what further consideration Anker Jørgensen may have given in 1980. I can rely on the fact that this government, like previous governments, has its constitutional interpretations based on the contribution of the Ministry of Justice. This is a discussion we have had at many times, and the conclusions do not shy away from time to time. With this in mind, I would like to say that we have also worked in the Nordic Council to resolve matters as pragmaticly as possible, but the questioner is also aware that it is not just a question of how Denmark views full Faroese membership. It is also a question of how other Scandinavian countries do it. That is why I believe that what we should concentrate on would be within the framework of the Constitution that we have to set up our cooperation and our cooperation, each externally, with other parties as pragmatic as possible, and I think that is also permissible.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314133019	Thank you. That concludes the question. Then it's mr. Sjúrður Skaale Javnaðarflokkurin.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314133028	Thank you. I want to start by thanking the Prime Minister for his greeting. Yes, thank you. It can only go well. I understand, therefore, that we agree that things are going well. We have also agreed that things are going well in the Kingdom community, but we still see things a little differently in general terms. I believe that it is a political arrangement that is greater than the constitution, that is, where the constitution is a subset, but the Prime Minister has repeatedly said that the constitution is the absolute framework of the Kingdom Community. It may sound like a very philosophical discussion, but it has become concrete, and it can get it back. I know it's very difficult to change the PM's position on this case, but even if you only have a little hammer and hit a big stone time and time again, it breaks in the end. The Hammer is my little question here, and the stone is the PM's position. I'm sure there's gonna be a little blow here. In the United States, there has been a new concept called alternative facts. You have a picture with few people, that's the facts. The alternative facts are that in the same picture there are many people. If we look at the picture of the Faroe Islands, we see a country that is in a good community with Denmark, but has its own parliament, its own economy, its own tax system, its own relations with other countries, etc., that is, a country that has actually grown beyond the framework of the constitution. But then there are the alternative facts of the Prime Minister's Office, namely that it is the Constitution that sets the absolute framework for the Kingdom, the Constitution that does not mention the Kingdom with a word, and describes Denmark's kingdom as a unitary state, thus describing a reality that does not exist. Does the Prime Minister think that his ministry will ever acknowledge the facts, or will it be kept to the alternative facts, that it is the Constitution that sets the absolute framework for the Kingdom community?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314133223	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314133225	Thank you. Now it is usually journalists that I come at odds with when I begin to attack the premises of the question, and we must have a good relationship. But I cannot answer such a question, which is based on the fact that what we say from the facts are alternative facts, and then I have to say whether we will ever recognise the facts by which I would like to accept that the facts that we use now do not exist, but they are alternative. It's gonna be something weird. Facts are facts, and so it is
ParlaMint-DK_20170314133306	Let's move on. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314133308	As I said, the stone is hard to crack, but I hit again with my little hammer. I don't think it's gonna last. I don't think that's a fact. An adult person is e.g. a subject in criminal law. This means that an adult can be sentenced to prison if he steals and therefore does not comply with his criminal obligations. And that person is indivisible. If he steals with his right hand, the right hand can't be put in prison while the rest of his body goes free. It's one subject, you might say. In international law, it is also the case that a single state is a subject of international law. However, the fact is that in 2013 Denmark, together with the EU, took very strong sanctions against the Faroe Islands on the grounds that the Faroe Islands did not comply with its obligations under international law. In other words, one subject of international law, Denmark, the European Union, sanctioned another subject of international law, namely the Faroe Islands. Will the Prime Minister nevertheless stick to what I call alternative facts, i.e. that Denmark is an indivisible unitary state, and that in 2013 we had to do with something similar to a person's one hand being put in prison?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314133418	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314133419	Well, Erasmus Montanus hasn't lived in vain or whatever I have to say. I have to repeat that the Constitution is the legal framework of the Kingdom Community. With respect for that framework, we have developed what, moreover, in the international community, I myself would say, is exemplary: I had almost said the highest degree of self-government that is compatible with it. It is arranged by law in the Faroe Islands, in Greenland. There is also full respect for the fact that you want to continue along this path of creating an identity paper or a constitution or whatever words you want to use now. I have only one red line, and it is not one I have invented, but it is because it follows my duties, just as it goes with the rest of Parliament's duties, because we signed it the first time we were elected, namely that we will respect the constitution of the empire, and that is that it is done within the framework of it. Within the framework of it is the country, i.e. the Faroe Islands, equipped with many, many competences, and there are in fact a few things that we handle within the framework of the Kingdom Community. And if you take that as a basis, you can develop and develop a continuing harmonious cooperation with full respect for your own identity and interests. And I also believe that we can find practical solutions in situations where we are objectively challenged by the fact that Denmark is in the EU and that the Faroe Islands are outside.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314133600	Thank you! There's one minute left for each. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314133603	I fully agree that, as I said, it is working very well. The pragmatic solution is what has made it a success. But surely there is no Erasmus Montanus by saying that when Denmark penalises the Faroe Islands for breaking its obligations under international law, there can be no such subject under international law. I'm sorry to say that. You're on opposite sides of a very red line. I believe that the reason why the Community of the Kingdom has been a success is that time and again it has gone against the warnings of the official work and has gone beyond the framework of the constitution and has given the Faroe Islands greater and greater powers, so that they cannot be withdrawn today and so that, as most state law experts say, they are now outside the scope of the Constitution. Does the Prime Minister agree that this is the key to the success story that the Kingdom community has become, that is to say that it has moved where it has been politically necessary and that it has not been restricted by very rigid legal interpretations?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314133703	Thank you. Then it's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314133704	No, I don't actually agree with that, because I'm not familiar with it. And if that is the case, I would, of course, like to be taught about it. However, I am not aware that any steps have been taken in the area of autonomy, autonomy and transfer of competences, which have not also been anchored in a professional assessment that it was constitutional. So I am not aware that there should be situations where there has been a professional legal document saying that this is not in accordance with the constitution and that the politicians have then said that they are not, but we are just doing it anyway. Actually, I'm not familiar with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314133736	Thank you. The question is closed. We move on to Mrs Mette Frederiksen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314133744	Now for something quite different. We are in the world community right now, and in Europe in particular, in an historic refugee and migrant crisis. More than 60 million people are fleeing, and a great many, not least from Africa, want to come to Europe. 180,000 people came last year via the Mediterranean to Italy, but 4,000 lost their lives on the same route, and that figure seems to increase this year. As far as I can see, there is no indication whatsoever that this situation will change. The pressure on Europe will remain great. We have a Middle East on fire, and millions of people will also seek it because of demographic developments in both the Middle East and Africa. Our response as Social Democrats to this challenge is balanced. On the one hand, we must help people flee, but on the other hand, we must ensure that no more people come to our own country and to Europe than we can integrate. In other words, we must be able to keep up with our own society. It is in broad terms as we see the world. With this, I would also like to say that we see the very large flows of people both qua the refugee situation and because of migration as the biggest foreign policy challenge at all that we have to deal with. When I raise the question here before the Prime Minister, it is because I was puzzled when I read an interview with the Foreign Minister, who is directly asked to say that this is not what he, as Foreign Minister, considers to be the most important task. We have to understand that dealing with this very, very serious situation, which also includes a lot of human fates, has gone down the list, and that the biggest foreign policy challenge now is to make Denmark a winner in globalisation. Perhaps even to love globalisation; that is how I think it was expressed. That is why I would like to have a dialogue with the Prime Minister about this. I would like to ask the Prime Minister directly if he agrees that this is not the greatest challenge.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314134013	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314134015	You can see that behind this fancy question there's just an attempt at ordinary teasing. No one can be in any doubt that we are facing a challenge that the government is taking very, very seriously. That is also why there has been a need to tighten up 48 times on the situation that Mrs Mette Frederiksen's party left Denmark in after the last parliamentary elections, where it had been relaxed and relaxed and relaxed, in order to get it under control here. I am delighted to note that this is going the right way. Following a situation in which Europe broke open and the figures exploded, it is a combination of a European action in which Denmark has from day one pressed for the essential first, namely to look after the external borders, rather than having some discussion about how we should move a burden around between the countries. Here we have succeeded in getting some realism that has made it better control than there was and the fact that we have made tightenings that make us now have a figure that was so low in February that we have not seen it for seven years. Then I get a little disgusted when you stand up and semantically try to pick up some point by asking whether the government is serious or not. By God, it's serious. Moreover, it is the shadow of globalisation, which is also serious. And we can do well in this government to deal with more than one difficult challenge at a time. And globalisation, like two sides. The positive side of globalisation is all the opportunities it can create for Danish industry and exports and for prosperity; the negative side is that the world has changed. You can sit in an African village and on your iPhone follow with what level of performance we have in Denmark and how the future looks here. These are complex challenges. And we are giving priority to resolving the challenges that are pressing us, and that is what migratory pressures on Europe do, but also, of course, at the same time, to seeing where there are gains to be gained in a world that is getting smaller and smaller.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314134216	Thank you. Normally we do not have to invoke the higher powers here in the Folketing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314134222	I'm not sure about this either, and I really hope it's not necessary to have this discussion. In fact, I cannot understand why the Prime Minister always thinks that questions are being asked because people want to tease the government. Let us take today's example. When there are problems in the postal sector and the parties of the Folketing, including the government's own support party, want to be informed by the minister concerned, it is a joke, just as when an interview has been asked by the Foreign Minister himself. It is a good thing that the two ministers have an exchange of views now, but it is not me or anyone else who has said the words, it is the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the country, and we usually take the view that there can be only one analysis of the foreign policy pursued. Of course, it brings attention to us too, when the foreign minister of the country suggests that what we others consider to be the greatest challenge is going down the list. You even say that you cannot give priority, but you have to give priority. The fact is that, if we do not reverse the developments that are taking place, we cannot deal with the situation, and that is why strengthening Europe's external borders, ensuring that we manage migration, turning those who do not have an asylum base in Europe around, so that we can keep up with integration at home and thus continue with the tight immigration policy on which we also agree, the whole prerequisite for whether we can have a viable society in the future too.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314134352	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314134354	I would like to sign for the process of recognition which Mrs Mette Frederiksen has undergone with her party on these issues. After four years when, under the strong impression of the Radical Left, Danish immigration policy was relaxed and Danish immigration policy relaxed and, moreover, the figures went up, it is nice to note that this matter is now being looked at in the same way as the rest of us, namely that it challenges us as a nation state, as a civilisation, as a social model, and that is something we need to take seriously. And if the process of recognition also moves completely there, that at some point Mrs Mette Frederiksen embraces the whole immigration policy, including the integration service, which is perhaps one of the most important tools to send out a signal at one and the same time that you should not come here just to come here and if you are here, you will have to provide your services very much, but I do not know if we have yet got there.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314134448	Mrs. Mette Frederiksen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314134449	There is no doubt that a lot of people have moved on to the alien issue and for good reason we have moved. I am happy to do so, and I would very much like to take the discussion with the Prime Minister's party, which has also moved in this area, because of course the seriousness is different than it was decades ago. Perhaps the question and the answer here reveal something a little different, because are we quite sure that the Foreign Minister shares the analysis? It is not long ago that the Foreign Minister was convinced and it was said on several occasions that what was supposed to be the basis of foreign policy was open borders and closed boxes. When I ask about this, it is, of course, because we are interested as a party when the country's Foreign Minister and, indeed, the country's Finance Minister suggest a different foreign policy and a different foreign policy agenda from the one I was hoping we could agree with the government on.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314134559	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314134601	Thank you. Thank you for this insight into how to move over time. It is so little in the air if the move then at some point also includes the benefits of integration, for that would be a strong mark on the part of the Social Democrats. But I'm not the one who can question it here. I can, with normal serenity and now further serenity, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs is sitting here and in his body language, indicate that he agrees with me that what I say covers government policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314134638	That concludes the question. Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go. Then he continues).
ParlaMint-DK_20170314134645	Thank you. Yes, it is tempting, because it has the highest priority, there is no doubt about that, and that is the case. But it is actually a bit of a variant of the debate on immigration for e.g.. Denmark, on which I would like to raise questions. After all, there is an increasing diplomatic crisis with Turkey these days, and I think it is very satisfactory that the Prime Minister has taken the initiative to postpone visits from the Turkish Prime Minister. But what I think this whole debate is bringing about is the question of what in the world we have done that creates the problems that we have now. I am thinking of the fact that there are quite a large number of Turks in Denmark, the Netherlands and Germany in particular, who evidently feel that it is important for them to interfere in what is happening in Turkey rather than being citizens of the country in which they now live. I believe that Germany is, somewhat unofficially, the fourth largest constituency of Turkey. This means, of course, that Turkish politicians must go to our countries to argue for what to vote for elections in Turkey. It doesn't make any sense. What I can at least illustrate is that there is a place where Danish legislation has made a mistake and I hope to be able to get the Prime Minister to agree that this is a mistake and that perhaps we could jointly correct that mistake and that is that a short time ago we allowed dual citizenship so that it is really now possible to serve two countries at one and the same time. I think that immigrants who come to Denmark must choose. They have to choose Denmark on or off, and when they choose Denmark on, for example, they choose Denmark on or off. the Danish democracy too, and so it is in Denmark that they must exercise their democratic rights and can stand for election to the Folketing etc. So when you become a Danish citizen, you should not be voting in Turkish elections. I think this is an absurdity, just as it would be if people from other countries felt that it was in these countries that they should exercise their democratic rights rather than in Denmark if they chose to apply for Danish citizenship. It was in 2015, shortly before the last elections, the rules were changed, among others. because the Left changed its position in relation to their original position on dual citizenship. I would like to hear from the Prime Minister whether, in view of what we are now seeing in relation to Turkey, he can see that this was a mistake and that we must return to the original position that the Left had in this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314134927	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314134929	Thank you. If you make mistakes, of course you should not be too big to admit it, but I do not think that is the case here, and I must start by disappointed by saying that we agree with the agreement we have made with the Liberal Alliance, the SF, the Enhedslisten and the then Social Democratic Radical Government. It is not because, moreover, I do not recognise the analysis of the challenging nature of electoral campaigning on foreign soil and the fact that one does not choose in one's way of life and in one's way of working. I just think it has to be said that these things reflect the world we live in. Now, for example. Presidential elections in France, and the fourth largest French city going to the presidential elections in France, is London, just to give an example. After all, the idea of dual citizenship is driven by a desire that Danes who go out and acquire citizenship in another country can maintain a relationship with Denmark. That's what carried it. And everything has two sides. Without being able to get the figures in the head, I also think it has to be said that with regard to the people of Turkish origin who are, for example, the people of Turkey. In Denmark, it is not the case that if there were no possibility of double citizenship, there would be no Turks resident in Denmark with continued voting rights in Turkey. So with regard to the challenges we face, I have tried to deal with them in the way I have done, namely by kindly, but also by relatively precise saying something about the appropriateness of the timing of a Prime Minister's visit now and thus also sending a signal that we do not want politicians to visit in this critical period. It is an attempt to deal with a situation, but it is not the case that the problem would go away if we simply banned dual citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314135141	Here you go, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314135143	After all, there is a crucial difference between moving from one country to another to settle and work, etc. I mean, I think that this is a different situation than actively asking to become a national of the country to which you have migrated. If you choose actively to apply for citizenship in a new country, it is because you have chosen fully and completely with your roots and all the things that have been written fine Danish hymns about being a citizen of the new country you have come to. So you also cut some ties to the old country. Not because you do not have a past and can have feelings etc., but so, the rapporteur of the Left said back in 2011, when we had a common position on this, that it should be avoided, and I quote that a person through dual citizenship has the right to vote and to stand as a candidate in several countries. When he said that, I would say that I think it is absolutely essential that this should be so. It is of no use that Turks, who are citizens here in Denmark, should have the right to vote in Turkey at the same time. Because if you go first, it makes sense for Turkish politicians to come to Denmark and conduct an election campaign here. And then we get the conflicts that are in Turkey, here to Denmark, and that is exactly what we are looking at. It is, of course, on the basis of what I would at least like to try to convince the Left that this matter should be reconsidered in the light of what we see in these weeks.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314135310	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314135311	I have noted that this is all about, and full respect for it. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl himself acknowledges that migrant workers naturally take their nationality with them and, by their very nature, exercise their democratic rights in the country from which they have wandered. And when we agree on the fact and the fact that a lot of people are wandering, and that is just to attack the analysis a little bit, it will be the case that the challenges we are currently facing, with the fact that there is a Turkish environment in Denmark that has democratic rights in Turkey, would also be there, even if we did not have the dual citizenship rule. Well, then, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl says that if we did not have dual citizenship, there might be some who could no longer fulfil that function in Turkey. But the problem would be there here in Denmark and it would be there in the Netherlands. I am familiar with 400 000 Turks in the Netherlands and I do not think they all have dual citizenship. So it is more about whether we are now getting the debate on the right basis, and what is the cause, and what is the effect? I think that the development we see in Turkey with a democracy in reverse is deeply, deeply worrying. I think that is the main discussion. Our position on dual citizenship is driven by something else, and if it is, like, depicted as if citizenship is the component that could make all the other problems go away, then perhaps I would be prepared to re-evaluate our position from 2015. But I think that's a wrong ending.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314135443	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314135445	In other words, before the change of law in 2015, the starting point was that you could not acquire Danish citizenship if you had citizenship in another country at the same time. There were some exceptions, but that was the general rule. Then it was transformed into that one can now easily obtain Danish citizenship, even if one has another country's citizenship. And if you compare it with people wandering around the world and taking jobs and in periods of their lives are in another country, then you devalue the talk of citizenship. For the Danish People's Party believes that getting Danish citizenship should and should mean so much extra that you are ready with skin and hair, I almost said, to take Danish society and be a part of it and fight for Denmark. Then you don't fight for Turkey, then you fight for Denmark, that is, if you have chosen to be a Danish citizen. So, of course, we want to tighten the criteria for who gets Danish citizenship and at least to ensure that those who want Danish citizenship, if granted, are some who, at the same time, show that they are Danes before they are anything else. It is not the same as that one cannot have roots somewhere and have knowledge of it. However, Denmark has been actively elected, and then there should be no electoral campaign in Turkey or a vote in Turkish elections, and then we would not have the discussion about whether Erdogan or his Prime Minister should go to Denmark and conduct an election campaign. So I would like to say once again that I am just glad that the Prime Minister is aware of the challenges this presents, and I think that this is a perfectly natural consequence in relation to the discussion on dual citizenship, which we in the Danish People's Party will certainly press for to keep on the agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314135613	Thank you. And then it's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314135615	But it is noted that you have that wish. And I have then indicated that, of course, we abide by the political agreements we have made. There is another discussion, then, about what criteria must be met in order to obtain that citizenship. And that's where we've tightened the conditions together several times. It is, moreover, a discussion that I am always open to, because it must of course have a meaning, and one must mean it when choosing Denmark for. After all, there are two reasons why we wanted the dual nationality rule. One is the one I mentioned before, in other words, in relation to Danes who want to maintain an attachment. That is what is being made possible, and with that it also means that rights must apply the other way. The second is the fact that it is very, very difficult to take citizenship from people, because you cannot leave people stateless. And historically we have seen situations where people who have acquired Danish citizenship have subsequently acted in such a way that if we had known that they would do those things, we would hardly have given them that. I must not hide the fact that there are some people who have chosen to maintain their original citizenship, which means that we can take the Danish from them. It is also part of my own overall reflections on whether double citizenship is a good idea. And I guess it just shows that all these cases have some nuances, and what seems to be very simple may not be if you look a little deeper at it. I think it has to be said quite quietly that, regardless of Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl or I will be right in this matter, that is, about what we mean in Denmark, the challenges we face in the Turkish election campaign will still be there.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314135757	Thank you. Here you go, sir. Uffe Elbæk, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314135807	I can already promise that the Prime Minister will be able to say something more about Turkey in a moment, but first I have two green questions. Recently, Thomas Danielsen, the climate rapporteur from the Left, made an interesting and in many ways hopeful announcement about the • and now I correctly quote • that Denmark has the greenest government in recent times, which has taken some of the greatest green progress. It's a direct quote from Thomas Danielsen. Well, it does of course make me wonder, because what kind of environmental measures are these? The government has taken? An agricultural package has been put in place which is both environmental and climate-related; a large number of climate targets have been abolished for both 2020, 2030 and 2035; support for electric cars has been removed; the PSO tax has been abolished. A large number of decisions have therefore been taken, which means that, following the quote from the rapporteur of the Left on climate and energy that we have the greenest government in recent times, which has made some of the greatest green progress, of course, I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether he really believes that, overall, we have the greenest government ever. And if the Prime Minister thinks so, on what do you base that assumption?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314135945	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314135947	The answer to the first question is yes. The answer to the second question is: yes, among other things. on the fact that this government has set up a very, very concrete and very, very ambitious target for 2030 that by 2030, half of the Danish energy consumption will come from renewable energy sources - that is, from renewable energy sources - half! It must, of course, be kept up against the fact that the EU has a common target of 27 per cent. We have set a binding objective for Denmark, which is in the vicinity of twice as large as that of the European Union, and we are also dedicated to achieving it. This is also why, in the autumn, on the one hand, the PSO, which was a millstone around the Danish business community, and which was also questioned by the European Commission, and, on the other hand, the green conversion, among other things. With Kriegers Flak, I am well aware of the world's largest offshore wind farm, and by the way with an underlying technology and a market pressure that has made us also down to prices that are manageable. And we want to continue along that path. We have an Energy Commission which will soon be making a terrible effort to make the overall priorities here, so that the money goes the longest and we may also be able to use market mechanisms to promote the green transition. And then, in the wake of that, there will be new negotiations on what will happen on top of the energy agreement that we have, that is, when it expires. Because we are fully aware that this conversion has not been done with what we have already decided, but that more will have to be done afterwards if we are to achieve the 50%. And to reach 50 percent. By 2030, the most ambitious objective anyone has ever had is a binding one.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314140133	Here you go, sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314140135	Yeah, if only it were. I mean, as a starting point, I think that the Prime Minister's ambitions are really meant, but reality just speaks, at least for me, a different language. Last night, there was a projection from the Danish Energy Agency which said that if we do not do more than what we are doing today, greenhouse gas emissions will increase by 2030. In other words, where we have been a front-runner nation, we are beginning to be a nation lagging behind. And one of the places where you might be able to do something you could do something in many places, but where you could actually do something is in relation to the electric car market. I am here with the text of the COP21 agreement, on which the government has signed, by 2030 at least 20% will be signed. of all cars on the roads here in Denmark and around the world be electric cars. And if you take the projections that the government itself is sending out, there will be about 135,000 electric cars on the Danish roads by 2030, but if you have to live up to the agreement you signed yourself, we should have 480,000 electric cars. So we actually lack 345,000 electric cars if you had to live up to the agreement you signed yourself. So I would like to ask whether the government has any thought about how we get the Danes to buy some more electric cars?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314140301	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314140303	May I first say in relation to yesterday's report that I took note of how it was taken down. There's nothing surprising about that. The report is that if you do not do more, if you sit down on your hands, what does the world look like by 2030? And funny enough, if you sit down on your hands, nothing happens. No, I can figure that out. But that is not our ambition either. After all, our ambition is not to stop happening. After all, our ambition is not that when we have built Krieger's Flak, this is the last time we hear about a single plant crown that has something to do with green energy. Our ambition is, of course, that at some point, when it fits in, when we have to be able to achieve it before it has to be examined, we must have some negotiations on a new energy agreement. After all, it is an energy agreement that must have a content that means that the objective we have is that we have to achieve 50%. By 2030, will be reached. And it is almost twice as tall as the one you have in the European Union, and that is what we must be judged on.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314140407	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314140409	But now the Prime Minister did not actually answer the question I asked, namely what will be done to get more Danes to buy electric cars. It's going the wrong way, isn't it? There has not been one electric car sold in January if the figures I have are correct. So I would like to thank you for your answer, but that was just not the answer I had hoped for at least. Besides that, it's nice to hear that the government has ambitions, and I respect that. I respect the ambition of the government, but what we are calling for is concrete action. And the reason why I am asking these questions is that there are a large number of agreements that expire. The first to expire is in 2018 in relation to aid for wind turbines. So that is the reason why I am asking these questions. The last question I would like to ask, and I shall see if I can get it written, goes to Turkey. For the members of the alternative are also concerned about what is going on in Turkey, not so much in relation to dual citizenship, but more about the repression that is taking place in Turkey. The only person who has freedom of speech is Erdogan. Now we can read in the newspapers that he intends to run election meetings around Europe, and the members of the Alternative would like to hear what the Prime Minister thinks about the demands or wishes of Erdogan that he be able to hold electoral meetings around Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314140534	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314140536	Thank you. Well, I think I have actually indicated this in the action I took this weekend by suggesting to my Turkish colleague that we pushed his work visit, which is, of course, in the word work visit, not just a meeting with me, but a series of activities associated with a meeting with me. And it was pushed. So I think it's documented in my action. So may I not just say quite briefly about what happened with electricity, that once we have set this RE objective, it's because it's the one that's relevant to steer after CO2 because it was also mentioned with CO2 and you just need to know that one goal can upset the other. Well, we were all very pleased recently that Facebook came to Odense. If you look at it in isolation, it increases the Danish CO2 The reason Facebook comes to Odense is that we have so high energy efficiency and we have so green an energy, but now they come and use very much of it. And that's why CO2 But the alternative would be for Facebook to be put somewhere else in Europe, where CO2 And that's why we're heading for what's relevant, namely a 50% RES target, which is the most ambitious I know of.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314140659	Thank you. The question is closed. Then it's mr. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314140706	First of all, I cannot help but follow up the debate. I understand that there is at least one of the progress that was made in the area of foreign policy under the former government, which the Prime Minister is still pleased about, and that is, of course, the issue of dual citizenship. It warms my heart, then, that it was not all one misery, but that there is some of it, as it continues to be both the position and the position is a good idea, also seen from the Left. So let's finally hold on to it. Then it also warms my heart to stay in the positive spirit that it was so clear from this 100-day marking last week that the mood in the government is good; you feel good about each other. I think that is important, and I would like to see them enjoying themselves together and having a good time during at least the three parties. But then I was inspired when I came to Christiansborg by bicycle the other day because the Navy has such an ad campaign, they are currently running, which is called: Become a leader in reality. And then I wondered if the fact that there is such a good atmosphere in the government might lead to some of the great challenges being faced here in the Folketing too. I do, of course, share on some stretches the government's analysis of what they are, but I do not really think that I found it to a large extent in what the Prime Minister outlined as the great things that should be on the Parliament's agenda here in the coming months. That is why I would perhaps just like to say a little openly here that with the assessment that it is now about the Prime Minister who believes that our civilisation is under threat, I must understand that we must be winners in globalisation and well-known then, then perhaps we should also start to embark on some of the slightly bigger things, that is, what makes us able to invest in the future. Instead of all high schools cutting down and introducing educational ceilings, we invest in children's upbringing and education. This requires room for manoeuvre, including room for manoeuvre which has not been used to reduce housing taxes or what else is being proposed to use room for manoeuvre. Therefore, my question is actually just to the Prime Minister: what are the three most important ambitious political agreements we have to reach before the Constitution Day, which points towards what the government itself says is the most important priority, namely to prepare Denmark for the future? What are the three most important agreements that we need to roll up our sleeves to reach, Prime Minister, so that we know what awaits us, now that the mood is fantastic in the government and you have had 100 days for the internal squats?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314140931	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314140932	Well, why do we only have to make three appointments? Well, I can just spot a lot of things we're gonna have to work on in this spring. We need to have a housing tax agreement that is important, yes, because it must create the fundamental security for our homeowners, so that they too dare financially dispose of, and so that we also know what challenges it is for us to have room for manoeuvre. It's one thing we have to do. Then we have to follow up on the committee of experts who came here quite recently and who, after seven years of leaving primary school, has a fifth of those who have neither a Baccalaureate nor a Baccalaureate. If we are to seize the opportunities of the future and move forward into the future, then it is at least one thing that needs to be done significantly, that is significantly better. Then we must start with the social partners in a trialogue and it may well be that at some point it will also land at Christiansborg, but hopefully it will land somewhere else first with the social partners to look at all our VEU efforts and ensure that you can maintain and expand the skills you have in the labour market so that you can stay there for life in a changing time. Then, in collaboration with talented entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs in the entrepreneurship panel, which will be set up shortly, we must take down the best possible proposals that promote entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship in particular. It will be a theme in the context of the Finance Act in the autumn to create the framework conditions that make small people grow large and that they dare to get started at all. Then, at some point, when we have a 2025 plan, and we have that when we have a housing tax agreement, because then we know what that perspective is in 2025, when it lands in the way that it now has to land on the ground, after all back to the discussion I also put up for this autumn, which is about how we get some more seniors to stay a little longer on the labour market, so that we achieve a better balance in our society and free up some economy and create some room for manoeuvre. This is a matter which I would also like to conclude before we go on a summer holiday. It will probably be more than three things, and I could also mention some more, but now the red lamp lights up.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314141146	Yes, and everyone, including the Prime Minister, must keep to his speaking time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314141151	Thank you. I do not think that what characterises the points outlined by the Prime Minister is that it is to a very large extent something that must be done with the parties of the Folketing. Yes, the housing tax agreement has been under discussion for some time now, and I hope we can land it too, but I would also like to stress that if it is once again in a way in which the government puts forward an unfunded proposal and points to the room for manoeuvre as the only way to do so, then you are undermining some of the other objectives, unless you think that it is with low housing tax that we will be winners in globalisation. The Prime Minister himself, in his introduction, mentioned the issue of the relocation of state jobs. But it is the case that the massive savings in upper secondary education in particular, but also in higher education, mean that those parts of Denmark that were considered will end up net with fewer government employees because so many have been made redundant in our secondary schools, in our hf programmes, in vocational training and in higher education. That is why the question is whether it does not start much earlier if we are to meet the challenge of 70,000 young people than when they become the subject of Youth's Education Guide and such things; then it probably requires that we have something better to do from childhood. We would very much like to give priority to increased efforts in our day institutions, and we know that it costs money. That is why it will be a little backwards if the Prime Minister wants to do all the exercises that cost money, whether it is the housing tax that has to be solved, or it is the young people at risk, because then we will push the things that could make it possible to avoid the many boring savings that are now being rolled out.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314141325	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314141327	Thank you. I could have added in my review here that some of what we also need to have discussed on the basis of a government proposal is, of course, a strengthened quality in our day offer. We have made a Finance Act in which we have created the economy to strengthen the quality of our day offer. The government will come up with a concrete proposal during the spring. We would like to have this discussed before we take a summer holiday so that it can be implemented afterwards. The government comes here this spring with a concrete proposal on how to bring 1⁄2 billion. kr. in games, targeted the schools that have the most professionally weakly founded children, whether they now like having them or not just having taken care to move them. This is the case with those schools which do the worst professionally. I do not recognise the view that it should not be possible with the economy we have at our disposal and as we are compared with other OECD countries, for example. to run a primary school which is able to teach children as they are the most, to read and write and count at a level that allows you to receive vocational training. I simply do not accept that. That is why we have come up with a very concrete proposal in which the 100 schools that are most under pressure are given an incentive to try out new methods to make things better for the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314141442	Here you go, sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314141446	I can only note that when you look at the government's economic priorities over time, you see that it is never the themes we are discussing here in Question Time after Question Time that win. When you put forward a proposal on how to deal with housing taxation, it is financed by the room to a large extent, so I assume that both day care institutions and exposed schools will have to look, overall, very envious of the government's ability to prioritise. I have to say, I've visited quite a few of these schools that the Prime Minister is talking about. It is not an economic incentive that they lack. In many places resources could easily be used, but I think we need to have a more basic approach. In any case, it should not be misunderstood that what is missing is an economic carrot, for those who are in the schools at risk are toiling and dragging to make a difference for these young people, and they create small and great miracles every day. However, what may be needed is more fundamental to deal with it even today's institutions with a completely different will to prioritise than has been proposed in the Finance Act. What is being done in schools together is to provide the basis for not a few schools to solve the problem, but for all schools to contribute.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314141556	Thank you. The Prime Minister for his final remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314141558	I am very sorry if the radical priorities do not get enough into our political work. It may be that the mood is so good in the government, because as such we are not governed for that reason. It may also be that this is why it stands in such contrast to the fact that the mood was so bad in the previous government that it had to take these things down. I welcome the fact that there is a good atmosphere, because that is evidence that we are going to move in the same direction. Now, suddenly, it is not a question of money that is not being delivered well enough in primary school. Okay! Well, then there's just one more excuse to go away. I can only see that, despite all good will across all parties, across changing governments, today we have a situation in which 20%, 7 years after leaving primary school, do not have an upper secondary education, for example. in the form of a bill of lading or a baccalaureate, and that is not good enough and it needs to be done better. We have made a new school reform, we have to be vigilant about it, and we believe very much that not the money itself, but the focus it can create to use new didactic tools, new ways of organizing itself, because there is a pool of free funds, will be able to move something and not just move something at 100 schools, but also move something on more than that, because it will inspire. But it's gotta be a test.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314141717	Thank you. The question is closed. Then it is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314141726	Thank you. Isn't it almost over?). No, it's not over. You have to live with me. 14 days ago I was so lucky that I was internship in Wing Island here at Amager, in the morning in the crèche and in the afternoon in kindergarten. I have to say that when I came home at night, I don't think I've ever been so tired, no matter what I've done in here at Christiansborg. What was thought-provoking, and what I was left with besides experiencing both the committed employees, parents and children, was that they spend an immense amount of time on documentation, on control requirements, on a lot of bureaucracy, which one can well believe is not necessarily helping to improve the daily lives of children. That is why, this week, the SF has come up with a proposal that it is time we did things differently in the public sector. Our problem is, of course, that our system is largely based on the fact that everything has to be documented and that everything has to be checked. I believe, in fact, that I agree with many people in this House that we should show much greater confidence in the thousands of public servants who work hard every day to do their job and at the same time to prove that they are actually doing their job. SF has therefore suggested that we close the Modernisation Authority, drop new public management, which has been done in a lot of modern companies, with which we surround ourselves, where they have long since shelved that form of governance, and then instead of shrugging up the system and setting up new and more simple points for the public sector, and therefore creating a new board to work for debureaucratisation and good work. The first task of the administration must be to abolish one in ten rules in the public sector, just as we have done jointly in the business sector. If there is no good reason for a rule or documentation requirement, it smokes. I think it must be quite natural that a liberal prime minister in Denmark's most liberal government ever, I think you call yourselves, supports removing unnecessary documentation requirements and other paperwork, and instead gives public employees the freedom to focus on citizens. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister: SF proposes that we close the Modernisation Board and replace it with a new board to work for debureaucratisation and good work. What does the Prime Minister think of that idea?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314141940	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314141942	Thank you very much for that question and, above all, thank you for the high expectations of my government. Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr himself has just been sitting in a government, that is, a socialist government, or whatever it was that did nothing, and then I understand that on top of that disappointment one has to turn around and look at us hopefully. I am happy to take it down, but not the proposal to close the Modernisation Authority. I'm gonna rub it out as part of the department of the pop-smart, because things don't get any different from the fact that we call them something else. When you look at what the Modernization Agency is doing, they must be judged on the solution of their tasks and not on their name. I believe, among other things, that they pay wages to people sitting here. Don't they? And I guess they're gonna keep doing that. However, the idea behind it, namely to work with regulatory simplification in the public sector, I can guarantee that we will come back to it and it will happen very soon. For that is why I have appointed an additional minister in the Ministry of Finance, namely the Minister for Innovation. It is to put her at the forefront of a reform programme that goes all the way into the public sector in all its aspects. It acts among other things. on the simplification of rules, it is about moving from procedural requirements to objectives, it is about releasing employees, and Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr is going to hear much more about this, and it won't take long.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314142103	Thank you. Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314142104	I am glad that the Prime Minister, who otherwise started to be such a little angry and angry and perhaps did not really want the last question, became a little more smiling at the end. I think that suits the Prime Minister. The reason we're proposing a new board is because we're gonna shake things up. I note that the Prime Minister has also made other and new ministries on the basis of exactly the same assumption, I think, namely that if you break up and change, there is also a chance that you think differently. There are some of the tasks that lie in the Digitisation Board with debureaucratisation, which it would be obvious to put in a new board, of course, along with some of the staff management tasks that still need to be carried out and which are now in the Modernisation Board. You add them up and say that okay, can we think in a new way? Can we debureaucratize and can we put some new pointers on how to lead the public sector? I think that the Prime Minister should be inspired by some of the work that is going on in Sweden right now, when some pointers have been placed which are precisely about good work, fewer sick days, less control and bureaucracy. After all, this is really about removing the unnecessary rules. So when the PM doesn't want to close the board, because he apparently has a special preference for the Modernization Authority I don't know if you can call it the Modernisation Board, maybe it's a little too old for that. Could the Prime Minister imagine doing away with every tenth rule, just as we have done in private business?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314142224	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314142225	It's not that I have any special preference for some regimes rather than some others, it's just that I think it should be about what makes the right difference. And I very much believe that it will make a difference that, for the first time, the government I am now in charge of has set aside a minister in the Ministry of Finance to study these aspects of the public sector with which it can often deal, not out of bad will, but because political agreements, economic agreements have to be concluded, and it is rare for us to get there. Last Sunday, Politiken had an excellent and readable article on the whole course that was left in 2007 about the cancer action plan, where you can see what this is all about, namely that there is therefore a very long distance from a Parliament which, in the best of opinion, adopts some things, puts some money off, and then until they appear in the real reality. And the search for how we move well-intentioned ambitions into the real reality in a combination of having clear goals, having the right resources, having the right professional skills, having the right degrees of freedom, having the right leadership, is an under-priority area. It's an under-priority area. And I would like to give a commitment that we would like to give priority to that. That is the reason for the new minister, and that is why we will shortly be publishing a four-track reform programme which will also address some of the points that Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr is making here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314142356	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314142358	Thank you, President. I think it is interesting and new information that the Prime Minister says that soon the government will be publishing a four-track reform programme that will try to look at the public sector. That's a good thing. I think that what must be interesting for the development and management of the public sector because, of course, it must continue to be managed; it is not the case that we are saying that there must be no governance of the public sector; there must be professionalism at the centre and that the citizen experiences the quality improvement in daily life. In the end, it is also a frustration for citizens who experience that the healthcare provider spends more time documenting, or that the educator has to sit and test language, perhaps in an area where there is no need for language testing. It's good that we break up some of those rules. That is why I would like to come back to you, even though the Minister is kind enough to promise a four-track reform programme on this question of whether we can look at this in the same way as we have done with the private business sector, where we said: let us look at the rules. If there is no argument for a rule, we will abolish it. We made a company council, and every ten rules disappeared. We could also do that in the public sector, because the public sector is not just a sausage factory. It is really a very valuable business that is about people, and therefore people should also be at the centre.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314142518	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314142520	Well, I fully agree that the whole question of simplification is also an essential element, and it is also a work that we would like to enter into. Now there are rarely any rules invented without anyone thinking about them. I remember that just recently there was a discussion that was a historic discussion, and it was not with Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr's party colleague, it was Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr's former party colleague. There was such a discussion about a nursing home in Frederiksberg, about workplace assessments, and not many spoke about confidence reform, and when the minister said it was the municipality, they said no, no, it was the minister's responsibility. If you dive into the figures, I think you will see that it was an institution with an extremely low sickness absence, i.e. with an extremely low, bordering to almost zero sickness absence. The way I have just drawn attention to this debate over the last few weeks, it is not really what has filled anything. It has been more the question of whether a template was now used on some workplace assessments or other. But there are many aspects to this. It is just to say that rules are often the case that some have invented them, and when they have to be abolished again, or if they are not fully complied with, they get into trouble. But with this little reservation, we would like to enter into this discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314142628	Thank you. That's the end of Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314142639	Today there are the following reviews: Alex Ahrendtsen (DF) and others.: Bill No. L 148 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Conservation and Conservation of Buildings and Urban Environments. Holger K. Nielsen (SF) and Jacob Mark (SF): Motion for a resolution No. B 81 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on Danish accession to the International Safe Schools Declaration on the obligation to protect pupils, students, teachers, schools and universities at war). There's got to be a little quieter in the room. Thank you. Josephine Fock (ALT) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 82 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the possibility of local currencies). Stine Brix (EL) and Pernille Skipper (EL): Motion for a resolution No. B 83 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the health care services offered to staff assessed). Jacob Mark (SF) and Trine Torp (SF): Motion for a resolution No. B 84 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the possibility of postponing school start-up). Trine Torp (SF), Ida Auken (RV), Maria Reumert Gjerding (EL) and Christian Poll (ALT) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 85 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on effective action against plastic pollution). Lisbeth Bech Poulsen (SF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 86 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on minor discrimination in nightlife). Kirsten Normann Andersen (SF) and Lisbeth Bech Poulsen (SF): Request no. F 47 (What can the Minister of Finance say about the upcoming agreement between KL and the government about the municipalities' finances for 2018 etc.?). Carolina Magdalene Maier (ALT) and Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT): Request no. F 48 (How will the Minister ensure that the process of preparing the new professional guidance for trannesses becomes respectful, dignified, open and inclusive for the tranned themselves, and what initiatives will the Minister take to ensure that future treatment offers are not placed in psychiatry?). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20170314142826	Hans Andersen (V) has applied for leave from 20 March 2017, cf. Paragraph 41 of the Rules of Procedure. 4, while Martin Lidegaard (RV) has applied for leave from 18 April 2017, cf. Paragraph 41 of the Rules of Procedure. 4. If there is no objection, I shall consider it agreed that leave should be granted as applied for and that substitutes should be called as temporary members.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314142912	From the Committee on the Verification of Credentials, I have received the recommendation that the First Deputy of the Left in Nordsjællands Storkreds, Klaus Markussen, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing as from 20 March 2017 on the occasion of Hans Andersen's leave. I have also received the recommendation that the second deputy for the Radical Left in Nordsjællands Storkreds, Kristian Hegaard, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing from 18 April 2017 on the occasion of Martin Lidegaard's leave. It should be noted that the first deputy has announced that she does not wish to take up her leave. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314142958	The committee's recommendation shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 102 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The Committee's position has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314143033	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 50 by Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl (DF), Mette Reissmann (S), Jakob Engel-Schmidt (V), Henrik Dahl (LA), Sofie Carsten Nielsen (RV), Jacob Mark (SF) and Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel (KF), and voting is possible. The vote is over. In favour, 89 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF) voted against 13 (EL and ALT), [no votes for or against 0]. Proposal for adoption No V 50 has been adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 51 of Finn Sørensen (EL) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314143147	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314143201	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 103 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314143228	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314143242	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 82 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), against 21 (DF), abstention 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314143319	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314143331	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 21 (DF), against 81 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314143409	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314143415	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 21 (DF), against 82 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314143454	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314143458	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-19, elected by the committee? They are adopted. Trouble in the Chamber There is too much talk in the Chamber. You have to be able to go out without talking. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314143539	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on Amendment No. 1 and 2 which have been appointed by the Committee. Well, are we going to wear the rapporteur here? Yeah. I just didn't see that you'd pop in or anything. Leif Lahn Jensen I was waving. ) Here you go, then we'll take the vote afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314143626	Thank you for the flexibility of the President. At first reading, there were some issues about funding that we had to drill a little more into in the Social Democracy. That is why we would also wait to make our position on the proposal for a second reading today, and that is why I have gone to the platform. This bill, which we are discussing today, gives an extra carrot to those people who are long-term unemployed and who are furthest away from the labour market if they get to work. This is something that the Social Democratic Party has already proposed and also adopted when we were in government, and we therefore have no reason to vote against this proposal. So one might ask oneself: does a proposal like this apply to the long-term unemployed? We believe that, but it has not been proven, and I therefore of course welcome the fact that there is an evaluation part in the proposal so that we can actually see whether it is a tool that we can use with good effect some other time. However, when it comes to funding, we are actually very concerned that, firstly, the funding is not described in the bill and, secondly, that the government, together with the Danish People's Party, has decided that some 300 million will be saved. kr. on urban renewal in 2018 and 2019. This means that I once again ask myself some questions: what is this going to mean for the cities, for the smaller cities, and will this proposal once again draw Denmark even more skewed? Will it cost jobs in the rest of the country? The answer is given from many places. All municipalities • it says a reply from the minister in the committee procedure • could be affected by the reduction in the urban renewal framework, as there will be less funding for distribution among municipalities in 2018 and 2019 as a result of the funding of the job premium scheme. The answer to question 1 also shows that savings are being made in this area and that there will be less funding for urban renewal. However, letters from KL, the National Association of Municipalities, also show that these pools are being used more and more in the cities and help to make prettyr cities, new cycle paths, tear down old, dilapidated buildings and make a much nicer urban space. In 2016, it was even decided to focus less on the larger cities and more on the smaller cities around the country. That is the pool and the opportunities that are now being cut. This, as I see it, will affect rural development, as urban development creates jobs with, among other things, jobs. to renovate homes. This is something that, in my opinion, will once again drag Denmark more wrong. As always, as we see every day, it is a priority that we have not been involved in because, as I said, we have not been involved in negotiating this. We would like to see another funding. Our proposal to finance this proposal again would be to remove it from what we call the TB reserve, that is, the supplementary allocation reserve. That would be logical because it is a temporary arrangement. So with these words I shall do as at first reading: I would like to commend the proposal. I think this is a good proposal and that is why we are going to vote in favour of the proposal today. But we want to be allowed to raise the flag here so that we do not think the funding is right. That is also why I have explained this at second reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314143944	One person has asked for a brief comment. It's sir. Hans Andersen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314143949	Thank you. I just need to get it right. Social democracy ends up pressing the green button when we are finally going to adopt this bill at third reading, even though, as I understand it, the Social Democracy is opposed to the funding that is the basis of the legislative proposal itself, and therefore cannot support the draft law or how am I supposed to understand it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314144028	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314144029	I think I made it quite clear in the end that we are voting in favour of the proposal. This means that we see the job premium scheme as a really, really good scheme to help some of these people get started. That was among other things. That is why we proposed it ourselves. We made an agreement with Enhedslisten and the others back in 2012. We also proposed this in 2015. It was the Left at that time too, but then there was a parliamentary election that overtaken us, and therefore we did not get it through. That is a very good suggestion. After all, we have not been part of the negotiations on funding, nor has there been any mention of funding in the legislative proposal itself; it is on a number of other documents. I would just like to say here that this is an excellent proposal that we support, but I would also like to say that it is not a financing option that we support. That is why, of course, as always, we had hoped that we would have been part of the negotiations so that we could have done it differently.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314144123	Hans Andersen for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314144126	Thank you. The Social Democratic Party now supports the proposal for a job prize, but the Social Democratic Party rejects the funding and refers to a reserve to finance a proposal. That's if it's up to the Social Democratic Party. Yeah, well, you can leave that for a little while. Social democracy would like to help get unemployed into work, but would not take responsibility for funding and refer to the reserve on state finances. It's a free round. It's a totally free round. I thought Social Democracy was a responsible party that actually took responsibility for making things work together, and all you want to do now is say yes to the job prize, but no to the funding.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314144221	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314144223	Social democracy is also a very responsible party, which is why we had hoped that we would have been called to debate it here. Apparently, we have a government that does not like to negotiate widely in all areas, especially this one. We would have liked that and then we could have had our funding proposal on the table. It is a financing proposal which I know the government has used in the past to finance their financial laws, and I think it is sensible because this is a temporary arrangement, and then you can do so. I cannot quite understand the wonder Hans Andersen has, because we take responsibility. We could also have stood up and said that we were against funding in this way. Here we take responsibility and point to funding.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314144303	No one else has asked for brief comments. Is there anyone else who wishes to speak on this matter? That does not seem to be the case and then the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314144305	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). 1 and 2, to be elected by the Committee? You don't. They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314144341	The debate is open and the first rapporteur is Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democrat.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314144344	54 shootings in 2016 related to the biker and gang environment. This is a sharp increase from the years before. Denmark should not be a country where the streets are being shot. Denmark must be a country where people from criminal groups do not carry firearms in the trunk. The aim of the bill here is to tighten up the penalty for the possession of weapons, and in concrete terms this means that the current minimum sentence will be increased from one year to two years. In addition, an amendment to the authority of the Minister for Justice, after negotiation with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, is proposed to issue a ban under arms legislation against the transport of weapons between certain countries other than Denmark in the case of specific countries of dispatch. There are very few areas where we in the Social Democratic Party are in favour of minimum penalties. Weapon possession is one of them. There's not much to discuss here. Either you own guns or you don't. If you have a weapon in the street, there is a great risk that you will use it, and that is why the penalty must also be harsh and cash. It will be with the proposal here, which is why I have to say that we in the Socialist Group can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314144513	No one has asked for brief comments, and we go further in the rapporteur's line. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Peter Kofod Poulsen from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314144527	Thank you for that, President. We've seen too many gang-related shootings over the past year. In 2016, there were 54 shootings in public spaces that could be related to bikers and to gangs. That is for many, and it puts ordinary people in an unreasonable and totally unacceptable situation where they are put at great risk. We can't have that, and that's why we need to stop it. I am pleased that the Danish People's Party was successful in the financial negotiations with the demand for a doubling of the minimum penalty for illegal possession of weapons from 1 year to 2 years. This must help the gang members to think better about, and if they do not, they can look forward to a longer stay in prison, which I think is quite reasonable. I am glad that we managed to reach an agreement with the government on this, and it goes without saying that when it was our proposal at the time, we will necessarily vote in favour of it when it is now in the Chamber. So I think that's a good suggestion. We are pleased with the agreement we have made and, of course, we support L 139. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314144642	No one has asked for short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Left. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314144704	Thank you for the floor. The shootings which have been witnessed, not least in the streets of Copenhagen, we must do everything we can to stop them, and it is therefore important that we now tighten up the penalties for illegal possession of weapons quite significantly. The prerequisite for shooting at others is, of course, that you have something to shoot with, and that is why it is important that we not only put in when people have shot, but also take action against those who have a weapon that they can shoot with. The gang conflicts we have seen have also hit, what should we say, outsiders. Of course, shooting at each other doesn't work either, but somewhere it's worse when you shoot at outsiders. There are police officers who have been shot and there are prison officers who have been shot, and that is why it is important that we send a very clear signal and that we ensure that people who have a weapon that they are not allowed to have go to prison. I agree with the Trine Bramssen of Social Democracy that minimum penalties are an absolute exception. It is a tool to be very careful about using, because there is no rule without exception, and there can always be cases that fall a little outside the framework and where, as a judge, you therefore need to be able to go under the minimum penalty. That is why I would like to take this opportunity from Parliament's platform and, of course, I also hope that the court will read the preparatory work for the draft law and draw attention to section 83 of the penal code, which states that the penalty can be reduced, that is to say, that one can be punished by less than two years. Yes, the penalty can even be totally abolished, that is, that there is no penalty at all when information about the crime, the perpetrator or other matters is conclusive. It is important that the courts use that provision in the criminal code, because it is precisely intended to be able to pick up where a penalty is found unfair. Then I would also like to refer to the preparatory work in which we write, for example, that for people who have an air rifle that has been legal in the past but has now become illegal, there will not be the particularly aggravating circumstances that will have to be present before the minimum penalty is imposed. It will instead be placed under Section 10 of the Arms Act. 1. It may also be a hunter who simply forgot to renew his permit for arms. Nor will such a person fall within the scope of the provision. It could also be a minister driver who has been out riding with the minister's hunting rifle in the trunk. It seems that a case of this has been seen from the world of reality and such a minister driver will probably also fall outside the provision and will therefore not have to be punished with the minimum penalty. It may be that you may have inherited a weapon from a grandfather who has been a freedom fighter or anything else, and have never given it an idea that it was illegal to have it. Such a case would also fall outside. When I use a little gunpowder, if I may say so, I apologise for going a little further into these exceptions, it is precisely to take seriously the hearing answer that has come from the Association of Judges and a little playing the ball back to the judiciary and to say that, of course, there must still be the possibility that, in exceptional cases, which are not what we intended to hit, we will go in and depart from the minimum sentence of these two years. All in all, however, it is a good legislative proposal that we adopt. We are not so naive that we believe that it will put an end to shootings and gang conflicts, but we are sure that it will make it fewer than it would otherwise have been. And the greatest thing we can hope for as parliamentary politicians is that we can change developments. We should not imagine that we can slow down development.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314145109	No one has asked for short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur in the rapporteur's report is Mr Beazley. Rune Lund from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314145130	In Denmark over the past year we have witnessed a large number of shootings where innocent people have also been at risk when there have been shootings by bikers and gangs in public spaces. This, of course, is not something we, as a society, must put up with; it is something we must do something about. It is also the case that we have been sitting together around the negotiating table with the Minister for Justice, where there have been debates and discussions about a biker gang package. There are, in fact, many of the measures that are very good and sensible. There are measures to look at how we can strengthen arms control in relation to the weapons being stored in private homes, which are being looked at at at the shooting clubs and the rules that are about it, and we are looking at how we can strengthen, for example. the cooperation, where SKAT cooperates with police and municipalities to hit bikers and gangs who make social fraud. There are a large number of measures that are sensible and there are also a large number of measures which, from our point of view, are very problematic. One of the proposals which is particularly problematic is this proposal to increase the minimum penalty from one year in prison to two years in prison. There are two basic problems in this. One problem is minimum penalties as such. We have a division of power: we have the legislature, that is where we are right now, we have the executive, it is the government and we have the judiciary, it is the courts. If a parliament, in this case the Folketing, goes in and adopts minimum sentences, we go directly into the jurisdiction of the judiciary. That is democratically problematic in principle, but it is also problematic in relation to the specific cases where, as a judge without a minimum penalty, that is, as we usually punish, we will be able to go in and, for example, we will be able to do so. take into account mitigating circumstances. It is not possible to do so in the same way, even if there is a small exception here, it is a little unclear how it will be used exactly in the case of minimum penalties. That is one thing: minimum penalties are, in principle, problematic. The second point is: where is the evidence that this will have a preventive effect? There are so many suggestions in this Parliament, just since I became the legal rapporteur after the summer holidays in 2016, when it is punishment with punishment where it is just about more punishment, without there being any evidence that it will lead to less crime. We simply lack the basic evidence that there is any country in this world that has been able to punish itself for less crime, that is, higher penalties lead to less crime. And in this way, unfortunately, it is a very absurd legal political discussion that we are having here in the Danish Parliament, because there is at least one area where there are also others in the Danish Parliament where there is really a political discussion that is completely detached from what is the established knowledge in the field, what is the research in the field and what is like with experience of how we punish best. Because it is not an end in itself to have high penalties. We're punishing for preventing people from committing new crimes. This is certainly a fundamental idea in the way we should organise our penal system. So that part of the proposal cannot be supported by Enhedslisten. Then there is the second part of the proposal which concerns the amendment of the existing ban on the transport of weapons, etc. between certain countries other than Denmark. It smells like a tightening up, and we are in favour of this, of course, but it may be that the Minister for Justice can also go into it further when the Minister for Justice takes the stand here in the near future. Otherwise, we will in any case ask some questions about it during the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314145532	There is one person who has asked for a brief comment, and that is Mr Seligman. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314145536	As I also mentioned in my speech, minimum penalties are a tool to be used only in particularly serious cases. We believe that possession of weapons is just as manslaughter is, by the way. I do not know if Enhedslisten is planning to abolish the minimum sentence for manslaughter. The rapporteur can say something about that, of course. Now we hear that there is no evidence that punishment works. There is. The police were interned during World War II. There weren't regular police on the streets in the last few years of the occupation. It was a try one to one, you might say. It wasn't the intention, but it was an attempt one to one. During that period, the scale of all forms of crime increased dramatically, in other words, having a police force, having prisons, having punishments have some significance. I have a specific question for Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur today: if, instead of a fine of DKK 750, you do so. in order to drive without a ticket in public transport... train, bus and that sort of thing got 5 years in prison, does Enhedslisten's rapporteur think that there would be fewer people driving without a ticket, more or the same number?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314145657	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314145700	I think that Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen misses in his comment. After all, it is a question of whether there is evidence of research that can prove that if we increase the penalty in this way, it will lead to less crime. If sir... Jan E. Jørgensen can inform me that there is such a research, Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen is very welcome to e-mail me or otherwise explain to me that this should be the case. I just miss that documentation. We are not afraid to discuss higher sentences in the Enhedslisten. We just have the basic point of departure: if we are to lift a penalty, it is because it has to make sense. And so it is in particular because we must be able to show that it will have a preventive effect. We know that it has in some areas. If we talk, for example... We know that the level of punishment and, in particular, the risk of discovery have an effect. But I just miss that documentation exactly in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314145809	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314145812	The Enhedslisten believes that it is not carefully planned and well organized when purchasing a firearm. That's the kind of thing you get to: I come walking and hooving, there's a gun; well, it's for sale, so I think I'll just buy it. Oh, come on. We're talking about gang criminals, we're talking about organized crime. Of course, it is carefully planned and well organized when they acquire a gun. The same applies to financial crime. But I did ask a question that I did not get an answer to. We can only reduce the penalty. If we reduced the sentence for manslaughter to 30 days, do we think that more people would be killed or would it have no meaning?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314145856	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314145857	After all, it is a question of what is the right level of punishment. I think that we need to keep to the documentation and where is the documentation from Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen for that, when we raise the sentences in this area, will lead to less crime? I can't see it anywhere. Maybe sir can. Jan E. Jørgensen that, but I have not heard it, nor in this Chamber today. If sir... Jan E. Jørgensen has this kind of documentation, I'd be happy to receive it. We know that in an area such as financial crime, this is important. I don't see any evidence that it has an impact on this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314145926	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Preben Bang Henriksen, also Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314145929	Thank you. I would just like to ask the rapporteur: is it the case that the Enhedslisten believes that there should be evidence of any kind of punishment? We have known 306 provisions of the penal code. Is there evidence that the penalty works in each of the paragraphs according to Enhedslisten's opinion?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314145948	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314145950	Of course there isn't, but I also believe that Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen must acknowledge, and perhaps even agree with me, that at the moment in this Parliament we have a debate on legal policy in which it is a question of certain parties wanting to outdo each other in saying harsher penalties, harsher penalties, without there being any documented effect on the fact that it will lead to less crime. I really think that should be a reasonable point of view, and it has also been in the judicial policy debates in this Parliament in the past, that more attention should be paid to what the effects are of the things you do or what the research says or what experience says about the actions you want to take. But it has become more and more irrelevant, because now it is just about saying longer sentences, and then never mind if it takes us where we want to go. The opposite can happen, of course. If we just say longer sentences and let people sit longer in prisons and, by the way, like the Minister of Justice, want it to be really hard, and we have to treat people almost like animals in prisons, then animals will also come out on the other side. And then we know that we don't get less crime, then we get more crime. I would just like to see the objectivity of the legal policy debate in here, which is actually seen elsewhere, also outside this Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314150111	When the President gets up, it is because the speaking time is exhausted. Now it's sir. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314150115	Yes, the rapporteur is right about objectivity and evidence and proof. Now I think back a few years, and then we increased the penalty for competition offences from 2 to 6 years with the votes of Enhedslisten. I certainly do not recall that Enhedslisten asked for any particular evidence that it worked. By the way, I noticed that the Enhedslisten voted for it, and I am a little surprised because I understand that there must be evidence of everything between heaven and earth. It's not like we can have a feeling in here that it's gonna work.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314150151	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314150153	You can do that, but I think it's also Mr. Knox. Preben Bang Henriksen knows that when it comes to punishments, we are, as a starting point, very focused on whether it will have the desired effect. It's not that it always has to be like that. There are also cases in which, on the basis of our assessment of the sense of justice and the sense of justice, we are also a complex matter, because my sense of justice will be, for example, one of the things I have to say. Increased by the fact that we are punishing in a way that creates as little crime as possible... has helped to support, for example, that... The penalties for rape have been tightened up. We stand by that, too. So it's not like we want evidence on every case. That is what we have not demanded, but I also believe that the questioner will agree with me that this is something that we attach great importance to in the debate on legal policy, and I should not hide the fact that I think it is something that should be given more weight when we discuss these matters.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314150246	No one else has asked for short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Christina Egelund from the Liberal Alliance. No, it's sir. Villum Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314150256	Thank you. In the absence of our usual rapporteur, I should like to say the following: when the streets are shot, it is not only hard-boiled criminals who are at risk of being hit. It is something that affects ordinary citizens who cannot walk around safely on the streets. An effective way to put an end to these shootings will be to get rid of the weapons that the gangs and rockers get their hands on. One tool in this endeavour would be to discourage not only bikers and gang members, but also all the intermediaries who acquire these illegal weapons. By significantly increasing the penalties, not only is this achieved, but it also takes into account the sense of justice of the citizens, as we have just mentioned in the debate, when we see that this type of crime is being severely reduced, which, of course, has an enormous insecurity-building effect. Against this background, the Liberal Alliance supports the proposal and I have promised to announce that the Conservatives also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314150410	No one has asked for short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Rasmus Nordqvist from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314150419	Thank you. We've been exporting our usual legal rapporteur to the UN these days, so that's why you have the pleasure of me. In fact, I would like to start by commending and giving recognition to the Minister of Justice for this ongoing focus on creating security and ensuring security on the streets and streets throughout the country. That is, of course, an ambition that we share in the alternative. In the same breath, however, I must also strongly warn against false security and automatic reactions, which this proposal is very much marked by, and which are, of course, part of a longer process in which we have more and more focus on only longer and harder penalties. In Denmark, unfortunately, we have a lot of gangs, and this means that tough handling of individuals does not actually eliminate the problem of organised crime alone, and certainly not for long-term purposes, when the prisoners are released after having been held in the role of criminal for many years behind bars. Youth crime is falling, and it is actually pleasing. We believe that we must make use of this momentum and make even greater efforts to prevent and re-socialise, so that crime at all levels is dealt with on the basis of the principle of what works in the long term. One goes against a united research stand when one insists that it is mainly harder and longer penalties, which is the solution to the terrorisation of cities and neighbourhoods by rockers and gangs, and one owes it to give answers to what to do with those people after atonement. Do we have anything more to offer them than a return to their former way of life, and what if we actually increased our focus on prevention and rehabilitation, so that young vulnerable people faced bikers and gangs' advances both before a possible criminal career and after a potential punishment? The Ministry of Justice's research office has established in a report that actions such as: training and treatment have a positive impact on the risk of relapse, in short, more prevention, more rehabilitation is the way forward. We need to turn the levers that we know work. Punishment can have a preventive effect, and in cases where it can be demonstrated that it works, we are open to revising punitive measures. However, we are a little curious whether the Minister can present us with any evidence that harsher sentences for possession of weapons have the preventive effect, so people just think twice before they start carrying illegal weapons. Harder punishments satisfy a sense of justice, but in the alternative we want to act on the basis of legal reasoning that actually provides a safer society in the long term. If this proposal can contribute to fewer weapons, we are open to saying yes to it, but we need to see some evidence from the Minister. We want the problems of illegal possession of weapons to be dealt with in the smartest and best way that not only removes people from the street, but actually gets weapons and motivation to carry and shoot illegal weapons off the street, also in the long term.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314150728	No one has asked for short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line. The next is Mrs Zenia Stampe from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314150748	Thank you. It's a sad déjà vu to stand here. Although I was not the legal rapporteur myself in 2013, that was when we had government power, and there was also a gang war. 49 shootings in six months. At that time, we also proposed a gang package and stricter penalties for illegal possession of weapons. Before that, there was also a gang war which, in the first place, paved the way for the introduction of the minimum penalty, and that is why, unfortunately, we have to note that it is not something that happens regularly because that is what we are fighting against together, so that it is something that will happen again, but that it is something that, when we look back, has happened at a few years apart. When I say that, it is not because I think that we should normalize it and just live with it and say that it is, but then it is also in order to relate it to the gang packages that have been adopted in the meantime and the penalties that have been imposed. After all, there are a number of gang members who thought it was worth having weapons illegally, even though there was a minimum penalty of one year. That is why the question is whether they will be more impressed by the fact that we are raising the minimum penalty to two years or whether the importance of the penalty is overestimated. That is not the same as saying that punishment does not have any meaning, but one has to ask oneself, because if one knows that it gives at least one year to store weapons illegally, yet chooses to do so, does one think that raising the penalty to two years is what makes the difference? I don't think so. That's why we're not even convinced that this is what it takes to stop these gang wars once and for all, which we've now seen occurring every couple of years over the last 10 years. That is why, of course, we are also pleased with the negotiations that have taken place and some of the measures that are based on prevention and rehabilitation. We believe more that this is the way to go if the aim is to create fewer victims. Our attitude has nothing to do with pity for the criminals, but it is about what works. I would like to say that I very much agree with Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Rune Lund, when he says that what we have seen from the government over the past year has been punishment and punishment. And it is not, of course, because we have something in principle against all punishments. I'm just afraid you spend all your energy walking in the wrong direction. We are against this proposal. It is not because we are opposed to a debate on raising the penalty for illegal possession of weapons. But, first of all, we are not convinced that it will have the necessary effect and, secondly, we are against minimum penalties. We have joined before because we have been in government and have made compromises; that is the reality. I might as well say that honestly from up here. But we are not enthusiastic about minimum penalties. Nor was the former Minister of Justice of the Left. Sir. Søren Pind gave an interview to Everything in which he said that it was certainly not with him as Minister of Justice that minimum penalties would be introduced. It has to be just a cadeau to the new Conservative Minister of Justice that it actually makes a difference whether it is a liberal Minister of Justice or a Conservative Minister of Justice. Praise to the Minister for Justice, even if I saw in this case that it was a liberal Minister of Justice who can see the problem by the legislators going in and interfering in the actual punishment. Because that is why we are against minimum penalties. These are arguments with which we are not alone and which we have the defence lawyers, the national courts and the judge's association's word for is interference in the field of judicial power. It is not because it is contrary to the constitution, but it is contrary to the idea, the idea, the principle of separation of powers. And quite specifically, and this is an example from Søren Pind, there may also be cases, although right now, of course, we have those gang members in mind. There is no dear mother there. I don't think there are any of us who want to be dear mother to them and give them any kind of discount. That was also why the law of knife was amended at the time, because this type of minimum case arose, and it may well be that it arises after it is passed here, and then it may be that it is changed again. But we are at least opposed for reasons of principle, because we think it is a mix-up of the three powers, but also because in other cases, where there are minimum penalties, we have seen that it causes problems in specific cases, where virtually everyone can see that this is going to be quite wrong. That is why I would like to conclude by saying that we are not really going to reject punishments. We don't really believe them, but maybe we could be persuaded. But we are not prepared to accept minimum penalties.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314151314	I would remind you that ministers, in this case the Minister for Education and Research, are addressed by title and not by name. One person has asked for a brief comment. It's sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314151325	That is not what I wanted to talk about, but rather the question of introducing minimum penalties in this area. It's not. Well, the minimum penalty of one year was already there. I therefore agree with the Radical Left rapporteur, Mrs Zenia Stampe, that the minimum penalty is something to be used with caution. So far, so good. But there are all these cases where a relationship is not considered particularly aggravating. It is only in the particularly aggravating situations that the minimum penalty applies. Can that make Mrs Zenia Stampe look with a milder eye at the bill we are discussing here today?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314151412	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314151413	No, because we cannot understand why one does not trust the judge to assess whether there is an aggravating circumstance. Why is it that, before we have seen the specific case, we in the Danish Parliament are going to pass judgment instead of having confidence that we can find a way of making legislation without minimum penalties, but with comments where we give the judges, as it were, a reading guide on how the legislators intended this law to be respected? I trust that. I think it's a little sloppy. In this debate we have, it's about trust in the judges or the judiciary. In the next debate we are going to have, it is of course confidence in the police, because the Danish People's Party then believes that you must suddenly build a platform in order to avoid the police. I think it's a slippery slope. Surely we must have confidence in the authorities that we have given power in Denmark. It cannot be that it is we in the Folketing who have no knowledge of the specific case, with the many nuances that may have to pass judgment. I believe that the courts are able to do so, but of course, according to expert advice from us, and we have every opportunity to make comments, as the Court of Justice also suggests that we can do.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314151525	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314151527	Then we may not be so divided, for it is because if there are not particularly aggravating circumstances, it is not this paragraph at all. Then we're over in Section 10 of the Arms Act. So it is up to the judge to assess whether there are particularly aggravating circumstances. And if there are not particularly aggravating circumstances, there is no minimum penalty.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314151554	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314151556	Then there does not have to be a minimum penalty if it is the judge himself who assesses it. But it isn't. We have the Court of Justice, the defense attorneys, the national courts, who are all warning against this and say that it is contrary to the principle of the actual prosecution and that it must be carried out by the judge. Well, then it's not just something I'm making up.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314151620	No one else has asked for short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314151636	After all, there are no parties in here who think that this is a fantastic development that we have seen in recent times where there has been a shooting in the streets. It's just to get it straight. Apparently, we all have to give such an assurance that we also think it is something terrible. I think we all do that, from right to left, there is no political difference between that. We all want to do something about it, too, and the government and the Minister of Justice have then made this proposal, which is part of the gang package so poetically called "Bander behind bars." I am quite sure that the Minister for Justice has a sincere desire to ensure more security on the streets, in the homes, out there among the citizens. However, where I think the public may be slightly blinded is when they say: in a large number of areas we want to tighten up the penalties and therefore there will be more security. As some of my colleagues have also mentioned, this is the third gang package we are debating at this time. And it doesn't look like there's any connection between the punishments that come and the security that's experienced and the, what to say, objective facts there are. So if you do not also have any other measures, I think it is a little popped and symbolic policy to have it as the only thing that you want to increase the penalty. From the SF's point of view, we have proposed to the Minister for Justice that there should be a genuine arms strategy, that is, a strategy for how we deal with the situation with the increasing number of weapons that are in Denmark. How do they get to Denmark? How are they sold etc.? That seems to us to be missing. We should also look a little more closely at what developments we have seen, because if we were to be able to tackle this development alone with increased penalties, we would only see a long reduction in the number of weapons in Denmark and in the number of shootings. After all, my colleagues from the Left have asked whether we can be critical of the use of minimum penalties if we already have, but then it can be said that every time we increase the minimum penalty from one year, two years, three years, four years, then the room for manoeuvre that the judges must have in order to be able to deliver an individual penalty is reduced even more. From the SF we are not against punishment, but our legal policy goes on two legs or three, you might say. First of all, of course, there is both the penalty element, which must ensure that the victims also have a sense of justice, because they have the right to do so, but it also has the practical consequence of avoiding vigilante action. We shall also be discussing this in connection with the next proposal. So that's good enough. The second is that we must, of course, ensure that when people are your room for manoeuvre, I think we are restricting these years. That's a little too bad. The third is, of course, prevention. So when the Minister for Justice comes up on the platform, I would like to ask some questions about how we can ensure that we prevent it from escalating. For, of course, there is a connection between whether people commit crime and whether there is a penalty or not, but we see no empirical link between higher minimum sentences and less crime, fewer shootings. It is going in waves and right now we have seen a wave that is completely unacceptable. I do not wish to say in advance that we cannot support this proposal, but I think it is problematic that it stands alone and that there is almost some sort of promise to citizens that if we increase the minimum penalty by one year, we will have created more security, because then there will be fewer shootings and crime. And then you also make an impression when there are so many different organisations... the Court of Justice, the National Association of Defense Attorneys and others who say in their hearing answer: you are out on a slippery slope when you raise the minimum penalty time and time again. The Criminal Code Council has also pointed out in their report that it is not a tool they think is good. My time has elapsed and I do not reject it in advance, but I do not think it can stand alone and also need the process in committee to get answers to some questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314152157	No one has asked for short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur. Since we're done with the series of rapporteurs, we're going to the Justice Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314152210	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking you for the most positive speeches we have heard. I think I can hear that there is a clear majority in favour of the proposal. The past year has, of course, been marked by very violent conflicts in the biker gang environment. More than a triple of the number of biker-gang-related shootings in the public space from 2015 to 2016 has repeatedly put the lives and health of law-abiding citizens at risk. We should not accept that bikers and gangs of brutal and ruthless crime create insecurity in the streets. The Danes must be able to walk the streets without fear of being caught in the shootings of rockers and gangs. That's why getting guns off our streets has been a top priority from the beginning of my time as Minister of Justice. We must ensure that there is a hard and noticeable consequence in the illegal possession of firearms. Specifically, with this bill, the government is proposing to double the minimum sentence from 1 to 2 years in prison for the illegal possession of firearms and explosives under particularly aggravating circumstances. In this context, it is assumed that the level of punishment for such offences will be increased by about one year in prison in relation to the punishment previously imposed by the courts. This means, for example, that the penalty for the possession of a gun with ammunition in the public domain, which is currently being punished by imprisonment for one year and six months, will henceforth be punishable by imprisonment for two years and six months. We are therefore calling for a substantial increase in these matters, so that the people who are taken with a gun receive a longer unconditional sentence of liberty. In addition, it is proposed that the penalty should be increased from 6 years in prison to 8 years in prison in order to ensure that there will continue to be a significant margin for the penalty for particularly serious violations of the provision. It is also important for me to make it clear that the bill alone will change the sentence. The proposal does not change the scope of the provision. Therefore, it does not change which cases are covered by the minimum penalty. This means that the possession of an illegal firearm must continue and the possession must be in particularly aggravating circumstances. As far as the first condition of illegal possession is concerned, I firmly believe that all Danes are aware that possession of a firearm requires authorisation. There will normally be no doubt about that. The second condition, as I have said, is that illegal possession takes place under particularly aggravating circumstances. This is a concrete assessment of the circumstances of the case, focusing on the danger of the weapon. If the possession does not take place under particularly aggravating circumstances, it could be a violation of the arms law. That will be the case, for example. Furthermore, hunters or collectors of arms without criminal background, who have simply forgotten to renew the permit or the hunting sign within the relevant time limits. Such an infringement would not constitute illegal possession in particularly aggravating circumstances. The infringement will therefore not be covered by section 192 A of the Criminal Code, which is the provision we are talking about here. The same would apply if a person without a criminal background is allowed to hold a firearm, for example: a shotgun, but holds it in a publicly available place under excusable circumstances contrary to the permit. The same applies to persons without a criminal background who inherit a firearm and have had, for a number of years in violation of arms law, the weapon lying in the home or in their summer house, perhaps even forgotten. In other words, the current provision already contains a sensible definition which means that the ordinary citizen is not suddenly and inadvertently penalised by excessively severe penalties. The draft law therefore does not propose to change the scope of the provision. So that's the penalty we're discussing here. Then this bill also contains another element, namely a proposal to amend the arms law so that we can ban the transport of arms between countries other than Denmark in the future when it comes to specific countries of dispatch. In 2004, a provision was inserted into the Arms Act so that the transportation of arms between countries other than Denmark could be prohibited in the case of specific beneficiary countries. As a rule, an arms embargo means avoiding arms coming to a particular country, but we can see that the international sanctions regime also bans the transport of arms from the country affected by the embargo in individual cases. With this proposal, we are taking into account developments in this area in order to ensure that Denmark can also comply with its international obligations in the future. With those comments, I should like to thank you for your comments and look forward to further consideration here in Parliament and, of course, I am available to answer any questions that may arise.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314152739	The first question has already been raised, and that is from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314152743	Thank you. As I also said in my speech, I believe that the Minister for Justice has a sincere desire to create more security among citizens. The Minister is quite right that there has been an escalation of what is totally unacceptable. However, does the Minister not agree that although we have continuously seen stricter penalties we do not see developments going the other way there has been no similar development in the fact that we can see, year by year, that there are fewer firearms and fewer shootings? In other words, does the Minister think that the only way to achieve more peaceful and quiet streets is to increase the minimum penalty and the penalty?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314152838	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314152839	Yeah, because for the longer time people are in prison, they don't hurt anyone else.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314152847	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314152848	Then it should be the case that we saw fewer shootings and fewer firearms, because the penalty has only gone up, and we have also received a minimum penalty. We have not seen a reduction in the level of penalties, minimum penalties and penalties. Yet it comes in waves, and it also follows a great deal between gangs and biker groups. So I simply cannot follow the logic of the Minister, in other words that the mere fact that someone is in prison longer means that there will be a reduction in the number. It is really just to try to understand that it alone should ensure more peace and quiet in the streets.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314152933	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314152934	It doesn't do that alone. We are also looking at a biker gang package that hopefully needs to do a lot of good things for law-abiding citizens and really sad things for bikers and gang members. But it is also because the world is evolving. If you look at the first gang package, gang package I, there's been a development. Back then, it was the rockers who fought each other. Since then, we've had a lot of gang groups. I think we should also see it in this context. Those gang groups are evolving all the time. You can't keep up with when new gang groups have been formed and how they fractionate. That's why we have a challenge for more and more of these gangs to come, and it's them that we have to do something to put them in jail. Let's finally put them in jail for a long time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314153019	Mrs. Zenia Stampe, the Radicals.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314153021	But unfortunately, as I also said, the reality is that we have had these gang wars every couple of years for the last 10 years. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Justice: if it happens again, that is, that there will be a new gang war with many shootings, what are we going to do? We could say in 2019 or 2020, because then those who have been given 21⁄2 years have come out again, perhaps extremely hardened, because they have started working a little less with rehabilitation. I hope not, but one might fear that. In other words, does the Minister have any idea whether to raise the minimum penalty once again if it turns out that this was not what was needed to end the gang wars definitively?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314153116	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314153117	But shouldn't we try to solve the challenges we face today here and now instead of looking at what is happening in 2019 and 2020 and 2025? Yes, the world can look very different in 2050 if we're still away here etc. Well, right now we're facing a challenge where bikers and gang members have been shooting in the I'm not saying this solves everything. This is a beautiful flower in the lovely bouquet we are now tying like a rocker gang package, where we take a hard hold all around. I fully acknowledge that this does not only do it, but I do feel that it is also a matter of sending a signal. The world is evolving, the criminals are evolving and becoming more raw, and that is why it is always about us having a response as well. Besides, of course, trying to get some better people out of the prisons is another discussion... it's also about them having to sit in for quite a while to keep them away from the streets. I want them to know that if they carry these guns around, they're gonna get a punishment that really fucks.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314153226	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314153228	When I ask, it is because in connection with three gang packages we have been told that now came the instrument that made us not see a gang war again. And that's just why I'm asking, if we look at another one, is this the screw with no end, or have we reached the level now? Is that what the Minister thinks? Or will the Minister be prepared to step up his sentence again? In fact, yes or no can be answered. Or can we count on this to be the last time, and if it doesn't work, we recognise once and for all that this is actually the wrong way and that we have to find new means?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314153304	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314153305	Well, since I haven't finished my evening school course in crystal ball looking with a future perspective, I just don't know what's going to happen in 5 and 10 years. But I certainly know that if we do nothing today, it will only get worse. I think we should recognise that that is also what I was talking about in my reply to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen that the criminals are also evolving. After all, we have far more gang groups today than we had last time, we made a biker gang package because things are evolving. And then I say, now we tighten the screw, now we raise the minimum penalty here. In my view, it should not just be about minimum penalties in all areas. I agree, in fact, that this is something to be used with caution, but we are doing so here. And then there comes a bigger gang package, which of course takes on more. However, if we are to oppose criminals and if we are to try to provide citizens with security, then we also need severe penalties for the crimes committed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314153358	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314153401	Thank you. It is nice to hear that the Minister makes use of evening school offers in Denmark. Many enjoy it. However, I was a little concerned about this with evidence in relation to tougher penalties and what actually works and whether we know whether it works in connection with, for example, the possession of weapons. And I could then listen to the answers that were like to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, that it was also a little bit about when they were locked away, they didn't cause any trouble. That is an argument that I have heard from the Minister before, but if we are thinking this idea at the end of the day, then we can ask: why is it enough for eight years? What if they get in trouble when they get out after eight years? So, does the Minister really think that this is an argument that can be used if we want to do something sensible and long-term about this challenge that we all agree on?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314153448	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314153449	But what is the answer? You can ask a lot of questions, and if you have no answers, I think: shall we not punish? Should we then say that if we were largely not punishing, then we could probably, in common understanding and conversation, come to the conclusion that the criminals should not be criminals? I have, of course, endeavoured to be very, very honest when I say that when they are locked in, they do no harm. That's one part of it. But I also believe somewhere that if you run around with a weapon you have illegally and if you know that, as the penalties are tightened up, it can cost you a 2, 3, 4, 5 years, then you will think about it. And if they don't think about it, that's fine. 'Cause then they're gonna be in here for a really long time, and it's good for all of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314153537	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314153538	Now I also heard the minister speaking today about the experiments being carried out in the City of Copenhagen with detention in his own home, where it was also the very great rhetoric that the minister was out in the evening school. But now we know that something actually works, and we know that when we're dealing with criminals, it's about creating a different reality for them. It's about this rehabilitation, both if you've committed crime, but also before, i.e. how we do preventive rehabilitation. And is it not a toolbox that the Minister could make a little more use of instead of being consistent and constantly saying, as I have actually heard the Minister say since he took office, that harsher penalties are the answer to everything? In other words, should we not start an evidence-based work to look at what actually works, instead of just driving on some sort of feeling or something you've seen in a crystal ball that says: harsher penalties?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314153634	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314153635	But it is also about the sense of justice in the people. I fully understand that this is going on two legs, and I fully agree that it is also about what we are resocialising in general when we talk about punishment. Now we have here about biker gang members, where I think there is a little longer between the snaps when we have to resocialise. There, of course, we have to look at exit efforts and all that, and I fully agree with that. But it is also for me about justice and the sense of justice, and when I am out today reacting to the fact that you can be held in custody at home, it is simply because I was fainting when I found out that you could. I simply cannot deal with that. There should almost have been a truck drove in with oxygen devices to keep me standing. Because I was simply so shocked that this is what is happening in our country. It's a complete mockery of the victims that they say you can be taken into custody in your home. I've never heard anything more foolish.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314153723	No one else has asked for brief comments, so we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked for the floor at all, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314153741	I think I'm gonna pull it a little bit so the Justice Minister can get ready for his next case. Because it is the case that when the debate is opened, and it is now, it is the Minister for Justice who is being given the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314153810	Thank you. The motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party raises some important questions, and the government certainly has sympathy for the idea behind the motion for a resolution. Of course, it is frustrating if the police do not receive and use the surveillance images or videos held by citizens in the investigation and investigation of offences. Of course, when you as a citizen turn to the police with photos, video material and other relevant information for the investigation of crime, you have to be taken seriously. That is why I also believe that a digital solution is a good idea to ensure that private companies and companies can easily and simply hand over surveillance material to the police. We are therefore working to ensure that a solution is put in place so that the police can better use surveillance material from private and companies in their search and investigation. This is an important initiative, because technological development means that more and more people today can quickly and easily document crimes and that, for example, we can have them. photos and video material that may affect the work of the police. At the same time, we are also looking at the possibilities, for example. stores have to share information about thefts and other forms of crime with each other. Finally, a general survey has been launched to identify problems relating to citizens' contact with the police and what initiatives need to be taken to improve contact. In the survey, the police's acquisition and use of photos and video material from private and companies is an independent track. We will therefore do our utmost to ensure that the problem is properly resolved. In relation to the proposal that the police should publish pictures they receive from citizens of possible offences, I am more sceptical. It is and must be a police task to assess how recordings are to be used in the investigation, just as it is a police task to publish a description or other information to lead to a perpetrator. In addition, it is very intrusive to be hanged out as a criminal in the public domain, for example. on social media or elsewhere on the Internet, especially when considering how difficult it is to delete information from the Internet or from the collective memory. In many cases, therefore, publication will not match the offence committed. And that is why the police today can only publish pictures if some special conditions of the Code of Procedure are met. And that is how I think it should be forward-looking. Despite the fact that the government can thus support some of the ideas behind the resolution, the government cannot support the proposal in its entirety.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314154109	There is one person who has asked for a brief comment, and that is Mr Seligman. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314154114	So, the Minister says that there is a lot of sympathy for the resolution. But now sympathy is known to me free and non-committal. That is why I would like to ask the Minister about the solution that the Minister believes should be made. Because some kind of solution needs to be put in place so that citizens can approach the police more easily with these pictures. It may be a challenge, but in relation to the citizens I have talked to and the many cases that have been in this area, it is not the case that the citizens have not been able to get in touch with the police. There it has been the case that the police did not want to relay the pictures taken. So does the Minister not see that the proposal on which the government is working only contains one of two parts? That is simply not good enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314154201	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314154202	That is why there is more than one approach to it. Well, you can discuss how easy it is to give the police this material and what to pick up. There are many different experiences of it, I think. I think it would be good to have a digital solution where you can send everything you have here and now, and the police can quickly see whether it can be used in the investigation or not. And then, of course, you can talk about the other track. Because it is a clue in the mapping of the meeting between citizens and police that we are in the process of looking at whether the police can then even more consider whether in a case there is a clear crime that anyone can see and whether you can then more quickly put pictures on the Internet and social media or elsewhere. I just think it should be the police who assess it, but I have, in a way, a great deal of understanding of the proposal. I just think it should be the police who assess it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314154253	Sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314154254	So it is in this motion for a resolution. It will always be the police who have the foot on the brake in relation to what should not be passed on. This is already the case, as you can see, if you read this proposal. I would like to ask the Minister another question. There have been a number of examples of cases which I must say are deeply unfair and which call for the rules to be changed in some way. What do the Minister think of some of the cases that have been advanced over the past year and a half? Have the things you have seen been fair, that is, things where otherwise completely law-abiding people who have been subjected to a crime put it on the Internet in good faith? Is it reasonable that they have been punished in the way outlined in the media? And if that is unreasonable, what will the Minister do about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314154339	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314154340	I fully agree that some of the cases that we have all seen being publicised may seem extremely grotesque. I mean, you get a higher penalty for putting something out than the perpetrator gets. That is why I think we will also be looking at the level of penalties, i.e. what the level of fines should be for those who do so. Because I think it is important to hold on to the fact that it is of no use that we all go around making ourselves police or judges of what may be laid out. So that's the job of the police. But I certainly think it is relevant to look at whether the level of fines and penalties are fair and fair in relation to the punishment that the real criminal, if I may say so, is being given.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314154429	No one else has asked for short comments, so we thank the Minister for Justice and go to the rapporteur's line. This is Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314154441	Digital documentation in the field of crime is becoming increasingly widespread. Several have surveillance cameras, and the majority of the Danish population carry a camera in their pockets, namely their phone. In the Social Democratic Party, our position on the publication of images and videos is very clear. In a community governed by the law, it must be the police and only the police who decide whether to publish pictures of suspects. We must not compromise on any of the most fundamental elements of our community building, namely that we have left our powers to the police and our powers of sanction to the courts. Therefore, it must never be up to the citizens themselves to decide on the publication of suspects, even on social media. It is simply not acceptable for citizens to judge themselves as to who is to be called upon or not. There may be many cases where the case looks perfectly clear with lay eyes, i.e. where some have openly stolen or done something else. But there are also many grey areas cases where it is not clear what the offence is about, and where it becomes a claim against claims and, at worst, completely innocents risk being hanged out because of misunderstandings. But it's not the same as the fact that we can't improve police systems. In the Social Democratic Party, we ourselves have repeatedly advocated that the police should become better and more effective when it comes to using the images of the citizens. That is actually what the proposal here proposes, and on the part of the Social Democrats, we would very much like to help the police to have better access to the publication of image material, and we would like it to be on a special page, where one can then share the pictures on social media or other, and then the pictures will be deleted when the police delete them from that page. It also avoids being hung out forever because it simply has to be the rule that only the police should share. However, there are also places in the proposal that we are discussing here where we have doubts. And that is among other things. the part about when the police are to publish the pictures. We think it is wise to leave this to the police, and the proposal can be interpreted as meaning that the police should not publish pictures in special cases only. And what are the special cases where the police do not have to publish pictures? Is it when they still know the perpetrator in the picture and therefore can drive out and pick him up or her? Is it when the police estimate that it will be fatal if the perpetrator is labeled a criminal for life? Is it when it's a family dispute or a minor? When are these individual cases where publication may be waived? This is not clear from the proposal we are discussing here. Therefore, we cannot support the proposal as it stands, but we would very much like to find each other on the last part of the proposal, so that we maintain that the police are the ones who decide whether or not to publish pictures. In other words, if it is formulated better, we are happy to support the proposal here. In fact, we believe that a new platform is needed for the publication of images and, above all, an effective procedure, so we will see that more images are being published, and also quickly, because there are also some things in relation to speed in this. In this context, for example, one could imagine a special fixed track system whereby the images can be sent to a central police authority, which can quickly assess whether there is obvious crime, so that the images can be quickly laid out. That would probably strengthen both the experience of the citizens and, in fact, the fight against crime.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314154858	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314154902	Thank you for that and thank you for the constructive rapporteur's speech, as I think it was. I understand that the Social Democrats think that there are some good tactics in this proposal and that we can improve it if we take out the last part of the proposal, and I would just like to say that I am quite open to that. If that means that the Social Democrats will support the proposal, we can make that arrangement. So I just want to hear the rapporteur: if the last part is taken out, can the Social Democrats support the proposal? By the way, I would like to say that I think it is a very good idea with a fixed track scheme so points for it, it was good.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314154936	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314154938	We support the proposal if the last part is deleted, and it could actually be that we could get this part with a fixed track scheme into the proposal. We can, of course, have a good discussion on that. However, if we stick to the principle that it is the police who choose which images to publish, but with a clear indication that we expect images to be published more widely and more quickly, we support the proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314155003	- Do you want to see him? - Yes, sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen his second remark? Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314155006	I think this is very constructive and positive, so I would just like to thank the Social Democrat rapporteur for his statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314155012	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314155013	Thank you. Then we also had politics in the Parliamentary Chamber today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314155017	No one else has asked for brief comments. So we move forward in the rapporteur's line, and that is the rapporteur of the Left, Mr President. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314155028	Thank you. Paragraph 812 of the Code of Procedure states that photographs of a suspect may be presented to persons outside the police only if (i) the person concerned is reasonably suspected of an offence subject to public prosecution and (ii) the action is deemed to be of major importance for the investigation and (iii) the person concerned is suspected of having committed an offence which is public indictment. 2, decision on the display of photographs is taken by the police. The Left does not believe that this is the way things should be done, but does not say that we are not open to seeing whether we can technically and technologically extend the use of the publication of photos. But still gone: the police make the decision. It should not be up to individuals to do so. Having said that, I have to say that in the Left, of course, we have a full understanding of the background to the proposal, and we also have a full understanding of the frustration with which we, as a victim of a crime, can stand when we see that not so much is happening, despite the fact that we may have pictures from a surveillance camera of the person we think has, for example. Stolen in your business or whatever it may be. There was also a case here recently. It was my 12-year-old son Valdemar who came home and said: "Dad, have you seen someone here who has been flashing, and he gets 2,500 kroner. I'm fine, and then someone put a picture of him on Facebook... that's the mother... and then she gets a fine of 5,000 kroner. That can't be right. It is hard to argue against the fact that it seems at first sight wrong. I would just like to say that the Left is of the opinion that it is the punishment for the degenerate that is too low. The principle must still be that it is therefore the police who decide whether criminals or suspected criminals should then have their image published. As I said, I understand that one may want to take matters into one's own hands and do something active, not least if one has often been exposed to shoplifting or other, but we just have to stick to the fact that when people have it this way, it is, of course, I would say to the Minister of Justice, a frustration at the lack of response from the police, and we should remember that the social pact, the pact we have made to live in a society like the Danish one, is that the police react because if the police do not respond, it is that people take the law into their own hands, and then it is that we get vigilant. So we're not living in the Wild West, where you have these wanted posters, dead or alive, if there's someone you think should be wanted in that way. We must therefore also bear in mind the electronic possibilities that we have today. If there is a kid who has caught a Ritter Sport in Meny and then a picture of him is thrown on Facebook, then it is a picture that can lie there forever and pursue him, even though we would really like to give him another chance. There is also the question of proportionality. The crime must therefore be about proportional to publishing its image on the electronic media. So sympathy, and again I agree with the Danish People's Party's sympathy is free, and there you do not get so far but if we could end it by making greater use of the technological opportunities of the police, it is not so bad even, and then the debate here has brought something with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314155412	No one has asked for short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Rune Lund from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314155437	In this area, the Danish People's Party has a fundamental position that vigilante is okay, that is, that all people and companies should be free to post pictures of anyone and then accuse them of committing something criminal. No other parties in the Folketing think this is a good approach to the problem, fortunately. However, this proposal is of a slightly different nature, for as it says: "The Danish Parliament instructs the government to take the necessary initiatives during the current parliamentary year to establish a new digital platform where surveillance images collected by citizens who have been exposed to crime, for example. burglary, theft, robbery and shoplifting can be made public by the police and can thus be shared on websites and social media, if police reports have been filed on the same occasion. It is added at the end: in some cases, however, the police must be able to derogate from publication if the decision is based on police judgement. It is therefore a step away from vigilanteness, as the proposal stands here, in the sense that after all, it is the police who have to publish the pictures, which is the right approach. However, there are still some problems in the way it is formulated. In particular, this is the last sentence that, in exceptional cases, the police must be able to derogate from it, that is to say, that the police will actually be turned into a kind of rubber stamp, in which it is now the case that a police professional assessment is being made of whether or not to post pictures. And I would say that the sentence that comes before can in fact be interpreted in such a way that the police have to post the pictures if only a police report has been filed. As far as the proposal is concerned, we cannot support it. However, I would like to say that we really want to discuss whether there is something we can do better in this area. When a citizen approaches the police, for example. is a business owner and has a clothing store and has had an expensive coat stolen, is it so easy for the citizen to approach the police? The police deal with the approach in the best way to ensure that it is effective, fast, but also proper, treatment of, for example. image material that may come in from citizens or companies? I think that might be interesting to look at. And that, in fact, is what I heard the Minister of Justice say at the outset. But there are also some things that need to be borne in mind here. For us, it is certainly important not to relax police judgement and not to lower the standard of when to publish a picture. However, we would like to look at just how to make it easier for the citizen to approach the police, have a dialogue with the police, that it is clear what requirements you have to meet when sending material to the police, that it can be done in an easy way, that we are looking at what kind of processes are within the police and whether it is the right ones to do the job, and whether there should be some kind of digital support that can make it easier. It is difficult to be against doing things as efficiently and as sensibly as possible. But there are also some things we should bear in mind here, I think. You know, you're innocent until proven guilty. Just because somebody took a picture of you and sent it to the police doesn't mean you're convicted. There must also be something about proportionality in what has been said by other rapporteurs. So, if you've stolen a pack of gum from the local kiosk, you don't have to retweet thousands of times on the social media, because you put a picture up by you, even though you have your fingers too deep in the gum pack in the local kiosk. So there's something about proportionality. There is also the fact that the police can solve crimes without necessarily putting a picture on a digital platform. In other words, it is far from being the case that it is always the case that it is necessary to put out a picture in order to solve a specific crime. There we also have to admit that this should not be a kind of new gaping stick, i.e. a new electronic state-sponsored gaping stick on the part of the Folketing. It seems that there may be some improved opportunities to look at this, and that is actually what I hear the Minister of Justice say. However, as the proposal stands here, we cannot support it, but we would very much like to take part in a dialogue with the parties of the Folketing and hear what the police say and get some input on how to do it here. Because there are some things we can do better and easier, but then I think we should look at it. We just shouldn't lower the standards when it's a police professional assessment that has to be the basis for this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314155928	Someone has asked for a brief comment, and that is Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314155932	I really think that what came from the rapporteur was quite constructive, that is to say, with a small limit, in relation to the fact that the matter has already been resolved, so that you do not need to put pictures out. And then there was something about the last sentence of the proposal itself that Enhedslisten does not like. So I will then reach out to the Enhedslisten and ask: if we now table an amendment on the three things and now it was the three things that I heard that something had to be done about the Enhedslisten can support the resolution?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314160004	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314160005	I'd like to discuss that with Mr. Knox. Peter Kofod Poulsen. I would like to say that, on the basis of what I have just said, I would be better off with a vote which says that the Danish Parliament is instructing the Minister for Justice to convene negotiations where we are discussing this on the basis of the comments that have fallen in the Chamber. If this is the kind of proposal to which this might be changed, then I can at least say that I would recommend to my parliamentary group that we should certainly support it. And then we'll take the discussion from that in our parliamentary group. So that'll be what I'd like best to do, but I'd like to have a word with Mr. Simpson. Peter Kofod Poulsen about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314160048	Sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen does not wish to make any further brief comments, and no one else has asked for the floor for short remarks to this rapporteur. So we thank the rapporteur, who can then go down. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Villum Christensen of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314160113	Thank you. In the absence of our rapporteur, I should like to say the following: the police can today choose whether to publish privately collected surveillance images as part of their investigation. In the Liberal Alliance, we believe that the police can best assess whether it is beneficial for their investigation to use these privately collected images and whether they should also be published. After all, it is the police that have the monopoly of investigation, and they should also have the freedom to be able to take the investigative steps they consider necessary. Of course, we understand the intention of the proposal here, namely that we should be better at using the everyday technology that people have, but we do not really like to have to publish images of possible • I repeat: possible • offenders. This can easily become a slippery path in our view, and the publication will then not match the crime. That is, in fact, the main reason why we cannot support the proposal. But we also see the possibility of having the view kicked into some model, as long as we are finally sure that it is a public authority that decides whether to use these pictures or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314160247	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314160259	It is always offensive when you, as a citizen, do not feel that the police give priority to crime as theft, and that is why the resolution is also sympathetic to shopkeepers and others who do not feel that their reporting of theft and similar crime is being taken very seriously. All crime must be investigated and solved by the police, and fortunately that is also the rule rather than the exception. We live in a constitutional state where the rule of law weighs heavily. This means, among other things, that the police are responsible for the investigation and proof of offences. If, in certain cases, the public has important and decisive evidence, it must be handed over to the police, who must assess whether it should be part of the investigation. It must and must always be a police professional assessment of the desirability of public assistance in the specific investigation of an offence. That is why we do not consider it desirable that the police should, as a general rule, be required to publish surveillance images. We fear that this action will really end up punishing doubles, first among the local population and then in the courtroom. We are concerned about this type of double sentence. We also fear that the measure stigmatises the suspect for the rest of our lives because of a stupid act once in our youth. In addition, we will also ensure that the publication of surveillance images does not result in the family of the suspect being shamed, exhibited and expelled by the local community. It could be argued here that people should simply refrain from committing crime, which, of course, I agree with, but we must protect those who have not chosen the consequences of others' actions. We are completely sympathetic to those shopkeepers and others who do not feel that their reviews are being dealt with, and that is why we are also open to action in this area. But it must be considered carefully, and it must be within the framework of what characterises our rule of law. That's also why we're saying that if the police want to make a web page for this, then we're gonna have to talk about it, but it has to come from the police. In conclusion, I must also point out in all honesty that the authors of the motion for a resolution, among other things, are the authors of the motion for a resolution. together with the current government, the police have imposed resource-intensive and burdensome tasks such as border control, which drains the police resources of resources, such as: must be moved from ordinary police duties. That is why it sounds a little hollow to us when the proposers say they want to help, among other things. shop owners, while at the same time removing resources from nuclear police tasks in favour of useless symbolistic border controls.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314160540	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next is Mrs Zenia Stampe, the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314160548	I would like to be completely honest and admit that I have become a tiny bit more positive, not with the proposal in its form now, but with the subject, because it is true that there are quite large perspectives in the images, recordings, the evidence that we increasingly have, even when a crime is committed. There are big prospects in using them for the police. After all, it is not long since we had a debate in this Chamber about breaking and entering, where, unfortunately, the rate of clearing is very low. So there may be a perspective here. And you cannot blame citizens, shopkeepers or private people who have had break-ins, for wanting to publish photos themselves if their experience is that they are not given priority by the police, even if they have actually produced evidence, or at least something that they themselves perceive as evidence. So I think it is quite clear that there is a basis for discussing the perspectives of this documentation and the interplay between police and citizens, especially in cases where there is evidence or something that can be used as evidence, proof. Now you can never be quite sure, and that is, of course, one of the reasons why there are concerns about this proposal: think if you get to hang the wrong one. But there is no doubt that there may be something here to pick up. That is why I would also like to say that this is an area in which we would also like to take a greater interest, but I do not think this proposal in its concrete form is the answer. However, I think it might be useful to call on the police, perhaps also in a discussion with us legislators, to draw up a strategy for the use of this kind of material. But we're just not ready to go along with this model at all. First of all, I would like to say that it has not been worked through at all with all due respect. I also asked the rapporteur whether this is something that is known from other countries. No, Denmark should be the first place, and we should be leading. I think we can be, but maybe this is a step too far, especially since there are a lot of considerations about such a model. I would be very afraid of hanging out the wrong person or ruining the police profession, because we often see that the police do not want people to be asked for themselves because it can be counterproductive for their work. I think we should have that respect for the police. They're the ones who best judge how to use this material. But maybe we could, and that's where my speech should end... call on the police to come up with a strategy on how to use this kind of material to a greater extent, so that we can pass a few more sentences, not least in burglary cases. In fact, I think that is an interesting and perspectiveary way to go, but we are not on such a model where you can just go in and upload photos where you don't even know if it's those who have committed the crime and where you're required by the police to publish these pictures. It's gotta be a police assessment. After all, there is concern for the person you hang out with, but there can be others as well. It may also be that the police say that they also need that there is a difference, and that when they are calling for some really serious crimes, it should not disappear in the amount of requests for people who have stolen, perhaps not 10 litres of milk, but something in Brugsen; so that they will also be able to prioritize who they are asking for publicly, and use it to prioritize the really tough cases, so that they are focused on, and so that we do not just get used to the fact that faces of people who are wanted all the time appear, and therefore also stop biting at them, take notice and think whether they are now some we have seen and met ourselves. So I think it would be good if we could take this discussion further into the police force, with respect for the fact that it is they who have the police profession, both in relation to the general discussion about what the prospects are in this and what the specific procedures should be, and also in relation to the individual case; i.e. whether there are some pictures, some material to be published, or whether one prefers to keep it within the police, because one considers it to be the best.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314161036	We thank the rapporteur. The next in line is Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314161045	I might as well say straight away: the SF will not support this motion for a resolution tabled by the DF. I fully understand the frustration you can feel as a mother if your child is exposed to a flasher or if you as a shopkeeper experience theft over and over again. The same applies to the other examples we hear about. It's extremely frustrating. But the answer is not to get such a public gauntlet, a public court. It does not belong in a community governed by the rule of law that it is the citizen who should thus commit self-determination. One of the worst examples we've ever looked at was not a citizen, but a media, a newspaper that in 2010 put a picture of a man on the front page, it was this horrible murder in Herning on a young girl New Year's Night, and because the man lived in the property where the girl was found, he was hung out on the front page. Of course, this is a rather violent example. But in many other cases it may also be due to mistakes, misunderstandings or disagreements about what has happened. I would like to congratulate the Social Democrat rapporteur. I think she made a very good speech about the dangers of this. But I also think it sounds like we all agree that it is unreasonable for citizens to experience this kind of frustration, so they have to resort to this, because I do not think that this is the first thing they do, in the cases we hear about. It becomes a frustration when they experience that they are not taken seriously, or that there is no time to deal with these matters, which can be very serious. That is why we must also take that discussion with the police, and I believe that the Minister for Justice is also prepared to do so, to ensure that this frustration does not arise, to ensure that you do not feel rejected if you have been robbed several times as a shopkeeper, or if you are the mother of a child who has been exposed to a flasher or that it does not arise in many of the other cases. We must have that discussion with the police and then make it clear that we have, and we all know that, a police force under extreme pressure. And if you don't add more resources, that's the perpetual discussion we've been prioritizing the police in their tasks. It is a political decision that there must be border guarding, that there must be guarding of terrorism and all the other things. So it's not fair to just point the finger at the police and say, "Why don't you come when there's been a home invasion?" Why don't you do that and that and that? There we need to ensure that there are the resources that are needed. I personally like DF's rapporteur, and I think he is a kind man. However, I think that this proposal is an extremely populist use of the quite reasonable frustration that can occur when people find that what they have been subjected to is not taken seriously. I'm sure we can all get that feeling, so you eventually think that you have no other option but to put up this picture that you have of the person you know you've done this. I'm sure we can all get that feeling. I think I could have that if something had happened to me, and I didn't get taken seriously, or if there wasn't time to investigate it. I think it's a very human feeling. But that is not the kind of feeling that we can base a legal society on precisely because of all the cases where it is not reasonable where there are misunderstandings or where a person on a grained surveillance photo might look quite different. I just need to say that. I do not think it is fair to take advantage of the situation and the cases we have heard about for this. Instead, I think we can find a common ground and have a discussion with the police and say: it cannot be that someone should feel rejected or that these things are not being taken care of; we know that you are under pressure, but it is politically determined that so many of your man lessons are going to be used for this, how can we solve it together?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314161535	Thank you. There is a brief comment from the kind man, sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314161542	Thank you. With all due respect to the rapporteur, I would just like to ask you about the first example mentioned in the rapporteur's speech: the example of this Danish newspaper, which in 2010 presented a picture of a man on the front page, which thus turned out to have nothing to do with what the newspaper accused him of. This has very little to do with what is in the proposal we are now considering. What we are discussing now is, of course, a proposal for a digital platform that can ensure that you can get across the ramp with some of the good surveillance images that exist so that citizens can tip the police. Not because we need a public mouthpiece, because we should not, but we must ensure that the police can talk to relevant people so that some of these many burglaries can be solved, which have been mentioned by previous rapporteurs in their rapporteur's speeches. There was talk in the rapporteur's speech about resources for the police, and I would like to know what resources the SF would like to set aside, because I have noticed that the SF would like to talk about resources for the police, but you do not want to be part of the multi-year agreement for the police, where you can sit directly with and influence how many resources the police should have for different things. So will the rapporteur not give any figures on this? It could, for example, be done. be for how many extra officers are needed, or for how much resources we have to add beyond those that will be added in the next few years.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314161705	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314161707	I have something for the first comment. The comments on the rapporteur's proposal that we are dealing with right now state: where surveillance images can be provided with a description of the crime committed, so that citizens have the opportunity to share this information themselves from the website, for example. on social media. I still think that taking the step of saying that there should be this digital forum where you can put pictures in, the police should stand for it, and then you should be able to share them on social media, is a slippery path. However, in relation to the specific questions about police resources and these I think are very reasonable, because we often end up talking about police resources in this area in particular, so we do not think that there should be border guarding on the part of the SF. This was, of course, something that was introduced at the request of among others. DF, and because at some point 11⁄2 years ago there were a lot of refugees. It was handled that way. But we now see extremely few We do not think there is a need for the border guard we are seeing today. We can also see that there is a huge delay from the time when the reform of, among others, was carried out, for historical reasons. Police student training, where a year of applications was much reduced, so we also have a historical delay from time to time before going to SU as a student and so on. There's nothing we can do about that now. We would have liked to have been in the police conciliation circle, but we just thought it was unreasonable to pay for it with young people's youth education.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314161858	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314161900	The debate on border controls will have to take another day. But now the rapporteur was kind enough to read out the comments on the proposal, so I would like to ask something else. How does it differ from what the police are doing today? In other words, what the rapporteur mentioned could be a slippery slope does the police in individual cases today. We just find that incredibly many shopkeepers have some amazing pictures of some people who have stolen jackets for many, many thousands of kroner, which cannot be covered by insurance because there has been no violence, and they must then cover that loss themselves. They're left behind and can't get a picture like that published. I think that is intolerable to listen to, especially when you get so many inquiries that I also assume that the SF's legal rapporteur can get, from self-employed workers who are left behind and who are laughing at their own money.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314161949	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314161950	The police can publish pictures today if they think it's the right thing to do. It sounds to the rapporteur as if there is no difference between this proposal and practice today, but there is. Otherwise, the rapporteur would probably not have tabled the proposal either. But even if we cannot support this, I also tried to say that we would actually like to cooperate with DF on how we can find a way to use the photos taken by the police, not for publication, not so that they are located in a place that you can then link to from your Twitter profile or from your Facebook profile, but so that it will be in a way where the police can easily get these pictures. I think they're gonna get them today, too. I think most people will contact the police before they put something like this up in any of the cases we've heard about. But we need to have a discussion with the police about what is missing. Are those crew lessons? Is that money? Are these priorities? What is it? Because I think this is a slippery slope, and I do not think that the rapporteur thinks that it is the right way to go as the first step to put out a picture, perhaps a grainy surveillance picture. So I actually interpret it more as an answer to a frustration that I hope we can deal with in a different way.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314162110	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314162119	Thank you, President. A while ago, I visited Laura and Henrik. They have a fashion shop in Silkeborg, and they were exposed to a shoplifting shop where a very, very expensive jacket was stolen. They experienced a pull on the shoulders of the authorities. Nothing happened, and they decided to put a picture of the thief on Facebook themselves. Shortly thereafter, the thief was caught because of good tips from citizens to the police. Thus, a slave's story had a positive outcome in that the thief was captured and held accountable because of good public tips. Unfortunately, Laura and Henrik were reported to the police because with the publication of the picture they had broken the rules, and then they had to be punished. Over the last few years we have seen a series of cases where citizens have been exposed to crime and in powerlessness over the lack of interest in solving these cases by the authorities have decided to put surveillance photos on, among other things. social media. It is illegal, and in the various cases the people have often been severely fined. The rules we have today are changing victim and perpetrator. We punish the victims, and the perpetrators are suddenly turned into victims. It's not fair. I think it's far-fetched and it's time we stopped it. In an earlier proposal from the Danish People's Party, we would set this very free, as Enhedslisten's rapporteur rightly remarked. In the proposal we have put forward here, we are merely requiring the police to publish these pictures to a greater extent than today. In other words, we still have the sanctions that exist today when it comes to going through the police. We must not break the rules that exist; we just make sure that the police make use of the many good images collected by private people. It is, of course, my hope that the Folketing will support it. I have also noted that the government will make a proposal aimed at solving the same problem that we hope to resolve with this proposal. In this connection, I have to say that the government's proposals will not, of course, close the gap that exists today, but are only a patch on a large wound, so we cannot immediately promise that support either. However, we hope that this is something we will discuss at a later stage. I would like to thank the rapporteurs who have been asked to comment and various solutions on how to improve the proposal that is here. I think that is a good thing. I hope that this is something we can talk about in the Committee on Legal Affairs when we have to deal with it there. I hope that we can find a good solution, which may also contain more parties than those who immediately express support for the proposal today. At least that is something that we will certainly continue to work on from our side. There are plenty of these cases where ordinary people get a totally unfair treatment of the public and where they swap the victim and the criminal. We do not like that, and we want that problem solved, and that is why we are continuing this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314162443	Mr President, there is one brief comment. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314162455	Thank you. The rapporteur mentioned the example of Silkeborg, and I just have to understand the proposal of the Danish People's Party correctly: do you think that the same thing should apply, that is to say that it should be welcomed to put the picture on the web if it was a 15-year-old boy who had done so?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314162512	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314162515	Well, the example of Silkeborg had never happened if the proposal that we have put forward and which we are discussing today had been implemented, because then they would not have been in that situation. Then the people who own a shop in Silkeborg and who were exposed to something would have gone to the police, and the police would have put the picture on their website. People could then have shared it from their profile, unless of course the police had said that there was a good reason not to do so, i.e. that there was an estimate that clearly spoke against it. That is to say, if such a system could be set up as we propose, then it would be done away with the wildwest states that are already on the social media today. So I hope that this proposal can lead to some sort of control over it, so that we can begin to stem the problems that really are today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314162602	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314162604	Well, it is because it says here in the proposal: "The police must, as part of such a system, always be required to publish surveillance photos unless a police judgement speaks against this. It must therefore be the rule rather than the exception that the police publish surveillance images. So that's why I'm asking, where's the limit? If it's a 15-year-old who steals a Yankie bar in Brugsen, should photos be published there? There's gotta be some kind of limit. Now the term "police science" is used here, and it is a grateful expression, you might say, because then you have been given the responsibility. But if it were for the Danish People's Party, where was the border?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314162638	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314162640	I don't think anyone's thinking about putting a picture out of a 15-year-old who's gonna chop a Yankie bar. However, in the cases we have seen over the past year and a half, we are dealing with people who run a business and who sell, for example. expensive clothing for many, many thousands per year. They have to cover this loss themselves. Well, that could have a huge impact. Well, I'll just have to say to Mr. Knox. Preben Bang Henriksen, that if there are any restrictions that are wanted by the Left and if that is a priority for the Left, then we are prepared to look at it when we deal with the resolution in the Committee on Legal Affairs. So if the Left thinks it is very important to take a position on it and it is estimated that it should be people who are over 15 years of age or that it should be about a certain amount of money, then we are willing to discuss it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314162728	In doing so, we would like to thank the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314162745	The debate is open. Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314162804	Thank you for the floor, President. Today, we are embarking on a long and good discussion, hopefully, on the fact that the Danish Parliament is giving its consent to Denmark's accession to the trade agreement between the EU and Canada and, hopefully, more generally on global trade policy. Let me start there. Dark clouds are pulling together over world trade conditions. Following the US presidential elections, Donald Trump has already terminated trade agreements and announced the reintroduction of customs duties and other restrictions. If the new US zero-sum approach to trade is allowed to spread, it will clearly harm small export-dependent countries such as Denmark, it will slow down production, it will damage employment, and it will ultimately undermine the financing of our welfare societies. In the Social Democratic Party, we firmly believe that it is in Denmark's interest to be able to trade freely and easily with other countries, and we are also in favour of a trade agreement with Canada. There are several reasons for this. Firstly, a free trade agreement will make it easier and cheaper for European competitive companies to increase exports across the Atlantic. This means more jobs in Europe and in Denmark of high quality and good pay for the benefit of all citizens. We feed on our exports. In 2015, Denmark's exports of goods and services amounted to approx. 7.6 billion kr. to Canada. It can improve and we see an even greater potential by trading with a country such as Canada, which on so many crucial points is similar to Europe. Secondly, more trade creates growth and prosperity and it contributes decisively to the financing of our welfare societies. As a small country and a small economy, Denmark has always benefited from being open to the outside world and trading with other countries. When the competition is tightened up, we adapt and become more skilled. Thirdly, we are pleased and confident that the CETA chapter on trade and the labour market recognises the value of a coherent policy that can create decent work, a high level of worker protection combined with effective enforcement. The EU and Canada also recognise the importance of social dialogue and undertake to promote such dialogue. In the Agreement, the EU and Canada recognise each other's right to lay down labour market rules; labour law and practice must ensure the protection of fundamental principles and rights at work, including the right to organise themselves and to hold collective bargaining, the abolition of all forms of forced labour, the effective abolition of child labour and the elimination of discrimination in terms of employment and employment. Similarly, labour law must comply with the 2008 ILO Declaration on Social Justice with a view to fair globalisation, safety and health at work, minimum conditions of employment for employees, non-discrimination in terms of working conditions, including for migrant workers. Finally, the EU and Canada recognise that it is inappropriate to promote trade or investment through a reduction or relaxation of protection levels in their legislation and regulations in the labour market. Fourthly, we do not see the agreement opening up a barn door to privatisations and outbiddings. Both the EU and Canada have made a large number of reservations in this regard. This applies to education, healthcare, social services, water extraction, water purification, water distribution. To this end, the European Commission has announced that the CETA Agreement fully protects public services. The EU Member States will be able to operate public monopolies in the future if they so wish, and CETA will not force or encourage governments to privatise or deregulate public services. The Commission also stresses that CETA will not prevent a government from redeploying an earlier decision to privatise sectors. Fifthly, we are pleased that the parties to the negotiations have been listening to the criticism of the previous investment protection model, also known as ISDS. The ICS model of the CETA Agreement is more transparent, appointed permanent judges, so it acts more as a tribunal and will be impartial and independent. All in all, the CETA Agreement is one of the better and more progressive trade agreements between several states, as we have seen so far. This does not mean that everything is perfect or that everything is ambitious enough, but the emphasis of the agreement on employees' rights, on maintaining the EU's high standards, and that both the EU countries and Canada commit themselves to promoting sustainable trade and high standards of environmental and nature protection make it all in all a better agreement. In the social democracy, our hope is that the CETA agreement can be a new standard for trade agreements when, in future, hopefully, we will have to conclude new agreements with both Japan and the United States. The Social Democrats therefore support the motion for a resolution on Denmark's accession to the CETA Agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314163255	Thank you. There are brief comments. We'll start with the Enhedslisten, and that's sir. Søren Søndergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314163303	Thank you. Also in his speech here was Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen is very pleased that there were some references to ILO standards. The ILO is, after all, the UN International Labour Organisation, which quite rightly has standards that should be met. That is why I would like to ask: if there are any parties to the agreement that do not comply with the ILO standards, what happens about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314163339	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314163340	But it is also clear from the consolidated text of the agreement that the parties have undertaken to live up to it and to promote a high level of protection.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314163349	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314163352	I can confirm that it appears that they have committed themselves to it, but what my question was about is: what if they do not do it anyway? So, when it comes to the interests of capital, there is a court, but what can be done if the recommendations are not followed? I'm assuming that Mr. Knox... Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen is aware that Denmark does not fully comply with ILO recommendations. So the question is: what do you do if those recommendations are not followed? Isn't it just a bag of hot air that we're gonna get served here?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314163422	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314163424	I hope it is not a bag of hot air, and I do not think that what the Member States have committed themselves to is that either. Most of all, it is a step forward that it is even included in the agreement. I agree with the rapporteur that there is a lack of clarification of enforcement itself, and that is why I also said in my rapporteur's speech that not everything was equally ambitious. But it is still a significant step forward in relation to what we have seen in previous trade agreements, and I hope the rapporteur will agree with me on that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314163450	We're staying in the Enhedslisten. Nikolaj Villumsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314163456	Honestly, sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, it seemed mostly a confession case that there is just no consequence if ILO standards are not followed. What I signed up for to ask, sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen says, is a statement by Mr. Jeppe Kofod, the Socialist Member of the European Parliament who said recently: "Do not get me wrong. I would have preferred an agreement without any provisions on investment protection. I have no doubt for a second that both the Danish and Canadian courts are able to make both legal and reasonable decisions regardless of the color of the parties to proceedings. ▪ I would like to hear: Is Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen agrees with the statement of his socialist colleague?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314163548	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314163549	I agree that, in the best of all worlds, there was so much confidence between different states that are entering into an investment agreement like this that no additional dispute settlement system necessarily needed. But we must also note that if that confidence is not there or if it is to insure the investors who are taking great risks, that is to say that it creates extra security for investment, then I think it is a good idea. And most of all, I think it is a good idea with the model found in the ICS model, which has full transparency, where there are appeal options and where there are also permanent, impartial judges appointed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314163629	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314163631	So that means that Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen disagrees with Mr. Jeppe Cowfoot? Well, sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen believes that it is appropriate and necessary to put Danish courts out of effect and to set up a special court in contrast to his Socialist colleague in the European Parliament? I am surprised that the Social Democrats are wobbling in this way. Why does Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, that Mr. Jeppe Kofod is wrong?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314163659	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314163700	I do not think that Mr. Jeppe Kofod is wrong. In other words, if the rapporteur listened carefully, he would hear that I actually gave Mr. Jeppe Kopod is right. But at the same time I also know that the quote where it is, sir. Jeppe Kofod has explained why emphasis was placed on changing the system from an ISDS model to an ICS model, which I also know Mr. Jeppe Kofod in the European Parliament has voted in favour, presumably out of context. So I actually agree with my party colleague in the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314163724	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314163729	It was in this way, when the rapporteur began to appoint CETA as a progressive trade agreement, that I reacted because I think it is good enough that we should look for the progressives in this. When you look at the various articles, i.e. Chapter 22, Chapter 23, Chapter 24, which deals with sustainable development, which deals with workers' rights and the environment, there are precisely no consequences there. These are only intentions where consultation mechanisms and expert groups can then be set up, but we have the ICS that can really go in and knock if there is a company that feels unfairly treated. What is then taken up in support of this is the fact that it says that we should be able to achieve legitimate political objectives through legislation, and then we cannot be judged for it, but does the rapporteur not agree that it is up to the ICS Tribunal to assess whether it is a legitimate political objective or who is it according to the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314163831	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314163833	Yes, I agree with that, and I think that is also very clear from both the text of the agreement itself and from the interpretation document that has been there. I really think that it seems as if there is a fairly clear framework for what are some areas where companies cannot be successful, if it is, for example, that one complains that a state has adopted additional taxes or regulated different sectors. Nevertheless, with regard to the rapporteur's first question, I would like to say that I would have liked to have seen it, and that is also what I said in my rapporteur's speech that progress had been made. When I call this agreement one of the more progressive ones, it's because it's even included. It is not, of course, previously seen in trade agreements that we have all sorts of objectives in terms of promoting sustainable trade, that we put emphasis on high environmental standards and that they should follow the standards we have in the European Union, and that is what I mean when I say that this is one of the more progressive ones.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314163925	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314163927	But can the rapporteur please elaborate on this? Does the rapporteur really think that it is okay for us to put this up for evaluation? It's just things where we say this should be included in your assessments. We're not gonna tell you exactly how to interpret how these chapters are to be used. It's up to the ICS Tribunal to decide on these things. Does it not worry the rapporteur at all about the fact that we have 17 sustainability targets for the development of the world, which we are in danger of giving up through such an agreement as this one? Does that not concern the rapporteur at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314164002	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314164004	I do not have a general concern that we are sacrificing the sustainability objectives that we ourselves have helped to adopt. I have, of course, that interpretation of this agreement, and I know that arbitration judges and judges are also operating for it at all, and it is necessary to take into account what is really the spirit of the agreement and when the States have committed themselves to promoting sustainable trade, when they have undertaken to have high standards of environmental protection and consumer protection and so on, it is also necessary to count on that assessment if there is at last a case. The second is, of course, that none of the investment agreements and investment protection mechanisms we have concluded as part of agreements have yet brought any cases against Denmark. It is because we actually have quite high standards that we are actually quite good at having clear principles when we act and let other companies act in Denmark and with Denmark etc. The final point is, of course, that what really worries me very much, as I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, is that we are going to meet a period when we are seeing a definite step backwards for world trade. I think this is very much contrary to Danish interests and Danish interests.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314164117	In doing so, we would like to thank the rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314164125	Thank you. The Danish People's Party can support the ratification of the Free Trade Agreement between Canada and the EU. The basic point of view of the Danish People's Party is simple: Denmark, as a small, open economy with a modest home market as a general rule, benefits from concluding free trade agreements with other countries that respect common standards in relation to international cooperation. As far as Canada is concerned, the situation is that there can surely not be a country outside the European Union which is more like Denmark than Canada. The conclusion of a free trade agreement with Canada increases the market access of Danish companies to Canada and is therefore to be expected to increase exports to Canada. It will benefit Danish workers and the Danish economy as such. We have had to note that some groups on the left have tried to create a problematic picture of the free trade agreement as if it were a threat to climate, workers' rights and much more. However, it must be stated that the accession of the ten Eastern European countries to the European Union in 2004 represented a much greater challenge for workers' rights and the environment than the accession of a free trade agreement with Canada. As regards the investor-state dispute settlement mechanism, doubts have been raised as to whether accession to this mechanism would be a challenge to Danish sovereignty. In this connection, I would remind you of two things: Denmark has already signed international agreements which contain similar obligations, such as: international investment agreements, existing trade agreements, decisions of the International Court of Justice in The Hague and the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, and I would also like to say that not all of these are things that we are delighted with, but that is nevertheless the case. I should also like to remind you of the adoption by the Danish Parliament in connection with the question debate, F 21, on 14 May 2014, where a broad majority in the Danish Parliament, including the Danish People's Party, supported the view that free trade agreements can provide for rules on dispute settlement in the field of investment protection. The Danish People's Party is among the parties in the Danish Parliament who have asked the most questions about this free trade agreement. We have done so because we believe it is important to be fully aware of what the framework is for the agreement in which we come. For the Danish People's Party, it has been crucial that the Free Trade Agreement with Canada does not provide a general opportunity for workers from Canada to come to Denmark and work. As the Minister for Integration has indicated, this will not be possible beyond the rules already in force in Denmark today. The Danish People's Party is of the opinion that if the EU is to have any raison d'être at all, it is precisely in relation to the core task of trade, including, on behalf of Denmark, to conclude free trade agreements with countries outside the EU. A number of such agreements have already been concluded, most recently the agreement with Canada, as well as an agreement with Canada, among others. Japan is in the pipeline. Denmark has the fundamental benefit of being able to sell its goods internationally without customs barriers and restrictions. It does not necessarily have to be this way for every country. There may be countries that benefit from restrictions and tariff barriers, but Denmark is not such a country. Canada, with its 35 million inhabitants, is an interesting and relatively large market for Danish companies to improve market access. That is why we expect some of the free trade agreement with Canada, although the importance of the agreement is obviously not comparable to perhaps future agreements with Japan with 125 million inhabitants and the United States of America with well over 300 million inhabitants. However, we welcome the fact that the free trade agreement with Canada is gradually reaching its goal, and we will therefore vote in favour of ratification of the agreement at second reading in the Parliamentary Assembly.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314164546	Thank you. We have a permanent questionnaire panel from the Enhedslisten, since it is Mr. Søren Søndergaard. We're resuming the point. Then we reached Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314164644	Thank you. That is quite right, I would say to Mr Beazley. Kenneth Kristensen Berth that the trade agreement called the EU has created enormous problems with social dumping. But the big question is, of course, how to prevent this from happening in the agreement with Canada that is now being proposed. Because I have also read the answers with great interest, and I have read with great interest the text itself on key employees, etc. etc., which include: We must comply with the provisions on minimum wages which, as you know, we do not have in Denmark. Therefore, the crucial question is what kind of guarantee the Danish People's Party, as a support party, has been given, possibly in negotiations with the government, which the rest of us do not know about, that this does not lead to social dumping; that this does not lead to people being hired in areas in Denmark who receive a significantly lower salary than the one they would get if they worked on Danish terms?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314164747	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314164750	Then we got to the point after being interrupted by the moon people. Maybe some of them should run for parliament. Then they might have to dress differently. I don't know if you could offer that... now it goes on up there. Aren't they a little more normal dressed?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314164805	We are interrupting the item and must ask for you to leave the Chamber. It's not allowed to show banners here. I guess we'll get help to get you out of here right away. I'm gonna have to ask you to leave the room now. We are resuming the point with confidence that there will be a little stronger control at the entrance so that we will be free from these interruptions. We shall return to the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314164910	It might be appropriate to discuss the question of whether one should be punished for interrupting parliamentary meetings. It was perhaps an idea for someone in the Committee on Legal Affairs. I think it would be a good idea to repeat the question. There have been some interruptions in the past. So perhaps that would be allowed by the President.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314164928	The author shall be allowed to do so. Here you go, sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314164931	I take it in the very short form, namely that which states: What are the guarantees given to the Danish People's Party that this will not be a gap leading to social dumping in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314164942	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314164945	Well, I haven't received any guarantees from the government. But I have a very, very hard time imagining how that could happen. The fact is that there are some of the obligations to which other countries are subject, as a result of the fact that they are not in the happy situation of having a legal reservation which Denmark is not covered by. In other words, we will not have the same problems as we might have in other countries in relation to the question of migrant workers. It should also be borne in mind that this is a matter of key employees. It is not a question of giving direct access to the Danish labour market such as that which we, for example, have. in relation to the European Union, where you can just come in and claim to look for work in Denmark, stay here for three months and then go back home if you have not found any work, or continue to actually stay here. So what we are talking about in the European Union is actually something quite different from what it is about when we talk about the free trade agreement with Canada.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314165045	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314165053	I would just like to say that I do not understand that answer. What is covered is, after all, the key staff, it is then defined in different ways, including trainees. They are suppliers of contract-based services • suppliers of contract-based services • self-employed persons. I am sure that the Danish People's Party knows the concept of fake self-employed people, where people formally become self-employed, but really are not, or business travellers on short stays. It's hardly the last thing that's the problem. That is why I just have to ask again: what are the guarantees that have been given that we do not exactly have here a gap that can be exploited for social dumping in Denmark, and what will the Danish People's Party do if it turns out that we are facing such a gap?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314165137	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314165140	I simply do not have the imagination to imagine that we would be subjected to social dumping from Canada. In other words, we must remember that we are working together in the European Union, which means that a Romanian gypsy can take his Volvo and drive up here to Denmark and claim that he or she is looking for work while he or she is hutting his or her way into life. See, that I think we should deal with the real problems that Danish society faces, rather than trying to paint up some problems that I certainly do not think are real.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314165226	The next question is Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314165230	I believe that many of those who feel pressure on their pay and working conditions would have been happy if the answer from the Danish People's Party had been that they had a clear guarantee that their relationship would not deteriorate with the new free trade agreement, which the Danish People's Party apparently intends to vote in favour of. But that wasn't the reason I signed up. It's animal welfare. The Animal Protection Agency wrote in a press release a month ago that they clearly urged the Folketing not to adopt CETA without first ensuring that the agreement is improved in terms of animal welfare. Similarly, the President of the Eurogroup for Animals recently said that the agreement in its current form is a step backwards for animal welfare. I know that the Danish People's Party often prides itself on animal welfare. Can the Danish People's Party really vote in favour of anything that reduces animal welfare in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314165321	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314165324	No, it does not impair animal welfare in Denmark. It is possible that there are some animals in Canada that do not feel as well as they do in Denmark, but the fact is that we have a Danish agriculture which I would say is fairly competitive in relation to Canadian agriculture. I do not imagine that we will have a lot of Canadian agricultural products for Denmark. No, look, where Enhedslisten might be able to do us all a favor, and especially the animals, was then to intervene in relation to the Thai chickens lying around in the supermarkets of Bilka etc. They are imported into restaurants that use them; they come in ready-made dishes that you can buy in Danish Supermarket stores. Look, there we have a real animal welfare problem. So let us raise that debate instead, because I am convinced that the animals in Thailand, which we also import into Denmark and eat happily, have a much lower level than the animals in Canada.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314165423	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314165425	It's as if there's a picture in the answers from Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth: When we raise some question over here, he points over there and says: There is also a big problem over there, so we should not do anything about the problem that we are raising here. But I do not really think it is an excuse that there are problems with animal welfare in Danish food shops today, when I ask why the Danish People's Party is apparently in favour of what animal welfare organisations would call a retrograde step in animal welfare if adopted. So, can the Danish People's Party really vote for a step backwards for animal welfare, which is being warned against by competent organisations?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314165512	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314165513	I think we'll have to take it when it comes. I mean, I don't think it's gonna come across the border with Canadian agricultural products. Actually, I don't have the imagination to imagine that. And if one really wanted to ensure that Canadian agricultural products were not introduced into Denmark, then one would have reached the point where some sort of embargo or boycott of Canadian food was to be made, and I assume that the Enhedslisten is not ready for that. As I just say quietly, there are a number of other countries that should at least take the lead. I also do not know how they treat the animals in Namibia. There's plenty of Namibian beef in SuperBrugsen. So I also have an idea that it may not be bred this way under quite the conditions that we are now used to here in Denmark. So if that is what you want, then something about embargoing and boycotting and banning the entry of goods, I just think that there are a large number of countries that are joining before Canada does.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314165610	The next question is Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314165616	Thank you. After all, there has been a great deal of criticism about this free trade agreement from many consumer protection organisations, from several parts of the trade union movement around Europe and from environmental organisations. I would really like to ask: is there any of the criticisms that the Danish People's Party has made about it, or does one feel that one hundred percent of the answers that have come from the Foreign Minister and that I have also read through with great interest?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314165643	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314165644	I would say that it is clear that when you enter into agreements with other countries, you sometimes have to compromise. I do not want to say that we can easily isolate ourselves and simply trade with each other as in the Stone Age. We just can't do that. We can do that if we insist on it, but I do not think it is a good idea. As far as I am concerned, it is obvious that there are other consumer protection traditions in Denmark than in Canada, but I would also just like to say that when you look at Canada as a nation, I think it is a country that has relatively high standards, including in that area. I look forward to seeing how the alternative will then deal with future trade agreements with Singapore and Japan for that matter and other countries where it has to be said that standards do not match what we know from Canada at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314165753	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314165755	But what I find interesting here is not the agreement with Canada. If it were just an agreement with Canada and their political system, I would actually be reassured that we could make a good agreement on consumer protection, environmental standards and so on. But with this agreement, it is not Canada that is going to sue Denmark at the ICS, it is the companies that can do it. So it is outside the democratic system, it is companies that can suddenly sue States, and that is actually what I am reacting to. Because we do not know about other trade agreements with developed countries, as they call it, where we need this. And we are seeing more and more free trade agreements between other countries that are also developed and where there are no such dispute settlement mechanisms at all. Then the rapporteur could not imagine taking it out, and then we made a trade agreement with Canada on the real problems that exist and allowed the national courts, which are working well in Canada and the European Union, to deal with matters?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314165856	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314165858	At least that would be something completely new. Currently, we have investment protection agreements containing investor-state dispute settlement mechanisms with Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Bangladesh, Belarus, Bolivia, Chile, Egypt, Ethiopia, Philippines, Ghana, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, China, South Korea, Kuwait, Malaysia, Morocco, Mexico, Mongolia, Mozambique, Nicaragua, North Korea, Pakistan, Peru, Russia, Sri Lanka, South Africa, Tanzania, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine, Venezuela, Vietnam and Zimbabwe. So that would be something completely new.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314165932	There is a further brief comment, and that is from Mr Beazley. Holger K. Nielsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314165937	Thank you. It was just a question for the process of dealing with this bill. There is, of course, no consultation answer attached to the proposal here and, quite frankly, there has been a fairly limited public debate and perhaps also some frustration about it in some places. Will the Danish People's Party help us to have a further, thorough public debate between the first and second readings, in which civil society organisations and experts can also come in, so that we can clarify the ambiguities that might exist in this agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314170020	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314170024	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314170033	Then there are no more brief comments and we thank the rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen from the Left Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314170044	Thank you. Denmark's Liberal Party. Fourth Vice-President Hm, hm!). Back in October, we were also gathered in this Chamber to discuss the agreement between the European Union and Canada, which is also called CETA, and which the young people up there in the gallery were so enthusiastic that they had dressed up today. It was then the Alternative and Enhedslisten that discussed whether we should go in and block the provisional application of the CETA Agreement. There was Mr. Søren Søndergaard and I had such a rather cheerful exchange of words, where I could announce that I had intended to celebrate the conclusion of the CETA agreement with a good dinner with the family, and then I was also told that it was related to my wife having a birthday too, and we then discussed whether both Canadian and Danish flags should be on the table. But it didn't go so crazy, but it could be that we should take advantage of the opportunity now. I can also tell the House that we in the Committee on European Affairs have been in Canada precisely to learn about their perception of the plan, and we all returned home alive after eating their food for several days. But the most interesting thing was that we heard that the Canadians were concerned about developments in the United States, which is their sovereign biggest trading partner, and where the election of President Donald Trump and his protectionist policy with buy American etc. made them look for other markets. It was there that it emerged that Europe is a plan B for the Canadians, and therefore the figures that have been advanced can say that this will lead to an increase in exports just for Denmark of over 2 billion. kr. It is a good thing that Canada and Europe will become even bigger if they work together to a greater extent as a result of a more protectionist policy on the part of the United States. So it's an exciting deal, and it's a good day today. The CETA agreement is quite comprehensive and ambitious, it is progressive and it will benefit businesses, employees and consumers. It will make it both easier and cheaper for Danish companies to export their goods to Canada. Indeed, it is the case that the CETA agreement will abolish more than 99%. the customs duties which are now being imposed on trade between the United States and Canada. This is good news for Denmark. We are a small, open economy, and we are totally dependent on the world around us. Our prosperity, our welfare society is conditional on our dealing with other nations. And agreements such as the CETA Agreement break down barriers to a market. It opens up export opportunities for Danish companies, and it creates lots of jobs at home for the benefit of all of us. We have then also had the opportunity in the European Committee to discuss the CETA agreement and its consequences. There has been a public debate for several months and the agreement has been under way for several years. I do not think I am stepping on anyone by saying that, unfortunately, not all parties in the Folketing share my great enthusiasm for CETA and for free trade, but that is the way it is. Fortunately, we are different and we look at many things differently and so also on this question. So, although we may not be one hundred per cent in agreement today, I hope that, after all, we can all welcome the fact that we will have an agreement that will not lead to any reduction or change in the EU standards that we know today. This applies to standards for our health, social rights and consumer rights. Our current standards with the CETA Agreement will remain as they are today, and imports from Canada must, without exception, comply with all EU legislation. I shall conclude by quoting the French author and economist Frédéric Bastiat, who has said: if goods do not cross borders, then soldiers do. And even if we are not going to war with Canada in this way, it is therefore vital for me that we remember each other that the great purpose of free trade agreements such as CETA is not just customs duties and services. Free trade agreements are also very much about political alliances and enhanced cooperation, and when we bring countries closer together politically and commercially, this will also help us to maintain a peaceful and stable world order in the future. And in those words, we in the Left are happy to support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314170531	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314170540	I hardly dare to confide it to the rapporteur of the Left, but when I came home from Canada and went on to another to-do, I was sick for four days with serious vomit and worse. I do not want to blame Canada for this, but it is just to say that it may well have been something after all. But that is quite another thing I wanted to ask the rapporteur of the Left. After all, the rapporteur of the Left repeats what is good for the economy and predicts that it will be really good, but does the rapporteur not agree that the calculations are based on a model that requires full employment and a neutral distribution of income in the countries involved? Does the rapporteur not agree that this is what these calculations are based on, that is to say full employment, and that if you took some other calculations you would come up with a completely different result?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314170646	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314170648	First of all, I'd better not go into details about what may have caused Mr. Søren Søndergaard's stomach ache in Canada. It was a relatively peaceful trip, I would say, without the consumption of large quantities of either one or the other. The second question I simply cannot answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314170710	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314170712	That is fair enough, but I think it is interesting because there was a great deal of analysis here very recently in the International Journal of Political Economy, where some economists, based on the United Nations, are actually trying to figure out what the CETA consequences will be and where they take into account the fact that there is no full employment and where they take into account the fact that there is no even distribution of income, and where, in fact, their starting point is that, as a result of CETA in 2023, the share of capital in national income will increase in both Canada and the European Union, whereas the proportion of wages will decrease in return. This means that there is a clear class or social group distribution in the development that is going to take place. So I understand that if the rapporteur has not read that report, it is difficult to deal with it, but then I just hope for a commitment that we can get it through in committee and also get the comments of the Minister and perhaps the Finance Minister on the economic calculations.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314170836	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314170837	Despite Mr. So, Søren Søndergaard's very clear review and summary of that article, I was not fully involved. And you might say that if you want to have a discussion on such a subject another time, maybe it was a good idea to send the article in advance, so you had a chance to get up to the same towering level of knowledge as Mr. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314170901	The next question is Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314170905	Thank you. I therefore agree with the rapporteur that trade is good because trade can ensure development. I would really like to ask you about the great criticism which, after all, has also been of this agreement, of consumer protection organisations, of environmental organisations. I now know from the question hour earlier today that the Prime Minister, the rapporteur's party colleague, believes that there is ever the greenest government in Denmark. So how do the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party react to the massive criticism from environmental organisations that a free trade agreement is being drawn up, as is the case with this ICS mechanism, which, by the way, does not have to be there at all? Free trade agreements are being drawn up without these mechanisms and, in particular, what environmental organisations are really concerned about.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314170956	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314170958	Some of that concern was also addressed to us in Canada, and that is a concern, among other things. Greenpeace has come with us. I have to say that I am somewhat puzzled by that concern and am not sure that I fully understand it. I therefore believe that we are basing ourselves on some myths and misunderstandings. We have heard talk about Canadian chlorinated chicken in Danish supermarkets, and that is not the case. We have heard that GMOs would then be opened up, that is to say genetically modified organisms in beef and veal, etc. And hormone steaks, and what do I know? That is not the case. The standards we have on the environment, consumer protection, food safety, etc. in the EU, remain as they are. Where there are virtually identical standards, there may be a technical approximation of each other's standards. So my claim is that the opposition we have seen, which we demonstrated in the past in a festive way, unless some people were happy with the agreement, and I did not quite manage to find out, is based on misunderstandings, and it can be said that we have not been good enough to tell you about the agreement, but it is surprising that it is precisely this agreement with a highly developed and civilised society like Canada that gives that debate, bearing in mind that we have made quite a lot of free trade agreements ahead of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314171129	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314171131	The rapporteur actually said it very clearly: the standards, environmental standards that we have, remain as they are. After all, we are now in a period of new sustainability targets, with a climate agreement from COP21, which means that we need to set new standards, and that is where, not only Greenpeace, but a number of organisations raise the flag, and that is where we can get into really serious problems, because not Canada, but companies can sue states for the work that is absolutely necessary for us to meet our international standards. The rapporteur does not recognize that concern at all, or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314171205	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314171207	I think it is more a theoretical concern or a theoretical problem. We already have about 30 free trade agreements, where there is a system whereby an investor can bring proceedings against a State which it is believed has not complied with the provisions of an agreement. Denmark has never been sued by a company because of course Denmark complies with the agreements we enter into. The CETA agreement does not prevent us from drafting new legislation. This did not prevent the EU from setting new environmental standards, new consumer safety standards, etc. So in my head it is more a theoretical issue than a practical one.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314171253	Thank you. Then it's the other half of the Enhedslisten. Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314171300	Fortunately, we are more than two in the Enhedslisten, but of those who were present today it is quite correct half. I would actually like to follow up this discussion on the far-reaching protection of companies within the ICS mechanism. Basically, I would just like to hear from the rapporteur of the Left: what is wrong with Danish courts? What is it that means that Danish courts must be set aside and these special courts must be set up? What is the reason for this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314171334	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314171335	It's such a weird strawman question. Well, who said there's something wrong with Danish courts? Who said there's something wrong with Canadian courts? There isn't. But there is therefore a fairly firm practice for us to have, what should we say, a neutral, common ground to meet on. The alternative would be that a Canadian company would then have jurisdiction in a Canadian court, so that Danish companies as the only option would have to bring an action before a Canadian court and have to familiarize themselves with the administration of justice there etc. It is more reasonable, then, to have a common set of rules, so that both parties are equal. And the law, the agreement is the same, so whether it is a dispute settlement body in which both parties have appointed judges or it is a court in one country or another, they should very much like to achieve the same result. So it will also be more difficult if we then conclude an agreement with a country where we may not have exactly the same confidence in the courts as we have in Canadian courts as it is, because it is not really a question of Danish courts. We must then say that we can then point out that this is in fact a firm practice. It has nothing to do with your judicial system; it is a firm practice. And so have we in a lot of other agreements.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314171454	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314171456	I have not, in fact, said that there is anything wrong with Danish courts, on the contrary. That is also why I am so surprised that Danish and Canadian courts should not be quite good and competent to resolve disputes that could possibly be, including for multinational companies. But the fact is that the Left intends to vote in favour of a proposal setting up a special court. I would just like to hear from the rapporteur from the Left: does one have a concrete example that Danish companies have had problems in Canada, which has led to the idea that a special court should be set up? Have Danish companies had problems with Canadian courts?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314171541	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314171542	Well, that's a strange question. I'll tell you what. That, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen says, of course, that we from the Left should have said by the government that there is something wrong with Danish courts. Don't put words like that in your mouth. Well, that's not true. It is quite common practice that when you enter into free trade agreements, you have a common body to resolve these disputes. There are also a lot of agreements that contain an arbitration agreement. It is not because there is something wrong with the courts that you have an arbitration clause. Well, that's a weird way to set things up. I'll tell you what.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314171621	We are grateful to the rapporteur, and the next in the rapporteur's line is Mr Seligman. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314171632	When the European Parliament discussed the CETA agreement in February, employers' and business organisations called for a 'yes' vote. Outside, the world's largest trade union demonstrated, and IG Metall from Germany, who is the world's largest trade union, is not alone. The European Trade Union Confederation has also voiced its criticism. We saw exactly the same picture on the European Committee's trip to Canada. The employers' organizations were in favour while the employees' organizations were opposed, and that is not a coincidence. Because the agreement we are discussing here today is primarily for the benefit of participating interests. On the other hand, employees, consumers and the general public are at risk of getting a long nose. The fact is that you try to hide by writing in a lot of nice words about sustainability and employee rights. It was supposed to make this agreement modern, but unfortunately it's nothing but declarations of intent. Just take the claim that this agreement is being comforted by conventions of the International Labour Organisation, the ILO. Really? For example: For more than 25 years, the ILO has criticised Denmark for banning foreign sailors on Danish ships registered in the Danish International Ship Register to obtain Danish pay and working conditions. This is contrary to Articles 87 and 98 of the ILO Convention. And what has the government done about it? Nothing. And what has the ILO been able to do about the fact that the government has done nothing about it? Nothing. And will it be different with a CETA agreement? Not at all. Because is it the case that this modern and employee-friendly agreement obliges everyone to comply strictly with ILO conventions? Not at all. On the other hand, there is quite a different degree of firmness when it comes to safeguarding the interests of capital. Then an entirely independent legal system is created for the sole purpose of securing investment. One might ask the question, as has been done today: what is wrong with Danish courts or Canadian courts for that matter? But no, when it comes to protecting foreign investment, there must be some very special courts that are above Danish courts and that even, at least as a starting point, are also above the European Court of Justice. I also expect that the Foreign Minister will be able to clarify this in the course of the debate. How far will these ICS courts go to ensure that foreign investment gives the expected future profit, including when a country, for example, reaches? introduce legislation in the public interest? Actually, we don't know. The clues from previous agreements are frightening. For example: Canada is currently being sued for more than $100 million by an energy company under the North American free trade agreement NAFTA because Canadians have imposed a temporary ban on the extraction of shale gas in a nature reserve. And the wording of the text is too imprecise for anything like this to be attempted under the CETA agreement. That is why it is also nicely said, to put it nicely, when the Minister for Foreign Affairs writes in his written submission that the agreement • and I quote • is not considered to result in significant state financial expenditure. More soberly, it is when the Minister is, and that is then on page 181 of the proposal, I would say to those who have come to that admit that, and I quote again: "In relation to investment protection, it could have State financial consequences for Denmark in terms of payment of compensation if an investor were successful in a case against the EU or Denmark. Yeah, that's it. And if that happens, it is not the case that we can then just leave the CETA agreement and say that we now have some bad experiences and that we are going out of it. It has a phasing-out clause of 20 years, which means that next time and next time, and the next time again, the future majority of parliament will be bound to accept the supremacy of the ICS Court, regardless of why we think that the only right thing would be to give the Danish people an opportunity to decide, through a referendum, whether we should commit ourselves to something so crucial for many years to come.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314172139	We thank the rapporteur. No one has asked for brief comments. Next in line, sir. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314172152	Thank you. On behalf of our rapporteur, I should like to say that free trade is, in our view, the cornerstone of the prosperity that we in Denmark and Europe have built up over the last century. It is only through trade with other countries that we, as a small economy, can ensure continued growth and living standards, more jobs and, yes, in general, a richer society. As you know, it is not only economic growth that results from an open world society. It also creates a more peaceful world in which we work together rather than war against each other. Yes, it can be said that every time we talk about something, we get a little better understanding of each other's standards, etc. By closing our eyes to ourselves, we are opening up forces that want to divide us, driving us away from our common goal of more democracy and freedom. In general, we believe that cross-border trade is being increased by breaking down through agreements the barriers that prevent us from being able to trade freely with each other. The trade agreement between Canada and the European Union is precisely such an example which gives our companies better opportunities and opens up a quite large market for the benefit of Denmark as a whole. Canada is an important partner for Denmark and the rest of the EU. We are very much alike and this trade agreement will improve continued cooperation across the Atlantic. It will also help to ensure a more open world society working together on common objectives rather than fighting each other in an attempt to defend short-term national interests. The Liberal Alliance generally wants to work to break down trade barriers and thereby increase cross-border trade. We therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314172358	We thank the rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, and that's the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314172407	Thank you. To the west, Trump is turning towards international agreements, and to the east, Putin is rattling with the saber, and within Europe there is a break-up. More than ever before, the world needs strong international agreements that guarantee the framework of global sustainable development, with plus on all three bottom lines: economic, social and, above all, environmental. There is a need to control globalisation and trade so that it benefits everyone, and trade agreements are needed that contribute to achieving the 17 objectives of sustainable development and the Paris climate agreement. There is actually a need to do away with business as usual. Unfortunately, CETA is just not the answer to all our concerns; CETA is not a counterpart to Trump's xenophobic climate denial and protectionist line; CETA is neither the guarantor of peace, security nor sustainable development. No, CETA is business as usual, where the economic bottom line is far above social and environmental. With CETA, we have missed the opportunity to create a real gold standard for future trade agreements. CETA introduces a special court for foreign investors. We have never had that in trade agreements with what is called developed countries before, and we do not need it either. Do we not trust that Canadian courts treat our companies properly and do not trust our Canadian friends that European or Danish courts do the same? It is absurd that we should have parallel judicial systems in which multinational companies are granted special rights. When this system is rolled out in more and more agreements, we run the risk of increasing the price of the green conversion enormously. The future requires many initiatives and experiments to meet our commitments both for the COP21 agreement and for the 17 worldwide goals. Of course, not all companies benefit from this, and many will therefore oppose the development with beaks and claws, but why should we give them this tool? In fact, we have national courts which guarantee the same protection for all companies and which guarantee private ownership. CETA does indeed contain a number of chapters on sustainable development, on the environment and labour rights, and these are often highlighted as proof that CETA puts the environment and sustainable development first. But if you follow these rules, they are not really worth much. In fact, they are not even worth the paper on which they are written. If things go crazy, the most far-reaching consequence, in the event that a country violates the commitments in these chapters, is that a non-binding report can be drawn up. So, on the one hand, we give multinational companies far-reaching rights where they can demand billions of states, and on the other hand, a non-binding report must ensure sustainable development, and that is what we call the most ambitious trade agreement ever. At a time when populism is on the rise, when nationalist movements are flourishing and where fake news is raging, it may be tempting to rush through this agreement or to be lured by these somewhat bloated expectations of the positive effects of the agreement. If you look at the European Commission's website, you can actually read that CETA has only positive consequences. Everything from consumers and the environment to small and medium-sized enterprises simply wins on this agreement. There is not a word, not a word about possible negative consequences, despite the fact that there has been extreme and very broad criticism from trade unions, from environmental organisations and from consumer protection organisations, and I think that is actually deeply problematic and very, very unbalanced, because of course there are always the advantages and disadvantages of such a large agreement. That is why I look forward to having a thorough examination of what we are dealing with in committee, in which we can bring all the details to light and have an in-depth debate on precisely the advantages and disadvantages, so that the majority that I see here can also enter into this agreement with open eyes, also for the serious consequences we face in our eyes.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314172838	We thank the rapporteur. The next in line is Mrs Zenia Stampe, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314172846	We support the agreement. We think it is an example of a progressive free trade agreement; the most progressive which has yet to be seen. When progressive free trade is so important, it is of course because free trade, in other words free trade, is important. We believe that free trade helps to create prosperity, which in turn is a source of prosperity. We also believe that this is the way to peaceful relations between countries and continents. But it is clear that free trade must take place on free, equal and fair terms. That is why we think this agreement is so good, because it takes the lead in setting high standards. After all, it is incredibly important in a country such as Denmark and in a continent such as the European Union, which has some of the highest standards in the world, that if we want to free trade, expand our free trade area, free trade with other countries and other parts of the world, it is, of course, a question of ensuring that they are drawn up to a level that is equal, so that we do not always have high standards and therefore lose competitiveness in relation to the countries with which we wish to free trade. That is why we think this is a good agreement with Canada, but we also think that it shows the way forward. Now, of course, I have listened to the speeches that were made before mine, and also to those that were critical. It may well be that there are things that can be done even better, but I also think there is a lack of recognition that this is, after all, an attempt to do so. It is a huge agreement, and there are things that can be worried about, and there has been a great debate, and one of the results of that debate, or one of the reactions to that debate, is that the parties have joined forces, among other things. This interpretation document, in which it is emphasized that countries retain their right to regulate on the basis of public interests. It is very, very clear that we must continue to have the opportunity and the right to do so. That is why I believe that this is an agreement which can create growth because it can create increased free trade, trade, but which can also ensure that it is done on proper and equal terms, in which we maintain the high standards which characterise Denmark and which characterise the European Union and which we really want to influence the rest of the world towards. There's this instrument. I know that there are some people in the Chamber who are listening critically, but I also think that this should be reversed. There is great concern about what this could mean for our opportunities in Denmark. I'm not so worried. But I am also looking at the prospects in the world. It always feels good to have high standards and to be the good boy in class, but what really bats, if we are talking about the environment, climate and, as such, labour rights, is pulling everyone up; it is helping to drive a development in the right direction. There's this tool. You say yes to free trade, but on proper terms. It is a way of drawing the world in the right direction. Therefore, that very strong resistance from Enhedslisten and the Alternative amazes me. I sometimes think: there is a great deal of concern about what this will mean for us, but I do not believe that we should be so worried, but do the Enhedslisten and the Alternative not see the prospects of bringing the world up to a higher level at all? So, honestly, what does it really mean for the climate and the environment what we do in Denmark? It means something to our immediate environment, but if it is really going to mean something to the world globally, and that is something that I know is both parties' concern, then it is all about drawing everyone in the right direction. And there is free trade, but on equal terms and on fair terms with high standards, the way to go, if you have ambitions, not only for Denmark, but for the whole world.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314173315	There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314173320	Thank you. I fully share the rapporteur's view of what trade can do and create. I fully share the view of what can be achieved through international agreements and that this is not necessarily about us. My criticism of CETA is not about Denmark, it is actually about the free trade agreement, it is about the Canadians, it is about the French, it is about the Italians, it is about how we have the right to do something more about climate and environmental challenges, and we do not get that with this agreement. As I just went through in my rapporteur's speech, we can make non-binding reports that criticise if countries do not meet sustainability objectives and labour rights, but in this agreement it is not about states • no, we allow companies to press charges against states, and then it is the ICS Court that has to decide whether this is now within what can be done politically. It is not democratic, it is not between countries that we agree on it. If it were between countries, it would make sense. Is the rapporteur not at all concerned about this criticism, which it is not just the Enhedslisten and the Alternative, but the entire environmental organisations in Europe that are travelling?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314173434	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314173437	Well, of course I get worried when I hear what's being said, but I believe in the answers I've been given, and among other things. the document I have here, which is called the Common Interpreting Instrument on the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement (CETA) between Canada and the European Union and its Member States, which states very clearly that countries retain their right to implement legislation and regulation in the public interest, and that applies also to workers' rights, the environment and climate, etc. etc. So that's my answer, yes, of course I get worried. The debate that has taken place has worried me, but that is also why we have received an answer that we have received this interpretation document, in other words to make it absolutely clear what the starting point is. Then I would say that our study trip to Canada also showed me that it is not, of course, because we are dealing with a country which is speculating that now they and their companies must subjugate us by having lower standards. On the contrary, the agreement states that Canada and the EU are pursuing higher standards, among others. in the field of the environment. It is a common goal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314173546	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314173549	What I find so annoying is getting shot in your shoes time and time again when you criticize this, that it's because you're afraid of Canada. I'm not afraid of Canada. I am well aware of Trudeau's policy in the area of climate and the environment too, and I applaud that too. But it is not Canada that has the opportunity to sue European countries in the ICS Tribunal. It is the multinational companies, it is all the American companies that make subsidiaries in Canada. These are the ones we give the right to go in and overrule our democratic right to do this. Then we have some interpretation guidelines, but it is not the countries, but the companies that we agree with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314173626	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314173627	Yes, but it is above all Canadian companies that are used to operating in Canadian legislation that is the issue. I cannot imagine them, when they have to comply with high standards in Canada, thinking: now we have to enter the European market, so now we are all dropping those high standards because we can go to the ICS and have our case dealt with there. I don't believe that. In relation to the concern that American companies are going to use Canada as a bridgehead into the EU, we asked about it several times in Canada, and I just want to say that this is not a concern that is particularly great in Canada; it is not something that American multinationals are supposed to use. Moreover, there is also a requirement for one's headquarters to be in Canada.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314173711	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314173717	There's an old saying that the road to hell is paved with golden promises. And I would say whether an agreement is progressive or not is not about what it writes about itself, but it is about what means of power it equips different stakeholders to implement it. What is the reason why a special court has not been set up in which employees could ensure that all the rights set out in this agreement are actually implemented? What is the reason why there is no special court in which a judgment can be given requiring the implementation of all the environmental standards that say that we must work as a target? There's, like, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist said nothing. It is a completely one-sided division. The capital, the business interests have their courts, the rest are declarations of intent. It is an imbalance and I simply cannot understand how one can consider it to be progressive.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314173811	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314173814	What I do not understand here is that we are politicians, it is we who decide whether we want to give high weight to the environment or to workers' rights. That is what the agreement allows us to do. It allows us to regulate. So if you ask who is going to fight the cause of the environment and who is going to fight for the workers, then the answer is: it is us. This is it. That is why we are making legislation, and that is what the agreement gives us the opportunity to do. After all, we do not need a court to allow us to say that we should. It's our decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314173846	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314173849	Yes, but the possibility of regulating is, of course, subject to a market in which, if there is free access to something that has worse standards, it also, of course, affects our ability to regulate. We hear this time and again, not least from the government parties. We cannot do one thing, we cannot do the other, because if we do that, we will not be able to compete. That is what we are seeing about the European Union, and that is what it is all about. I do not know whether the Canadian shipowners are fully aware of the tax subsidy that the Danish Parliament has provided Danish shipowners with through DIS. It is therefore unfair competition which could affect Canadian shipowners and hence Canadian seamen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314173930	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314173932	But then we must hope that there is strong cooperation between trade unions, for example. can bring it to the attention of Canadian shipowners. It was the same question, and Mr. Søren Søndergaard also, I asked each time we were visiting, namely: Are there any standards? Can we count on that? Is that part of the deal? It is just important that what is the agreement is that it is our decision what standards we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314174009	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314174012	I heard the Radical Left rapporteur say that it is we who regulate the environment and workers' rights. Well, what's it like with the international markets and stuff like that? Is it not also for politicians to regulate it? Why is there a difference? I think that's weird. Same now. The rapporteur says that as far as the DIS rules are concerned, which have been drawn up in this Parliament, we must hope that there is a trade union movement that can inform the Canadians about them. Well, damn it, the Danish trade union movement has been fighting for almost the entire period of my adulthood against the DIS rules, as this Parliament has done.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314174053	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314174056	I just don't quite understand what the question is, if I'm to be honest. Now there's also two parts of this deal. I'm sorry, I didn't quite understand that. But if I'm gonna go over it a little bit, I'm gonna say that I think it's interesting. There are two perspectives. There is, of course, when Danish companies settle in Canada, and there we have an interest in protecting them too, if they choose to invest, making large investments in coming to Canada. That is why we have agreed that there is such a court-like body, and that is in particular for the agreement. But perhaps the concern lies in whether the goods coming to Denmark are produced within the same standards, or is it a worker, or what is it? Yes, I'm sorry, I'm asking, but it may be that the questioner can tell me what the concern really was, instead of standing here shooting blindly.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314174154	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314174156	Yes, because that is what the questioner is called. It is, of course, a question of these trade agreements taking account of large capital. However, international courts are created in a lack of confidence that countries can regulate it, in the absence of confidence in political systems. It's not like with TTIP. It is not, of course, a question of the banana republics making agreements in this case. These countries, as by the way, Mr. Poul Nyrup Rasmussen has emphasized tremendously, does not need a supranational court or decision-making body.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314174234	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314174235	Okay, I just think I'm supposed to think of it as a discussion instead of a question. I think that's a little better. But if the criticism is about this court-like body, then the argument is precisely to find a body in which both parties have full confidence, and of course we also have confidence in the Canadian judicial system, but it could be that in future we will enter into similar agreements with other countries whose legal systems we do not have the same confidence in. That is why this is a model, not only for Canada and the European Union, but also for any other future trade agreements, and that is where we have an interest in ensuring that Danish companies are properly treated.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314174317	Then it's mr. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314174319	Thank you. I took the floor because the radical rapporteur said that we in Parliament are responsible for adopting legislation guaranteeing workers' rights, consumer rights, environmental rights, and I fully agree that this is a responsibility that we have and that the electorate has given us. But that's exactly why I'm worried about CETA. I am worried about, as many others are, and as we, among others, are. has been approached by the consumer organisation THINK that, for example, when we adopt better consumer legislation that protects consumers from one form or another of poisons in food, then we can risk a multinational company going to a special court and bringing proceedings against Denmark, and we can be convicted and prevented from adopting this legislation. It's not democratic. That's a huge problem. That is something that can hamper the possibility of pursuing progressive policies. So what is the progressive in exactly the ICS mechanism, which is part of this CETA agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314174424	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314174425	I simply cannot understand why such a court should forbid us to do so. Then I have to ask you back: Why would they do that? Moreover, when you have an agreement here, where it is very clear that imported goods, suppliers and services, etc. comply with national requirements, including rules and regulations, etc.; etc., what kind of situation is one imagined? It might be good for the debate that the critics also became a tiny bit more concrete. It is difficult to give answers when the questions are also very speculative and unclear. So what is it that may be an example of this, but a slightly more concrete example that should prevent us from making national legislation when we even have a document that says quite clearly that both parties, the European Union and Canada, believe that national authorities and the European Union should, of course, be allowed to regulate and set standards and raise standards?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314174527	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314174528	Thank you. There is no need to use thought examples. The problem is that this is something we see in so many other agreements that have similar mechanisms. Similar investment protection rights for multinational companies, for example, are being used specifically to sue Australia when trying to put warnings on their cigarette brands by US manufacturer Philip Morris. Canada has experienced this in a large number of cases when they entered into the NAFTA agreement with the United States, because there are plenty of American companies that have investments in Canada, just as there are plenty of Canadian or for that matter American companies that through Canada can start to get investment in Denmark and therefore can have evidence to sue. So I am worried about the very concrete background.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314174616	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314174618	Well, I just cannot see in the agreement that has been reached that one could rightly as a company go in and complain that a higher standard had been set in some areas. What you are protecting companies against is only if there is a national government speculating on making legislation that discriminates precisely against that company, because you may not think it is so nice that there is a foreign company that is in a market. But this is not really about when, in general, there are higher criteria that apply equally to all companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314174653	Then we would like to thank Mrs Zenia Stampe and move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Zenia Stampe. Holger K. Nielsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314174713	I think that Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen had some real considerations about the risk that we will face such a protectionist time after Donald Trump has arrived. And we also have to have it in our minds when we discuss these things. Personally, I and the SF agree that free trade is important. We agree that it is important to abolish customs barriers and to abolish technical barriers to trade. We believe that there are great advantages politically and economically in countries and businesses acting more with each other. So this should just be on the flat hand. Well, it's not after all. A criticism has come up in public, which I believe has taken many people by surprise, including in the Danish Government and elsewhere. This is a little linked to the fact that this is part of a context in which globalisation has become a major issue. Where, up to now, there has been such rather unconscious support for any form of globalisation, there has been such a more globalisation-critical approach to many things where it is said that globalisation must also be able to bring benefits to those people who may be affected by it today. That is what lies behind the populists' march in various parts of the world, including the American elections. So more attention has been paid to the fact that, on the one hand, we must be in favour of greater economic co-operation and that globalisation is developing, I am in favour of that, but, on the other hand, we must address the social and environmental issues which are also a consequence of globalisation. That's where this really comes into that kind of more general discussion. I believe that we must be careful to make such a free trade agreement, if I may say so, both the cause of the many problems we face and that which can solve the problems. So trade agreements are not that important. That is why I would say that environmental problems are not resolved by a trade agreement. Nor do I believe that it necessarily means the opposite, as well as that our economic situation should be resolved. There are such very imaginative calculations of how much economic progress this will bring. In my opinion, it is very, very speculative calculations that are there. No one knows that in this world. However, we are in favour of large parts of this and believe that we should also discuss it in a soiled way. Where we have the problem is in terms of the investment protection part. So this is, I must say, a problem in relation to a democracy that must be able to function properly. The point here is, of course, that large companies can bring legal proceedings against a State if they think that a state's legislation is going to cross them, or rather, if they think that the return on the capital they have invested is being affected by certain legislation. That will often be the case. That is to say, you are in a fantastic grey area here, in terms of what it can have with consequences. We cannot avoid grey areas; that is the way life is, because we cannot foresee everything that is clear, but I still think that this is so serious with regard to our democracy that it must call for the greatest criticism. After all, it is both about the matters that can come, but so important that, if I may say so, it will mean that many governments and many parliamentary majority, before they adopt legislation, will go in and assess whether it can provide them with compensation problems afterwards. What will that mean? That is to say, it helps to impose restraint on oneself and does not want to implement a particular piece of legislation which one might otherwise appear to be progressive, because it is going to conflict with the interests which some large companies can take care of by going to this ICS court. We think this is a democratic problem and that is why we cannot support it here. However, we think it is important for us to have a proper discussion, and that is why we are also calling for a thorough discussion between the first and second readings, including public opinion, of this, because we need to bring the debate down to a low level and find out what the advantages and disadvantages are and what the consequences are here and there.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314175237	There is just one brief comment, I see, from Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314175242	It is not because I want to stall people in this Chamber. I have very much respect for Mr. Holger K. Nielsen's and SF's nuanced views on this issue and on what is being said. I think the rapporteur is absolutely right in saying that we need a nuanced debate. The same applies to some of the existing trade agreements. The NAFTA agreement is repeatedly mentioned as a horror example of how it has undermined American industrial production. The truth is that the fall in American industrial production is actually due to a large number of other things than exactly the NAFTA agreement. I'd like to ask Mr. Holger K. Nielsen about something else. This applies to his criticism of the whole ICS mechanism for being very undemocratic and so on. and to steer around our democratic rule of law. Will Mr. Holger K. Nielsen does not agree with me that these are quite different issues, but that the mechanism is still very similar to that which prevails, every time we have otherwise signed treaties or conventions, or perhaps the European Court of Human Rights, for example, where we have never formally surrendered sovereignty to a court to change the state of law in our society? Is it not the same when we are now several states that have come together to find a common basis that we need to lay down rules according to?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314175406	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314175408	No, I don't think so. What is special here is that private companies can go in and bring an action against a state. It's the special thing here. The large multinationals are given special powers here to go in and bring legal proceedings if they are dissatisfied with the law of a state. That's where I think you have the biggest problem. You must always have some dispute resolution mechanisms. That's what you have in every deal. That's clear enough. But the problem is here that you have a system that is outside the ordinary legal system, where some large companies have some special advantages. I don't think that's fair. It is not democratic in my view.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314175454	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314175457	I understand. I think there is every reason to be always sceptical about the way many multinational companies act. I'm just trying to ask if this is especially in the new model of the dispute settlement mechanism. Is it so dangerous when we know that there is greater openness, there is transparency, there is an appeal and so on, when it comes to everyone? After all, it is not just a right that applies to multinational companies. This also applies to the small manufacturer of small gadgets who might want to sell them to the Canadians. Is it not good that there is this mechanism which can protect investment if a state is going to discriminate?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314175537	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314175539	No, that's what I don't understand. I understand if there are very backward societies where there is absolutely no confidence in their legal systems. Then I understand that it may be relevant there. That is not the case here. I do not think this is relevant to the European Union and Canada, where we have well-developed legal systems. I find it hard to see the necessity of this. Many others have pointed out why we need to bring this. This also applies to the discussion of the US TTIP agreement. Why do we have to bring this? It's a completely different context from where you use this instrument.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314175620	Thank you, sir. Holger K. Nielsen. There are no more brief comments. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314175637	We support the free trade agreement with Canada. Overall, we believe that free trade is a good thing. Free trade is the basis for a great deal of our prosperity in the West and in Denmark. Especially for a country such as Denmark, which is so small, it is crucial that we can trade with others. The creation of a larger free trade area, which makes it easier for our companies to sell their goods, is absolutely a good thing for Danish prosperity. I have been a little surprised that this free trade agreement has received so much attention, especially from the left. I think that is also reflected in today's debate. You can see that the left wing is very active. I have the impression that there are many people in the back of the left who are interested in this matter. I don't know why that interest has become so great. We have made many free trade agreements in the past without there having been so much controversy about it. The mechanisms in them are essentially the same. It is clear that there are disadvantages in concluding agreements with other countries. Every time you enter into an agreement, you narrow down your scope of action to do exactly what you want. It is almost the definition of an agreement, namely that you commit to behaving in a certain way and disclaim the possibility of introducing certain rules and other actions against companies in this case. That's the way it is when you make deals. Some would call it a loss of sovereignty, but it is quite normal when you enter into agreements that it naturally narrows your business space. Here, of course, the left has a point to make that it is not quite as free as before the conclusion of the free trade agreement itself to lay down its legislation on working conditions and workers' rights, etc. in relation to the companies that are now being granted access to European markets. It is, of course, because you cannot have companies suddenly change their terms and, in practice, introduce rules which exclude Canadian companies from entering the market when you have such a free trade agreement. It is, of course, a narrowing of our business space as a country. But I think it is important to emphasise here that this is Canada, which is a very high civilised country, which is very similar to Denmark. It is very liberal, has very high standards in some of the areas of concern to the left: labour rights, environmental legislation, etc. If it had been an agreement with Saudi Arabia or China, it would have been a completely different matter. Then those issues would have been much more relevant. There is no particular reason to believe that Canada will withdraw workers' rights, the environment, etc. to a lower level than what we have in Europe. I also know that the left is very enthusiastic about the Canadian Prime Minister. He's the one who's running around talking a lot about accepting refugees, but doesn't. I also thought that there was a great deal of confidence that a country with such a Prime Minister would not want to undermine the things that the Left is very concerned about. That's why we're not so worried about this free trade agreement. Especially when it is taken into account that many free trade agreements have been made before, we do not think this is a very big, crucial step. We believe that this is a large and important market that Danish companies are allowed to enter into, and we are pleased about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314180007	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314180011	Thank you. If you peel away the controversy, there were actually a number of quite clear answers in the rapporteur's speech, namely that this would prevent us from taking a number of measures in the field of health and safety, for example. The rapporteur made a little the same mistake, and I do not know whether it is just the words you choke on, as others say. I do not think Canada will sue Denmark, but it is not about Canada. After all, it is about companies that can sue, and that is what concerns our hinterland and concerns me. It is not an agreement between countries where Canada can come and say that hey, you are not living up to the sustainability targets we have set because there we can make such a non-binding report. No, it is companies which, if we go in and do some new environmental measures, can go in and sue the countries as we have seen in Canada, especially in connection with the NAFTA agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314180106	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314180107	I am quite sure that I did not say what I was quoted here, i.e. that Canada would not sue Europe or Denmark. I don't think I mentioned that at all. What I said was that I do not believe that Canada will bring down standards. That is what is important here. When we make agreements with Canada, I have no impression that Canadians are interested in achieving lower standards in the environment and in the area of workers' rights and the like. That is why I do not think that this fear that some agreements will then be concluded which set very low standards is quite great, at least not with us.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314180142	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314180144	But it's not the Canadians. We're talking about companies getting these opportunities. Because where you can do something, if you get mad that there is a country raising an environmental standard, lifting an employee's right, etc., is like a company going through the ICS and filing a lawsuit. It is precisely not the nations who can do it. That is why it is not Canada that is going to hold us back or put our workers' rights under pressure, no, it may be international companies that do so. That is precisely what worries us.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314180216	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314180217	Well, that situation only arises if we have an agreement to keep standards to a certain level, because then it is that there may be some situations where companies can go in and sue. And to that I say that I don't think that level is going to be low. I think it will be high when it comes to a country like Canada.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314180234	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314180236	Thank you. I would like to thank you for the very honest talk about these things. After all, it is the multinationals that are given greater freedoms and greater rights and more opportunities to defend themselves, and the ordinary people and parliaments are given fewer freedoms. Mr. Rasmus Jarlov is also directly saying that the working environment will be more difficult to regulate in the future. Well, that's clear talk, then we know what it's all about. But to be puzzled that such an agreement is beginning to interest me, I do not understand. I thought it was about creating the greatest possible interest in what we were doing here, even when we were doing the complicated things. It is no longer a question of abolishing customs duties or removing barriers to trade. That is not the big problem anymore, it is not the main content of such agreements as these. That is something quite different, it is to give freedom to large-scale capital concentrations. And that is why interest is growing, because now you can see the great danger of it. In other words, an old-fashioned free trade agreement, where a little more and less could be done, did not affect the whole of society. These deals do.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314180340	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314180342	It is not because I think it should be criticised that there is a great deal of interest in this free trade agreement, which we must almost welcome. Whatever this is about, it is a good thing that people are committed to the political decisions that are being taken, even when they are EU agreements and when they are free trade agreements. I just noticed that it was at least thought that it is funny what it is sometimes for some topics that suddenly get a very great deal of attention. And here it has become a bit the new fashion that you pay close attention to these free trade agreements, not so much has been done before. I also recognise that these may be the reasons why free trade agreements have become more complicated. It is not just a question of removing tariff barriers; it is also a question of agreeing on the rules of the game which standards must be introduced against companies. And, of course, it is more comprehensive than it has been in the past, I agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314180432	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314180433	It has puzzled me that a number of people have said that it was just about customs and things like that. There are virtually no tariff barriers anymore around. I would like to ask the rapporteur, sir. Rasmus Jarlov, if he could imagine a world where global agreements began on a high standard and great freedom, so that people could avoid being killed at their workplace or get sick at their workplace. There are still 60 000 Danes who get sick at their workplace, and there are very many Canadians who get sick at their workplace. What if that's what we cared about, and the multinationals themselves let their problems be dealt with if they were in a bit of a mess?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314180513	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314180514	I guess you can imagine that could happen, for example. through the European Union, that is to say, that standards of this kind were laid down, and perhaps also through free trade agreements, where agreements are made that companies should not undercut each other in those areas. I guess that's the idea of what's being done here. When you agree to tie one another up, that applies both up and down in particular. So I guess that's what's really going on here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314180541	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Jarlov. No one else has asked for brief comments. Then it's the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314180552	I would like to start by thanking you for a good debate • more debate than some might have expected, and there were also entertaining external items along the way. What more can you almost ask for? I see the debate as such that, after all, there is broad support in the Folketing for Denmark's ratification of the economic and trade agreement with Canada, and I think that is a good thing, because we are faced with an election: do we meet the scepticism and fears of globalisation and free trade, with open forehead, calm and good arguments, or do we choose instead a course where we slowly close ourselves and build up trade walls towards the rest of the world? The answer is important, and it is particularly important for a small country like Denmark, which is a small open economy where we have always made a living trading with the outside world. We will have problems when the EU's trade policy and thus Denmark's ability to maintain and conquer new export markets are challenged, because at the same time the Danish economy and not least the source of prosperity that we have built up in the competitive export industries for decades. In fact, when we meet those who look at free trade with scepticism, it is also important to remember to share the good experiences, because Danish society in general benefits greatly from the EU's and thus Denmark's free trade agreements. This is true, for example. the free trade agreement that we have with South Korea, which has contributed in five years to increasing Danish exports of goods by 64 per cent. A more open trade with Canada could also create new opportunities for Denmark. Danish companies stand at a potential gain in terms of increased exports of up to 2.2 billion. kr. Every year, and this is, therefore, according to the Foreign Ministry's projections of the European Commission's expectations of the benefits of the agreement. That's good. CETA is also expected to contribute positively to real wage developments and to promote growth and job creation in the export sector for the benefit of Denmark's economy. At the same time, CETA addresses a number of the concerns expressed in relation to the EU's Free Trade Agenda. Among other things: It is clear that the agreement does not change the right of the EU or the Member States to regulate, and with CETA we will have a reformed and more modern model of investment protection. In addition, the sustainability provisions of CETA support that the increased trade does not take place at the expense of environmental and labour rights standards. On the contrary, CETA is helping to raise the global level of sustainability standards, which in the long term we hope will also form the basis for future trade agreements with other countries which, unlike a highly developed country like Canada, may not have the same desire for high environmental and consumer standards. In conclusion, therefore, I would like to thank the rapporteurs once again for a good and constructive debate and, overall, for their sympathetic reception.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314180906	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314180911	Now I am not going to repeat my rapporteur's speech, but in relation to all that about the economics, I propose that we take it in committee because there is a need to look at all the studies that have been carried out. And since the Secretary of State is making so much of it, there is, of course, an additional need to do so towards second reading. So we can do that there. However, I have a specific question for the Foreign Minister, and it is about the location of the European Court of Justice. Clearly, with this investment court system, ICS, Danish courts have been pushed aside. In other words, employees have no opportunity to appeal, consumers have no opportunity to appeal, business has the opportunity to appeal, Danish courts have been pushed aside. But has the European Court of Justice also been pushed aside? Do these investment courts stand before the European Court of Justice? That is my specific question to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314181007	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314181009	After all, the mechanism that has been set up has been set up to ensure that companies cannot be discriminated against on the basis of protectionist measures taken by individual states. That is what is, in fact, the determining factor in the element that has been pulled in. That is also what Article 8.9 says, and I now read out to those who may not have read it about investment protection: "As far as this chapter is concerned, the parties reaffirm their right to regulate within their territory in order to achieve legitimate political objectives, such as the protection of public health, safety, the environment or public morality, social or consumer protection and the promotion and protection of cultural diversity. ▪ I hardly think that can be said more precisely. It is a mechanism which is basically just set up to ensure that you are not as a company or a Danish company, for example.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314181115	Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314181117	What it says is that companies must not be subjected to unfair conditions. And who, then, should interpret what is unreasonable? It is not the Folketing or the Canadian Parliament; it is these courts that are above the Danish courts. Then I will just say to the Foreign Minister: if the Foreign Minister wants to prevent me from going up and having another rapporteur's speech and a third and a fourth and a fifth rapporteur's speech, then I think the Foreign Minister should answer my question. Is this system of courts, which is thus above the Danish courts, also above the European Court of Justice, or is it subject to the European Court of Justice?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314181203	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314181204	This mechanism is based on the regulations that exist. And that's the answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314181209	Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314181211	I'm just gonna have to get back to where mr. Søren Søndergaard escaped because I actually thought it was a non-answer from the Foreign Minister. It is fine to be able to say: I cannot answer it; I have to find the answer and send it to the rapporteurs so they have the answer. But is the ICS Tribunal above the European Court of Justice, or is it subject to the European Court of Justice? That is one question. The second question is precisely Article 8.9.1. Here it is precisely up to the ICS to assess whether the legislation being introduced is reasonable. So where is it that we have democratic control of it so that it is not just a court that suddenly stands above everything else that can judge whether it is reasonable? Can the Minister point that out?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314181300	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314181301	I think I have answered the question. But basically, this debate is only about one thing, and it's trying to see if you can find a hair in the soup or a needle in a haystack or something else. What we are trying to avoid in this debate today is whether it is for the benefit of us to open up more free trade. There's a yes answer. It is as if the left, including the alternative, every time we talk about free trade, says that they want to do so in principle, but when it comes down to it, and seriously, and when we are about to sign it, they will never be in it. Then you always find some excuse to quit. Then there is always something in the way that makes it probably not possible, how are we going to do it, etc. But you have to choose. Here, regulation of this area has been made in such a way as to ensure that it is not possible, as a state, to go in and do something that discriminates against fair and equal competition and then it is even here built in and clarified, which I have just read out, that it is quite regular and in order to take account of consumers, protect them, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314181412	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314181413	It may be that the Minister thinks he has replied. I do not think there has been any response to the level of the European Court of Justice. Then the Minister can stand and polemicise over it and over how we always say no to everything, but I know that the alternative has existed for just over three years, and I do not recall that we have discussed many other free trade agreements. But again, does the Minister really believe that we have the certainty in those articles when it is precisely up to an ICS tribunal to decide whether or not our legislation is discriminatory? Isn't the Minister worried that it's there? So it may be that you think there are so many pluses that you are willing to give it up, but does the Minister recognise that criticism?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314181452	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314181455	I believe that the ICS is even a step forward in relation to the regulatory mechanisms we have known so far. In addition, it may also surprise me that the LO will go in and back up this agreement if it is the case that that concern should be there, but they do indeed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314181515	Then it's mr. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314181518	Thank you. So, Minister, can we not get an answer to the question? Can it really be true that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is standing here and recommending that the Folketing adopt an agreement without knowing what is the highest body? Is the European Court of Justice or this ICS mechanism the highest authority? It should be the case that we could get a clear answer when the Foreign Minister stands and recommends that we join Denmark in such a far-reaching agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314181551	A minister is not called Mr, Mrs or dear. You just use the name of the minister. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314181557	I mean, like I said, I think I've answered that. This body is there to give companies the opportunity to appeal in a situation in which they may find themselves in a position where they believe they are condemned. I also believe that I have answered the question. However, it has also been clarified and I have even read from the article that legislative authorities have the right to take into account what they want, for example. in relation to consumer protection.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314181635	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314181638	So, we know that there is no appeal to Danish courts. Nor can the Folketing appeal against a judgment or take up the matter again. But can you appeal to the European Court of Justice once you have settled your case at the ICS body, which the Minister thinks we should support Denmark joining us? I think that is a very relevant question, which I honestly expect the Minister to be able to answer when he recommends the Folketing to join an agreement such as this one. It's pretty banal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314181714	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314181715	Yes, it is so trivial that I have now answered it three times.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314181720	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314181724	I am not going to ask that kind of question anymore when the Minister will not reply. Well, sir. Rasmus Jarlov was then honest and could explain to us that yes, there will be less scope for regulation, for example. in the field of health and safety at work. That's honest and honest. But here the minister is talking around and thinks it's really good for all people to make such a deal here and that there's just one hair in the soup. You could almost say that if there's a hair in the soup, go and pull it out so we can get a proper right out of it. And it could be that the ICS-tribunal was a significant hair in the soup in this context. Nobody's talking about building trade walls. It has nothing to do with it. The new situation is precisely that the multinationals are so large and strong that they are stronger than any of the states. That is why it is important not only to talk about free trade but also about fair trade. Because what we are talking about here is regulating the multinationals and not giving them greater freedoms so that they can be stronger vis-à-vis the states. I cannot understand why the Minister cannot understand that this is a serious problem for any democratic society.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314181830	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314181831	Well, this time it seems as if the questioner has not read what it says. It has been made clear what I also read out that it is a perfectly legitimate political objective for national legislation to ensure the protection of public health and safety, the environment and public morality, social and consumer protection and the promotion of the protection of cultural diversity. Well, I'd almost say, my soul, what more do you want? What will fight about here is to see if it can be done to get a free trade agreement in place, which will create increased growth in Denmark and increased exports. Because we are good in Denmark, and this way we have an opportunity to get in and help compete on equal terms on the Canadian market. That is good, and it is also good for Danish workers.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314181933	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314181935	In my whole life, it has been the case that the workplace after the workplace has disappeared, at least in the professions I have had. So if you just say that it is good to make more trade and that jobs can be elsewhere, then I think I have a healthy scepticism. Try and think about social dumping and stuff like that. This instrument could be removed if you believed that it was no problem for ordinary workers. It is based on an ordinary legal system outside democratic systems. That's the problem, sir. Minister. Doesn't the Minister see it at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314182018	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314182021	The answer is no.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314182024	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the Minister. I understand that there is a desire for a second round, at least on the part of a rapporteur, Mr President. Søren Søndergaard. I would point out that, in the second instance, speaking time is three minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314182038	Well, I announced I'd go back up if I didn't get an answer. After all, there has been no answer to the question of whether ICS is subject to the European Court of Justice or not. Can you appeal to the European Court of Justice? One cannot appeal to the Danish judicial system, but can one appeal to the European Court of Justice? There was no answer to that. But I understood from the Minister that there is an answer, because the Minister said several times that he had answered. There is an answer, and I would just like to ask the Minister to pass it on. Because I assume that we are in complete agreement on this and also that whoever is silent agrees that it would be a strange practice for us in this Parliament to start to adopt legislation or to enter into an agreement where we do not know who is the highest authority. That is why it is an absolutely crucial question before we can vote on it here, to clarify whether it is the ICS that is the highest authority and then away with the European Court of Justice and away with Danish courts or whether it is possible to appeal to the European Court of Justice. The minister said the minister had an answer to that. The Minister would not say this here from Parliament's platform, and I would just ask the Minister to forward the reply to the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314182218	Thank you, sir. Søren Søndergaard. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on European Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314182233	The debate is open. Sir. Orla Sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314182257	Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the statement on selected international organisations. It originally stated here that it was about Nordic cooperation, the OSCE, the Baltic Sea Council and the Council of Europe. Now we have to do without Nordic co-operation in today's debate, and hopefully we will come back to that in another way and in a good way. The report is clearly divided into the individual organisations and their activities, which is quite all right. But if you look at the background where the organisations and Denmark are going to work, then there is surely a common backdrop that we must take into account in the assessment of their work and purpose. The backdrop is that we are still in a situation where uncertainty about the operation of the new American administration still exists. Will the United States really isolate itself, as some of the President's statements suggest? An American isolation and withdrawal from the role of great power with interests and forces to influence attacks on world peace and global order, in which democracy, human rights, freedom of the media, freedom of expression and equality are natural pillars, will have a decisive impact on the global situation. Whatever the case, an American withdrawal will change the world order we know and the principles on which the free world rests. The backdrop is also Russia's role. Will Russia continue to pursue a policy that, as stated in the statement, increases security policy tensions and leads to democratic backward steps. When it comes to Europe, it seems that it is becoming more and more difficult to act together after Brexit, and there are other examples of the lack of desire to work together. Finally, we face a global challenge: many people, as a result of war, hunger and instability, break up from their home countries and seek alternatives. In our view, this backdrop is appropriate to keep in mind in the discussion about Denmark's role and opportunities in the international organisations that we have on the agenda today. Let me first say a few words about the OSCE. It is a relatively new player on the field, which was initiated in the 1970s and has been renewed in the light of the fact that the Wall was being wound up in Europe in the 1990s. Despite the relatively short history, the concrete reality of this cooperation is perhaps even more relevant. Here the framework is to deal with and prevent aggression between states and to help the international community reject such aggressive actions, and then to help promote opportunities for better dialogue on solutions that reflect the principles of the free world. This issue was thus highlighted by a headline in the election of the German Presidency of the OSCE in 2016, which was entitled "Renewing dialogue, building confidence and genetable security'. That was the words of Secretary of State Steinmeier as President. There are enough areas of conflict: Ukraine, the long-standing conflicts in Georgia, Moldova and Nagorno-Karabach, to mention specific geographical sites. To this can be added radicalisation, violent extremism and pressure on human rights. These are all challenges in a not very strong organisation such as the OSCE. When I say that this is not a very strong organisation, it is, of course, due to the fact that the organisation is largely based on consensus or the adoption of disapproving agendas. However, this should not lead us to abandon or relax our efforts to promote peace and security. The means of action in the OSCE are dialogue and express disapproval and non-acceptance from a wider world, monitoring military action, arms control and election observation. The aim is to create bridge building across cultures and power bases. The Austrian Presidency of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly is naturally well placed for this work by virtue of its geographical location at the heart of Europe and with strong roots in both the East and the West. The more hardcore work in the organisation takes place under the Secretary-General of the OSCE and his part of the organisation, and that part monitors hot spots where there is a risk that things will turn into aggression. At times, the harsh tone between members of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, where dialogue and debate are the most important tools, can be startled. The tone is borne by the conflicts of their respective countries. Despite the harsh tone, it is important to ensure a meeting place for these views to be broken. As a Danish parliamentarian, I would like to say that I am proud to meet representatives of Danish diplomacy who are involved in the Danish efforts in these organisations. Knowledge, experience, empathy, a large toolbox combined with respect from the other players create a good basis for Denmark to influence otherwise distracted developments in a positive direction. Danish diplomacy exerts a strong and exemplary effort. We in the Socialist Group would like to take this opportunity to highlight this. In the statement we see that the Baltic Sea Council is having a difficult time. It is subject to the involvement of key actors in conflicts. The dialogue, which is the main tool, is having a difficult time with the Ukraine crisis in the background. The aim of the Baltic Sea Council, which is to contribute to the development, safety and protection of the marine environment, is otherwise an urgent task. We should support the efforts being made to rebuild trust and dialogue through practical cooperation for the benefit of the region. It is with a little dismay that we have to note that it may not even be possible to hold a meeting of Foreign Ministers to mark the 25th anniversary of the establishment of the Baltic Sea Council and to put forward forward objectives and concrete projects to support the Council's objectives on the agenda. We share the need described in the report to launch enhanced cooperation to combat trafficking in human beings, to ensure follow-up to the UN 2030 targets for sustainable development, innovation, research, climate and protection of vulnerable children. We accept that in the frozen environment of the Baltic Sea Council, the possibility of science and research being used as pillars of obvious joint initiatives is being used. If we look at the Council of Europe and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, we see that the work here has been marked by violent events: Ukraine, terrorist attacks, migration and dramatic developments in Turkey, which unfortunately has not diminished since recent events. I foresee that the Council of Europe will continue to have plenty to do in its efforts to ensure human rights, freedom of association and freedom of expression. We see sad examples of attempts to kid these. Unfortunately, these attacks are not isolated to a single country, but something more regimes are resorting to to ensure control. The Council of Europe's efforts to promote human rights, democracy and the rule of law are essential. Denmark takes over the Presidency of the Council of Europe at the end of the year and can use this to create cooperation and cohesion in Europe. We hope that this will succeed. For the Social Democratic Party, it is important that, despite difficult conditions for cooperation and results in international organisations, we press for the renewal of dialogue, the restoration of confidence and the restoration of security. Despite the fact that Denmark belongs to the small players, it is important that we use our opportunities and traditions to gain influence for the benefit of relaxation, security and prosperity. A small player cannot be attributed to the desire to dominate, and perhaps that is why we are as one of the small countries in a position where we can create confidence and trust. These are two factors which are crucially missing from the current world's foreign policy interaction. It was supposed to be my end. I'd like to say hello to you, sir. Martin Lidegaard of the Radical Left and say that he has been captured by another event in the city and is not present. He thinks he could agree with what the Socialist rapporteur is saying.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314183242	Thank you, sir. Orla Sea and goes on in the rapporteur's line to Mr. Jan Erik Messmann, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314183301	Thank you for your statement and R 8. After all, I had planned a big talk about Nordic co-operation and the Baltic Sea region, but I have then found out today that we are postponing it, so I would just like to take the last of the six minutes of speech I have prepared. It is not so much about the Baltic Sea region. When it comes to the Baltic Sea region, there is a great deal of focus on Russia, as they have increased their military activities in the form of overflights down the Baltic Sea, along the Swedish border and down over Bornholm, where they have simulated attacks and have also increased the land-military presence near the Baltic countries. This applies, among other things, to: in Kaliningrad closes up by Lithuania, where they have set up long-range missiles, including: can reach Copenhagen in just 12-14 minutes. The Russians have vis-à-vis Sweden and Finland, among others. It is clear that they are not being looked at with a mild eye at their possible cooperation with NATO. In fact, the Baltic Sea region is the largest road for Russian energy transport, with more than half of Russia's maritime trade passing through the Baltic Sea region. That is why they have a great interest in preventing external access to parts of the Baltic Sea region in the event of a crisis. The Baltic region and the Baltic region can very easily create problems between Russia and NATO in a turbulent time that we are in now and do not really know how to end up. I can only say that this is what I had about the Baltic Sea region. Thank you again for your statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314183436	Mr President, there is one brief comment. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314183440	Thank you very much for that and thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. After all, the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party raises an exciting debate which we have running in all these different organisations: relations with Russia and, above all, Russia's action towards its neighbours, here the three Baltic countries. I would like to hear from the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party whether it is Russia that is aggressive, whether it is Russia that is acting in a cold war not only rhetoric but also actions, that is to say, a complete escalation, and to make a long story short, it is Russia that is a serious threat to stability and peace in Russia, for example. the three Baltic countries, and therefore also NATO and Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314183519	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314183521	This can be very difficult to answer in concrete terms, because of course it is perceived in society as a threat, and it is said from many different quarters that it is even a greater threat than during the Cold War, so it can be really hard to say how this ends. You may be an aggressor, but you should not say anything final. It's hard to judge by what we know.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314183551	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314183553	Thank you. I totally agree. I also think that it is Russia that is the aggressive party, because that is what we hear specific cases over and over again, and I would therefore just like to thank the answer that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party believes that Russia is the aggressive party in this area at least. So thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314183611	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314183613	I can't say anything but thank you. At least that's how I see it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314183616	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314183621	It was quite a breadless exchange that was here. Does the rapporteur not agree with me that it is very, very pointless to discuss who is the aggressive party? I think that in Russia you can sit and discuss whether it is NATO, including Denmark, that is the aggressive party, because we are moving all the way to the border at the moment, sending our F-16s up to Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, and in this way it can be experienced differently depending on where you are. In all sorts of peace and conflict resolution science one is trying to appeal to say: okay, of course one can see each other as something, but if one is to find a solution between two parties that is far apart, it is of course an advantage to take up a little in the helicopter and look at how both parties react and be a little bit self-critical. Is it not something that is practised in the Danish People's Party when one single-handedly focuses on Russia as an aggressive party?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314183722	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314183723	No, we may not do that, but it is clear that you can see it from two sides, and I myself am of the opinion that you do not need to be extremely nervous about Russia immediately, but that is how it is perceived in society. I myself will find it difficult to say exactly whether they are an aggressor or not an aggressor, but that is just what you hear it is. It is not the case that the Danish People's Party says that they are aggressor because we have very different views on how to deal with Russia. At least that's what I can say.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314183759	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314183801	Does the rapporteur not think that it is the job of every government to take down the threat picture and try to establish dialogue and try to remove the threats? I remember that sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen's Prime Minister at his inauguration said that we should have dialogue with the Russians and we should not be so afraid of them, but take over and talk to them and have dialogue and try to find solutions to the conflicts that may exist. Is it not a better form than trying to inflate a picture of two parties that are aggressive towards each other?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314183834	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314183835	Yeah, you could say that. I am not trying to inflate a picture either, but that is just what the facts are today, and I also think that the most important thing is dialogue between the parties, and I would like it to be the case that we should not be nervous about Putin or anything, but that is just not how it is perceived in general. So I can only say that I do not think we should do anything other than, of course, take up the dialogue, as Mr. Christian Juhl himself says, but you also have to be careful what you do and what you say at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314183911	Then it's mr. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314183913	Thank you. I am of the clear conviction that we must be very careful about having a arms race in the Baltic Sea and we must try whether we cannot have a relaxation and, ideally, disarmament in a negotiated agreement. At the same time, however, I fully recognise that the Baltic States can be afraid of Russia, not least for historical reasons, and not least in view of the illegal annexation that Russia made of Crimea. This brings me to my question, for with regard to the annexation of Crimea, the Foreign Affairs rapporteur, Mr. Søren Espersen said that this should only be respected, that is, respect for the illegal occupation by Russia of Crimea. Is it really the policy of the Danish People's Party that it is quite right for Russia to violate international law and occupy part of a neighbouring country?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314184010	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314184011	I do not think it is right at all to violate other countries. In short, I do not think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314184020	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314184021	I very much agree that it is important to comply with international law, but then it means that the rapporteur disagrees with Mr McMillan-Scott. Søren Espersen, who believed that we should recognise Russia's annexation of Crimea and thus the illegal violation of international law, for that is exactly what lies in it, as Mr. Søren Espersen says that we should drop the criticism of this illegal occupation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314184043	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314184045	We will be careful about too much criticism, because Putin and Russia are doing what they want. I don't want to say anything but that sir. Søren Espersen stands for what DF means. But I just think that we should, of course, be careful what we do with other countries. Russia has done what they have done, and I cannot say what else we should have done.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314184110	Thank you, sir. Jan Erik Messmann. It is, of course, the case that we have increased the speaking time for this statement, and that also means that the parties can share the speaking time between themselves, and that is why the next rapporteur, Tilde Bork, the Danish People's Party, is the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314184122	Thank you for that, President, and thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the written statement which provides a good overview of the activities of international organisations in the last year. The OSCE's primary task is to be a security and cooperation organisation in Europe, but of course also with the participation of a number of countries outside Europe. As has also been the case in recent years, the Ukraine conflict filled a great deal in the OSCE's work in 2016, both at the meetings of OSCE bodies, but also in the practical work, specifically in the form of the OSCE's special monitoring mission in Ukraine, in daily terms only called SMM, which has the task of ensuring that the parties comply with the Minsk agreement's truce and withdrawal requirements. In 2016, it was nearly 700 men, 13 of whom were Danish. On top of the participation of the crew comes that Denmark has provided financial support to the SMM of 11.5 million. kr. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Another important task is for the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly to participate with election observers, who are watching that the democratic rules of the game are respected by the countries. Of course, because it is so diverse countries that are members of the OSCE, there are also countries between which democratic culture and democratic traditions are not as rooted as in our part of the world. So here too the OSCE is helping to promote and disseminate democratic rules which we in Denmark take for granted. On the agenda of the Council of Europe, too, the crisis in Ukraine has been a recurring area, just as the situation in Russia, developments in Turkey following the attempted coup d'état and the refugee and migrant crisis have marked the Council's work over the past year. In relation to the crisis in Ukraine, the Council of Europe has been involved in several initiatives, including expert assistance. In Turkey too, the Council of Europe has been committed to the failure of the attempted coup in July last year. The Council of Europe has also been in dialogue with the Turkish authorities in order to ensure that the judicial process and the state of emergency are carried out in accordance with inter alia. the European Convention on Human Rights and Turkey's international obligations. In the Danish People's Party, we believe that it is positive when the Council of Europe offers the Member States advice and dialogue, for example. in the form of expert assistance, instead of forcing orders down over countries. After all, this is a good principle when different countries need to cooperate. In addition, we can look forward to the Danish Presidency of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, which will be taken over in November this year. Here Denmark has an opportunity to influence the work of the Council of Europe and ensure Denmark's most important interests. This is something we in the Danish People's Party look forward to very much. We call for the Council of Europe to work for freedoms, respect for basic legal principles, the fight against corruption, and for us to contribute to democratic elections. In addition, we call for continued efforts to make the Court more effective and for changes to the European Convention on Human Rights, so that individual states have the right to formulate their own politicians more effectively. In the Danish People's Party we are certainly looking forward to seeing how the Presidency will be expressed. The Minister for Justice said in December that the government would put the issue of modernising the European Convention on Human Rights on the agenda during the Danish Presidency of the Council of Europe. Of course, we in the Danish People's Party hope that the government also intends to do so. But again we in the Danish People's Party look forward to Denmark taking over the Presidency. We hope that this will help to safeguard some good interests, and we look forward, as I have said, to seeing what will be included in the Presidency programme. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314184526	There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314184530	Thank you. I can hear the rapporteur saying that the Danish People's Party's line is to support the principles of freedom and the rule of law in relation to the Council of Europe and that this is something for which the Council of Europe must work. I very much agree with that. In this context, I would just like to hear from the Danish People's Party why the Danish People's Party chose to prevent the Council of Europe from doing just this. In fact, when we last met in January, the voices of the Danish People's Party helped prevent the majority of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe from getting their will through in monitoring the development of human rights in Turkey. It was a proposal that the Left had made together with the Social Democratic Party, Enhedslisten and the Alternative.So large parts of the rest of the Danish delegation were voted by the Danish People's Party together with Erdogan's parliamentarians against monitoring the human rights situation in Turkey. What was the reason for that decision in the Danish People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314184630	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314184633	Unfortunately, there I must be the questioner's answer guilty. I wasn't down there myself, so I really don't understand why we voted against the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314184640	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314184642	I have to say that, frankly, I find that disappointing. This is the debate we have in the Folketing. It's the opening, the window, to the rest of Denmark. You can sit at home in front of TV and keep up. After all, we have to answer for the actions we are doing. We have been sent as representatives of the people's regime in a parliamentary assembly, and if you then take as far-reaching a decision as the Danish People's Party does, namely to keep a hand over a despot like Erdogan, then I think you owe Mr. and Mrs Jensen an explanation. You owe Parliament an explanation. So I have to say that I find it deeply disappointing that the rapporteur cannot measure up to the decision taken by the rapporteur's own party in the parliamentary assembly in which the rapporteur is represented.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314184725	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314184727	But again, I am sorry that I cannot explain it, and unfortunately I have not seen the proposal myself, which we have obviously voted against. I must be the questioner's answer guilty.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314184737	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314184740	Thank you. I should also like to thank Mrs Tilde Bork, who is a member of the delegation to the Council of Europe. It is, of course, only one of the organisations that we are talking about today, but it is also a very important organisation, because we are also discussing such things as, for example, the United Kingdom. Former so-called "Minister of Justice' of the so-called "Lugansk People's Republic'. And I must admit that I am a little curious about Mrs Tilde Bork's view of the matter, because there we have seen, we must be honest and say, a little different reports from the Danish People's Party, as to whether it should be allowed for a great power of bully methods to go in and occupy and annex part of a peaceful European country, another of the Member States of the Council of Europe. So just to cut to the bone: does Mrs Tilde Bork agree with what probably large parts of all the international legal order and everything else say, namely that as a great nation one cannot simply go in with bully methods, with soldiers and with weapons and annexants and occupy part of another European country?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314184838	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314184840	It's a very, very difficult discussion... all of it with Crimea and Ukraine and Russia. It's a very complex matter. However, I do not think it is possible to enter Crimea in the way it has been done.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314184851	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314184853	I am just going to be more happy, the more I am asking questions to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party today, so I just want to say thank you very much for that answer. That is a little in contrast, I can tell you, to the answers I have received from some of Mrs Tilde Bork's colleagues. But I am very pleased with this answer, so thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314184908	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314184912	Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314184914	Thank you and thank the rapporteur for the speech. The rapporteur mentions the human rights issue and the statements that have been made about the need to look at them, and the courts, etc. In fact, I would like to know more about what elements of human rights are involved, what articles the Danish People's Party wants to touch. Should we throw the whole convention up in the air and see where it ends up, or are the specific areas where you will actually go in and say that it is limited to this where you want to tamper with it and remove the rights of citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314184947	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314184949	Thank you for the question. In particular, we in the Danish People's Party would like to tamper with Article 8. And it is especially because of the things that now came out of the matter in the Supreme Court in the autumn that we would like to look at Article 8, which the Minister of Justice has also promised us or, what to say, said from the platform here in December that he would like to join in.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314185013	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314185015	There we can then have a great deal of disagreement as to whether we should mess with something as fundamental as human rights because of a single judgment, whether it is something that shakes our entire society into its foundation, so we have to put an end to these principles which have really helped Europe to become what we are today, and especially the Member States of the Council of Europe. But then I would really like to hear a little bit about it, because it is something that really worries me that you want to open up to discuss human rights and who else would say: it may be that you will discuss Article 8 and then we would like to discuss Articles 1.3 and 4 and so on. Does it not at all concern the Danish People's Party what other Member States • Russia, Turkey, Hungary • would want to tamper with human rights?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314185057	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314185059	Of course it is worrying, but there must also be a majority to get anything through, and it is not certain that the Danish People's Party can get something through just because we would like to look at Article 8.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314185109	We are grateful to Mrs Tilde Bork... no, so there was a very, very late comment. Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314185123	Thank you, and thank the President-in-Office for that. That was because it was the last answer that gave rise to a small question. It is not a question of whether you are interested in one or the other or the third. If you are interested in doing something about Article 8, you can easily be tempted to say: We will act a little if you are interested in changing some other paragraphs. And all of a sudden, you have that deal to get your own stuff through. That is what we warned the Foreign Minister when, at a committee meeting, he began to have some trouble with these things. It is extremely dangerous to go into it, because Denmark cannot fish in it alone and say that it and nothing else will have been changed. It is really a slippery slope if you start to want to deal with such paragraphs.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314185210	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314185211	Yeah, but I didn't actually quite understand what the question was. I think that was more of a finding.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314185218	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314185220	Well, that's nice. When we take note of a statement, I hope we will be in agreement. But I just think it was the rapporteur who thought it was a good idea to open up a debate on Article 8. And then I say: yes, and others will open up other things, and all of a sudden you are in a negotiating situation. Will there then be compromises in this area of human rights, a very, very sensitive area to mess with at all? Can the rapporteur not see that it can give rise to quite problematic situations when we have countries that really want to attack fundamental rights?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314185257	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314185259	Yes, I can see that, but I always think it is important that you have the opportunity to try to take some things up for reconsideration or see if you can make some proposals better. That is also what we often do in this Chamber, which is trying to change something that has already been agreed. And that is really just what we can do with some of the conventions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314185315	Then we say thank you to Mrs Tilde Bork and move on to Mr Bork. Michael Aastrup Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314185322	Thank you. Let me say from the outset that I think this is a very good statement which has come from the Foreign Minister, so thank you very much for it. And, of course, it affects a large number of them, we have to say high-tension foreign policy issues which we have discussed through the various organisations for skinlessness over the past year. Let's try to grab some of them. The first place to start is, of course, Russia. We are experiencing a completely violent aggressiveness, which has not been seen since the absolutely darkest times of the Cold War. We are experiencing a violent rhetoric in which one tries to breathe oneself into being someone to be feared. One blows oneself up when it comes to starting to threaten directly with the possibility of using nuclear weapons, for example. Denmark joins a missile shield. And you puff yourself up to the fact that one obviously feels in one's own completely devoid of reality that one has the right to go in and decide how and how the sphere of interest of neighbouring countries should be in relation to Russia, meaning that Russia must have some special area around their country, over which they must have a right of initiative, even if it is outside their own borders. This is what we have seen in the past, of course, by Russia, until the situation with the Crimea, had already occupied countries in Europe: the 2008 war in Georgia, where they are still in direct conflict to this day with the peace agreement negotiated and still do not permit OSCE observers on the north side, that is to say in the occupied territories, or by allowing the hardworking rapporteurs of the Council of Europe, for example. Georgia and other countries access to these occupied territories. So this means that we are repeatedly in direct conflict with not only the various international organisations of which we are members, the Council of Europe and the OSCE, but are also in direct contradiction with what we ourselves have signed up to by peace agreements. And then, of course, it culminated in their suddenly coming in under the guise of not being their own soldiers and starting to occupy and annex a part of a peaceful European country, namely Ukraine, and now the Crimean Peninsula has taken on again. And for that not to be a lie, it does not even stop here, because they are still offering arms and other necessities to the separatists who continue to fight the democratically elected government of Ukraine in order to bring peace and stability to the eastern part of their own country. So we are experiencing a Russia that is completely out of sense and out of law and order. And what should our answer be for that? In other words, I have personally proposed that Russia should have suspended their voting rights in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Fortunately, an overwhelming majority voted in favour of this, which is why the sanction is still in effect to this day. But is that enough? Because it must be said with shame that Russia's action on the basis of such a sanction was not just to say: well, then let us try to see if we can get to the negotiating table and have a discussion on this. No, on the other hand, it was simply that we were being brazenly insulted and said: then we would not be part of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Then there have been many different peace meetings, or what we should call such reconciliation meetings, in which I myself have had the honour of slashing something or other to attend on behalf of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and there you come up, and what you experience is that Russia's representatives, who are the Duma chairman and others, sit and believe it or don't make a single speech for over an hour that we should bow and say no and say thank you for freeing us from the Nazis, understood that then they should be allowed to do everything else. So this is the kind of Russia we are experiencing, and therefore the response must always be that we keep them on fire, both through the OSCE and the Council of Europe, and that we do not allow there to be double standards just because Russia is as big as it is and they have nuclear weapons. Then there is Ukraine in general. Ukraine, for me, is a test of whether, as an international community, we can help well enough that they will still be part of the West, of the democratic world. If not both the OSCE and the Council of Europe support the work that is being done, both against corruption, but also for reforms in the whole area of justice and other important areas, then the democratic movement is playing bankrupt in Ukraine. And that is why it is important that both the government and all other governments in the Western world back up, for our part, with crowns and ears and there it is good that Denmark is one of the countries that, through an active neighbourhood programme, has Ukraine as a focus country, as is the case with Georgia, and supports financially and with resources in terms of getting them on the right path. Then, of course, we must also turn Turkey around. After all, Turkey has only become more topical since the weekend. But unfortunately we have seen a trend, actually from before the coup attempt, but in particular intensified after the coup attempt, where we have seen that there has simply been a marked deterioration. And the deterioration has indeed resulted in us having to say that if the constitutional amendment, which is now in the referendum, is adopted, Turkey will be at an absolute bottom position as the most undemocratic country in Europe, the most undemocratic country in Europe. After all, we are witnessing repeated attacks on everything that reminds us of democracy and freedom of expression in the press, various Members of Parliament, in the form of arbitrary arrests, yes, a general breach of virtually every area of democracy and freedom of expression. And that is also why I, supported by a large number of the parties here in Parliament, have made a concrete proposal in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe that Turkey should be monitored. This is expected to be voted on at our next session of the Parliamentary Assembly shortly, and I hope and believe that there is a majority in the Council of Europe that will not only give a toast on soft diplomacy, and what I know, but which will also recognise that if we are to do something about such an undemocratic gentleman as President Erdogan and his government, we will have to take out the rough file as well. Then we will also have to say that we are not just turning the other cheek and that it will be all right. So I hope that we will adopt them, that they will be subject to monitoring, because then we will also be able to get some instruments and tools that will enable us to hopefully make it a hope that Turkey will be able to move a little more towards a more democratic line. Unfortunately, we are also seeing another country, which is not given so much attention, but on which both the OSCE and the Council of Europe are focused, and that is Azerbaijan. I just want to say ultracards for the sake of time... that Azerbaijan I'm very worried about. The complete military armament that we are experiencing and the various breaches of everything reminiscent of democracy in that country make us nervous about the escalation of a military conflict between Azerbaijan and Armenia. On the other hand, the internal fight against democracy that is taking place in Azerbaijan is also seriously worrying. I will end with what will mean a great deal to at least part of us, namely that Denmark will take over the Presidency of the Council of Europe from November this year. After all, the government has already said that they give this a very high priority, and I think that is very important. Because it is no secret that the Council of Europe is in a crisis of existence, in which we have, in particular, the two countries that I have spoken a great deal about, namely Russia and Turkey, which are acting more and more as they wish, while at the same time we also have challenges in relation to, among other things, Russia and Turkey. an extremely activitic court, namely the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. And so we are just forced to recognise that the world is changing, time is changing, and that those conventions, which were perhaps completely up to date and completely modern, just after World War II was over, maybe it is not so many years after. Unfortunately, we are seeing a more and more activist court that goes in and has a definite influence on something that I believe should be national legislation. And I know that we are up to something that is extremely sensitive. We are also out here in something that is extremely difficult because you are not just opening Pandora's box, so to speak, and just getting the conventions that need to be updated and then closing it again, and everything is done. I fully understand that you don't just do this. But we also have to deal with the difficult cases, because if we do not, we will not only lose the public's support for the Court of Human Rights, but we will also lose the whole idea of having a Court of Human Rights. So it is necessary that we go in and simply get to grips with this even if it becomes difficult, even if it gets uphill. And that is why I am glad that the government has put it as much on the agenda as they have. And let me send a friendly thought to the ambassador of our representation down in Strasbourg and, above all, to the hardworking people who are down there with the travel corps that have been set up and which I know are travelling around and are already in the process of forming a breeding ground for this to happen. So, with those words, I would like to conclude by saying that there is enough to talk about in the future, and with the organisations that we have, fortunately, we also have organisations which, if we want to, can take action in some areas and also make a difference. And I must also remember to say from my colleague from the Conservative People's Party, Mr. Naser Khader, who unfortunately cannot be present in the Chamber today, also supports the government's statement, which has been presented, and supports it one hundred percent. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314190526	Thank you. Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten, has a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314190529	Thank you. First of all, I'm gonna start by signing up to Mr. Knox. Michael Aastrup Jensen for his efforts in the Council of Europe and for the good cooperation we have had to work towards monitoring Turkey. That is what is really needed and, unfortunately, it was prevented by, among others. The votes of the Danish People's Party, but we continue. What I'd like to ask, sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen, on the other hand, is this effort against the dynamic interpretation by the European Court of Human Rights, as Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen is talking about. What I have heard the government criticize is Article 8, which deals with the right to privacy and family life. It's the government's pissed off. There are others who are tired of that article, such as Viktor Orbán, the Prime Minister of Hungary. He is tired of it because Article 8 has meant that there has been a judgment by the Court of Human Rights against the Hungarian Government because the Hungarian intelligence service had secretly bugged the private homes of NGO-actives. This is, of course, an example of Article 8 protecting civil society, protecting the life of association. Is Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen does not fear that an amendment to Article 8 will precisely pave the way for such violations as those we see in Hungary to be allowed?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314190701	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314190702	Thank you for the question. That's what I was trying to address in my speech by saying that this isn't just something you do. You don't just open Pandora's box like I used as an example, and then you just change it like that. But there is full understanding on my part. For us, at any rate, it is extremely important that what we call fundamental human rights should be maintained one hundred per cent, even after we have made the update. The only problem is that with the activist court we are seeing more and more, you have gone in and interfered with something that I do not think can be any of the things you were thinking of after World War II ended, where you started thinking that now there should be some European human rights that you should have. I simply do not believe that this was done then, and that is why we have come too far, so to speak, and that is why we have to create some, we have to say a better framework for it. However, that framework must also be there, which is why it does not mean that it should simply be the case that we are shooting at everything and tossing down human rights in the future. For the Council of Europe is based on human rights, and so it must be in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314190809	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314190811	Thank you. I am really afraid that we will open Pandora's box, as the rapporteur also mentioned. I would like to say that there are a number of things on which we see decisions and activities on the part of the Council of Europe and the Court of Human Rights and which we welcome. In other words, there is nothing in the Human Rights Convention on LGBT rights or on the right to privacy when sending e-mails. That is something that has just been interpreted as a protection, and Viktor Orbán's answer will be: well, there is nothing in the Human Rights Convention on foreign agents, and these are foreign agents that we, inspired by Putin, do not like when they do NGO activity and civil society activity in Hungary, so we must be allowed to monitor them. What is the certainty that such a person as Orbán is not happy with the government's presidency?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314190903	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314190905	I fully agree that this is going to be difficult, but let us cut right to the bone: if we do not get marked and not least update the whole question of the functioning of the court, I think we will see countries in a very, very short time which simply say they will have to suspend it and that they will have to resign, or something else. That is the alternative we have, because the fact that we have had such an activist court in some areas that I believe fall within the scope of national law has meant that there are countries that simply say to the Court: you have now gone too far, and if you continue that way, then we cannot be in it anymore. That is why the alternative is that and I do not think that is a good alternative. That is why I say that we must then do everything we can to update those conventions so that they also fit into the context for 2017. Is that gonna be hard? Yeah. Is that possible? Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314190956	It is now the case that speaking time must be respected. Michael Aastrup Jensen I have no watch on my screen, so something has gone wrong). Is there a problem? Michael Aastrup Jensen It simply says nothing). It happens a little too often, and that's too bad, but then I'll get up in time. Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314191010	Thank you. Now it is a little drastic to start thinking that, because we disagree with a judgment, we must suspend our membership of the Council of Europe. I think that is something drastic to hear from the rapporteur of a government-leading party. I'm gonna have to chew on that a little bit. However, it is important to ask the question, because when you open up and say that you want to change Article 8, it is probably like here in the Folketing that you have to find some alliance partners who would also like to discuss some paragraphs and then start negotiating it. - Sir... Michael Aastrup Jensen tell me who he's going to ally himself with? Those against whom he is thundering, whom I agree with him to thunder against both Putin, Erdogan and the Hungarian leadership, want to discuss these things; they are ready in the first place. Is that you, sir? Michael Aastrup Jensen wants to negotiate with? Or who is it? It is nice to know, because I have heard that others have said: at least we should not have touched these things; we find ourselves comfortable with the level we now have, because the risk of it is greater than the possibility of improvement. I don't see who we can ally with, and I really, really, really don't want him to go in the bunk with these people.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314191125	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314191127	Thank you. First of all, I would just like to correct a misunderstanding with Mr. Knox. Christian Juhl. I did not say that Denmark was about to suspend it. On the contrary, it was my fear that other countries would do so if we did not update the conventions. It's just to get that misunderstanding cleared out of the world. Then I am asked to be specific and I would like to be specific. I believe, for example, that Britain and the Netherlands, for example, are going to be two countries with which we would clearly be able to make some sort of cooperation in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314191157	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. No, there is one more brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314191206	That is, of course, only a brief comment. The United Kingdom and the Netherlands are not doing this alone, but are there any agreements with the two countries that we are going to jump into this experiment now? Otherwise, there are the others left and will it be possible to see the Left recommending agreements with Turkey, Hungary and Russia on this issue?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314191232	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314191234	After all, I am not the Foreign Minister, and we should ask the Foreign Minister what is being done in concrete terms by the government. But I can say that for the Left it is the case that we warmly support it. After all, we are already in the Bureau, both in the Committee of Ministers and in the Parliamentary Assembly, because we are taking over the Presidency very soon, and I know that there is this travelling group that is trying to build something up. But under the auspices of the Council of Europe, before you take over the presidency, you cannot start big projects like this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314191310	Thank you to the rapporteur. Now there are no more brief comments. Then it's mr. Nikolaj Villumsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314191319	Thank you. There is no watch, so if you wait to get started, I can put my speaking time here on my dear little cell phone. Do you want me to do it? I'll try to guide you. It's too bad it doesn't work) Yes, but we have a nice conversation. I will.) That's good. Thank you, President. It is by no means ideal to discuss these important organizations, international forums together, but unfortunately it has been decided. I have to say that I think today's debate underlines the importance of doing so. For example, I have to say that I am astonished that we can simply have a situation in which the Danish People's Party in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe can vote to keep its hands on Erdogan and prevent us, and indeed the majority of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, from having the consequences of our criticism of the human rights violations that are taking place in Turkey, without it being possible to explain today in the platform why they have done so. I think there are a great many Danes who are sitting and watching this debate, who will be surprised that in this very inexplicable way in the Danish People's Party, the Turkish Islamic President Erdogan is choosing to back him in this way in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. That is why it is important that we have the debate today. When Denmark is about to become President of the Council of Europe, my speech will also be about the Council of Europe, because it is necessary for us to have a discussion with the Council of Europe, and I hope that when the Foreign Minister comes to us he will be able to tell us more about what the priorities are for the Danish Presidency of the Council of Europe. Basically, it has to be said that the Council of Europe is a clear success. The organization was created by Denmark and nine other Western European countries on the ruins of a terrible Second World War in which the European continent had been ravaged by war, oppression and racism. The Council of Europe was created with a very clear message. The message was never again. Never again were these atrocities to happen to Europe. They created a new organisation based on the foundations of the European Convention on Human Rights. Denmark and the other Western European democracies have thus created, with the Council of Europe, a completely unique international organisation which contributes to the spread of democracy and human rights and which today has all the countries of Europe from Iceland to Azerbaijan, from Russia to Portugal, with the exception of Belarus, and which ensures that more than 800 million people in the world are entitled to human rights, because their countries have committed themselves to this. Well, that's quite an achievement, isn't it? Without going to war, without a drop of blood being spilled, it is something that the Council of Europe and thus also the Danish efforts have contributed to. This is not just positive because it guarantees fundamental rights for people in individual countries. It is also positive because it is an essential element in creating stability and peace in Europe. This is among other things. The fact that people have fundamental rights that give the stability and peace that we have in Europe and that, unfortunately, other parts of the world are not so lucky to have. Having said all that, I think it is necessary to say this because we often talk about all the bad things, but there is something here that is an international success that we have helped to create, we should not rest on the laurels. If we look into Europe, it is clear that human rights are under pressure. Very fundamental and fundamental values are being violated in the Member States of the Council of Europe. I also assume that the Minister for Foreign Affairs will address this when he comes to the floor when it is stated in his statement. In other words, we have a situation in which a large number of governments in each country run from the promises they have made to their peoples to guarantee these citizens fundamental human rights. They run from the promises they made when they applied for membership of the Council of Europe. We see this quite clearly in Russia, which I visited last week with a delegation from the Foreign Policy Group. Here's the kids' freedom of speech, media and assembly every day. We came to experience it on our own body when we saw, for example, that our Norwegian journalist and guide were rejected at the border because he has probably written critically about the Russian government's environmental hog etc. You can't do that. One has to ask oneself: when you reject from the Russian side a journalist based on security and without giving any argument or clear explanation, it shows that they are despots who are afraid of freedom of the media, of freedom of expression. On the other hand, for all of us, for a society in general stability, it provides a good foundation for a good society to have precisely freedom of expression, media and assembly. In Turkey, the situation is that the last 11⁄2 years have gone from bad to absolutely terrible. Last week, the UN was able to document violent attacks in the form of deportation, torture and killing of civilians. It is estimated that 500 000 civilians have been hunted on the run from the Kurdish territories of south-east Turkey. I think most people in Denmark share my concern about the behaviour of Turkish President Erdogan. But his oppression encloses him in a series of despots, which we unfortunately see in the world at this time. On the other hand, there is something that separates him from some of the other despots in his vicinity. For example, if we take a guy like Assad, the dictator in Syria, we see that unlike Assad, we actually have a squeeze on President Erdogan, just as we have a squeeze on Russian President Putin for that matter. They have committed themselves, through their countries' membership of the Council of Europe, not only to their own people but also to all other Member States, to ensuring and respecting fundamental human rights. In other words, there is nothing that we impose on them when we talk about them respecting fundamental human rights. On the contrary, it is a promise they made as a member of the Council of Europe. It is a promise they have made to their people, and that is what the Council of Europe, like the Court of Human Rights, and on the Danish side, in our dialogue with President Erdogan and President Putin, for example, can hold them up. That is why we also see that Russia and Turkey top the list of most sentences in the European Court of Human Rights. Here their citizens can seek justice when they cannot have it in their own countries. It is a very, very important element of the rights granted by the Council of Europe, namely that individual citizens can go to the Court of Human Rights, so that Turks, Russians, Azerbaijanis, Danes, etc. have the right to sue their own states for violations. It provides individual protection, and it helps to counteract instability and conflict, which naturally follows when people do not have a proper way of getting a fair settlement. For example, if we want to prevent more than 500 000 people who have already been driven from their homes in south-east Turkey from fleeing, if we do not want another country on the border with the European Union to sink completely into chaos, then the Council of Europe is indeed a crucial tool. It is a tool that Denmark should work to strengthen both through more resources to speed up proceedings at the Court of Human Rights and to the Council of Europe in general. It is thought-provoking, I have to say, that, despite the importance of the Council of Europe, I believe that all the parties have so far been talking about the organisation's annual budget for just one day's consumption in the European Union. Unfortunately, that says something about the countries' priorities for this important organisation. It should be a top priority for a Danish Presidency to strengthen the Council of Europe with resources. I hope that is what we will hear from the Foreign Minister when he comes to the platform later. However, it should also be the natural task of the Danish Presidency to put in place the need for stronger tools to get countries to live up to their promises on the agenda. The countries and governments that have promised to give their peoples rights but do not need to be dealt with harder. Similarly, it is obvious that Denmark is working to get the EU to live up to the promise made to the people of the EU countries by the Treaty of Lisbon, which promised to join the Council of Europe's Convention on Human Rights. It is an obvious subject for the Danish Government to take up as part of the Presidency as an EU country that, of course, the EU must live up to the promise made in the Treaty of Lisbon and adhere to the Convention on Human Rights. Whether that will be the priorities of the Danish Presidency, I have no idea, but I hope that the Minister for Foreign Affairs will use the opportunity to listen to the proposals that have come from the Enhedslisten today and to present the Danish priorities from the government to the Presidency, because it is coming up. In November Denmark will take over the Presidency. Today it is an obvious opportunity for us to discuss priorities. One thing we know, however, that the government intends to use force is to work to combat the so-called dynamic interpretation of the human rights convention by the Court of Human Rights. In other words, the government is not going to strengthen, but is going to stab the Court of Human Rights, at a time when we see scoundrels such as Putin, Erdogan and Orbán in power around Denmark. I have to ask the Foreign Minister: what positive does the Foreign Minister expect from sitting around a table with President Putin, President Erdogan and Prime Minister Orbán from Hungary and discussing a reduction in the influence of the Court of Human Rights? Honestly, I don't understand. You open Pandora's box. To be honest, what does the government mean when talking about a dynamic interpretation? If you read the Convention on Human Rights, you'll see that there's nothing in it aboutlgbt rights. There is nothing about privacy in terms of e-mails, and it is for the simple reason that e-mails were not invented in 1949 and that, unfortunately, the rights of homosexuals were not very high on the agenda. However, I am absolutely convinced that virtually all of us in the Folketing believe that it is important that the rights of homosexuals are guaranteed and that privacy is guaranteed when we send an e-mail. In other words, the Convention on Human Rights would be completely useless in the context of a wide range of rights which I think many Danes take for granted that they have if it was not interpreted into the time in which we live. I have to say that the dynamic interpretation is not unique to the Convention on Human Rights. Well, that's what happens with the Constitution. Who in Denmark would accept the words of the Constitution that the King decides who is Prime Minister? Who in Denmark would accept that the laws are given by the King and not by the Folketing if Queen Margrethe tried to introduce a literal interpretation of the Constitution? None of us would, and this is because there is an ongoing interpretation of how to understand the words of the Constitution and what their meaning is. I know that Article 8 on the right to privacy has often been criticised here by, among others. The government. We had a consultation where we could hear from the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Justice it was in the Committee on Foreign Affairs that the government wants to change this Article 8. What exactly will you change? What will be gained by doing so? After lengthy consultation, we could not get an answer. We know that Danish officials talk to governments in other countries. We have been told from a reply to the German Bundestag that the German Government has rejected such a change blankly. We know from a reply to the Swedish Parliament that the Swedish Government will do exactly the same. It is otherwise countries which are what one would normally call like-minded on the Danish side. Who's gonna back it up? It's in the dark. We have been told that Holland and England would do so, perhaps. I hope we can get clarification from the Foreign Minister, but I have no doubt that Orbán, Putin and Erdogan really want to back up. These are the people you have to sit around a table and negotiate with. Even if you do not agree with them, they will still have an impact on the outcome of the negotiations. It may as well be that it is Erdogan and Putin who get the majority of the Member States for the changes, and not Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen and Mr. Anders Samuelsen. For example, if you look at Article 8 on privacy and the right to a family, it is relevant that the Court of Human Rights has given a ruling against the Hungarian Government. I have the verdict here. Hungarian intelligence has secretly bugged the private homes of NGO activists in Hungary. It was a clear crime against the right to privacy and the right to family life. It was a violation of Article 8, which the government would like to change the interpretation of. I'd like to eat my old hat on the fact that sir... Viktor Orbán fully agrees with the Danish Government that Article 8 should be watered down. There are certainly a large number of other countries that are suffering from human rights that will back up. The only question is, what are the consequences? For me, the best bet is Pandora's box. It does not serve Denmark and it does not serve stability and security and human rights in Europe. There are 18 seconds left) Thank you for your patience.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314192851	I would just like to say that the people mentioned by the rapporteur are referred to as the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs and not by name. Then there is a comment from Mr. Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314192904	Thank you. Now we are discussing this update of the conventions, which I can hear Enhedslisten is very nervous about. So let me turn it around. Nikolaj Villumsen does not worry about what will happen if we do not update the Convention on Human Rights, and we then experience cases like this. Mr Levakovic, the Gypsy boss, who clearly exhibits what happens when you have an activist court in Strasbourg? At any rate, I do not think there are many Danes who can see the sense in the fact that the gentleman in question must be protected by so-called human rights. Does the rapporteur not agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314192948	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314192950	I fully agree that if it were just Mr. Levakovic, that was the case, so he had to be deported because he committed crime. The reason why he is not expelled is, of course, the consideration for his children, who are Danish citizens, so that consideration is given to children who are Danish citizens' rights. This is based on the fact that even children of criminals have rights, and it is clear that it can then be frustrating that Mr. Levakovic cannot be deported, but when it is the consideration for the children that counts, I think it should also be taken into account. But you can discuss whether it is the right assessment or not. What just puzzles me extremely is that in this situation I do not think there are any cases mentioned other than the ones that people are tired of so possibly allying with some countries that have a long, long series of judgments against them. Is it really government policy to go with them? I'm surprised.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314193108	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314193110	It exhibits what the problem is. It exhibits it, of course, by the fact that here we have a bottom criminal who has given, I don't know how many interviews, and almost laughs at us as a nation. I have to admit that we have a political disagreement here with the Enhedslisten on one side and the Left on the other. We do not believe that the gentleman in question should be protected by any form of human rights umbrella. We believe that when a man is such a criminal, he must be expelled, and so, of course, by having updated these conventions we will also try to see if the gentleman in question can be thrown out. But fair enough, there may be political disagreement as to whether such a gentleman should be allowed to be in the country or not, and that is so evident.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314193148	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314193150	What is involved in the great disagreement between us is what we really want to achieve. In other words, we have discussed this with Pandora's box, and the rapporteur himself mentioned it, and the problem is that when you say that there should be a different interpretation of Article 8, what should be the different interpretation? It is precisely Article 8, for example, which prevents illegal monitoring of NGOs in Hungary. The question is, where do you end up when you throw this thing up in the air, and there I miss a plan from the government, because it is a very serious matter to throw it up in the air, because it gives some rights to us as Danes too which I think we all appreciate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314193233	Then I also have to say that one should be careful not to mention people who cannot speak up, no matter how justified one might think it is. But those are the rules, so I just wanted to say it. Here you go. I have some doubts about who should speak right now, because I have just spoken). As a matter of fact, so am I. When you have to keep an eye on the clock and everything, things can go a little wrong. But nobody should, because no one has asked for more brief comments. That's good, thanks for that. Sir. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314193311	There's full understanding from here. With the statement about selected international organisations there has been little doubt about how many it was, but we have had it shaved down to three • The Danish Parliament gets a very good overview of the work in these different international forums. Good things are happening within the OSCE. Under German leadership, we are working to strengthen dialogue, trust and security, and we can only say that this is something that is very much needed. There are OSCE countries which are subject to a very fragile ceasefire agreement among themselves. There are OSCE countries where problems with respect for human rights are increasing and not decreasing. There are situations where one OSCE Member State names other Member States with the worst words in the political language. So there is no doubt that strengthening dialogue, trust and security is a good idea. I am also pleased to note that Denmark is doing a great deal of work here, with which we can be more than satisfied. As far as the Baltic Sea Council is concerned, many good things are also being worked on, and they are being examined in the report. But there is one word that I think is drowning it all out, and that is the word revival. The work will help to gradually pave the way for a revival of the role of the Baltic Council as a forum for political dialogue. I have read a little on a website called the Danish Council for Resurrection. It is not very nice to think that this is where the metaphor is being drawn to describe the Baltic Council. Reviving is something that is being implemented in connection, for example, with. cardiac arrest. There, the patient has an average of 13%. A chance to survive. I do not know whether this applies to the Baltic Sea Council as well. If you slip in very quickly, the chance is better, and if nothing happens, or if it is not fast enough, death is irreversible. Finally, there is the Council of Europe. After all, it is difficult to say anything new when one comes down to the rapporteur, because many rapporteurs have already said that the finest result of the Council of Europe is, after all, the European Convention on Human Rights and the corresponding Court of Human Rights. That is why it is regrettable that there are up to several Member States which are practically showing the way in terms of restricting human rights and not strengthening them. It is also regrettable that the European Court of Human Rights, of its own motion, has contributed to weakening popular support for the very important cause of human rights. This is not least the case, as we have mentioned several times, and as several rapporteurs have mentioned, by virtue of some dynamic principles of interpretation, which, according to the Danish lawyer, we are talking about a lecturer in international law at the University of Copenhagen, Anders Henriksen • has changed the convention to something that its creators did not have in mind. It was not intended to protect criminal foreigners as strongly as the protection has been, nor was it really the original intention, and it is Anders Henriksen's chronicle in Politiken from January of this year, I refer to the sovereign right of the states to determine who is entering their territory, should be reduced as much as it has actually been. Here Anders Henriksen says that it is a question of ensuring the future of the Convention on Human Rights, not of rejecting it. I very much agree with that. And this will be one of the tasks of the forthcoming Danish Presidency when it addresses the issue of the activism of the Court of Human Rights. What is to be done about a statement as complex as this one? One of the things that could be done was to carry out a so-called SWOT analysis, i.e. an analysis of the strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats in relation to Denmark, which one can join out of the statement. The vital strength of the international organizations is • and it may sound a bit banal, but it is not really that they exist. As Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen has also mentioned, the Foreign Policy Name has just been on a trip to Russia, and I also participated in it, and here it struck me that a world without international organisations would be a worse world for Denmark, no matter how little progress is made, and no matter how frustrating it must be to have its daily work in the organisations. International organizations keep the conversation going, they keep it open, and then they have a quality like Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen also mentioned, but as he formulated in a slightly different way. We may not be so divided, but what international organisations are doing is that they set a normative framework for the way in which the states are handled. And what's this about the normative framework? Indeed, even in cases where a country violates the principles on which it is based, it is possible to refer to the fundamental values and mission of the organisation. And on that basis, you can state that it is normative that this state or that state is doing double standards. So even if we cannot achieve other results, we can at least establish within a normative framework that the action we are looking at is double standards. It does not change anything in the short term, but it changes the legitimacy of what the state that has gone astray is doing. The weakness of the organisations is, of course, that several of them find it very difficult to deliver in the area they call their core business in other contexts. It is difficult for the OSCE to go the wrong way in Europe in terms of security and co-operation, which S and C represent. The Council of Europe is challenged if there is no future guarantee of the Convention on Human Rights and the way the Court works. This is related to some of what the earlier mentioned Anders Henriksen and his chronicle in Politiken mentioned, namely that there is a connection between the conventions, the court and the political legitimacy. If there is no political legitimacy at all, one can easily come into a situation where the people around Europe will simply reject these mechanisms and vote in favour of those who will turn their backs entirely on them. That weakness is also the greatest threat to international organisations, so I shall come back to that. The opportunities are the good work that has been set in motion in many places. Perhaps it all ends up with demonstrable progress in relation to the Minsk agreement or success in the efforts to reform the activism of the Court of Human Rights. Then the organisations have been worth the work and concerns. Finally, there are the threats, which unfortunately there are many of them. The liberal world order, which has emerged from the destruction of World War II, is under pressure and has soon been so for a long time. Large countries such as Russia and Turkey are moving in an iliberal direction. There is evidence of this all the time. And so do EU partners in countries such as Hungary and Poland. And the more this iliberal trend is continuing and perhaps spreading, the more the OSCE and the Council of Europe in particular will be unable to deliver in the areas which justify their very existence. This does not mean that any of the organisations will disappear, because historical experience tells us that such organisations do not. But what we can imagine if we do not keep the organisations relevant and politically legitimate, as I have said, is that they are waning. That is what happens to organisations, that is to say, that they stand as rituals and procedures, but that the states sacrifice less energy on them; that the states send out representatives at lower levels and that the organisations become irrelevant. Two things can happen. At best they become cozy traditions like Christmas or the Nordic Council Literature Prize, and at worst they become memorials of the time when it was thought that the tensions of peace and security policy had been abolished, but one had to realise that it was only a hope. I hope that the forces and opportunities will win over the weaknesses and threats and, in any case, I would like to thank you for your statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314194315	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314194320	Thank you. I will deal with this discussion about the interpretation of the Convention on Human Rights. Sir. Henrik Dahl quoted someone who said that the creators did not have what has happened in mind. There are others who say something quite different, and one can at least say that if the creators of the Court of Human Rights did not want an ongoing interpretation to take place, they would probably not have set up a court, they would have just drawn up a convention and then said: this is the word, you break the word, then there is no need for interpretation. But it is precisely a court of interpretation that has been set up. What did that mean? This has meant that lgbt rights have been interpreted into the convention, protection of privacy has been interpreted on the Internet and not only in letters into the convention, and if you ask some of the others, such as President Putin, he will say: 'Well, there is nothing about lgbt rights in this convention, so why should I abide by it?' Why should my country be judged here? I would just like to ask the rapporteur: is it not problematic, although we may disagree with some judgments, that a country such as Denmark, which has so few convictions against it, is throwing the ball up in the air and is in danger of ending up in an alliance with a large number of countries that really have a human rights problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314194447	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314194449	Those are some very pertinent objections. I should just like to say for the record that I referred from an article in Politiken on 17 January 2017 by Anders Henriksen, who is not anyone but a lecturer in international law at the University of Copenhagen. What is crucial is one of the things that is also being pointed out here and with which I agree, and that is the political legitimacy of individual countries in Europe of the European Convention on Human Rights. I see it as an issue of the utmost importance that the Convention on Human Rights can retain its political legitimacy, and what is the problem is that it may lose this legitimacy, and this may lead to the voting of political parties around the countries, which will take the human rights convention out of the agenda. So I believe that these objections can of course be raised, but the great thing we are talking about is the political legitimacy of the Convention on Human Rights, which we must do a great deal to maintain.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314194556	Thank you. Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314194559	Thank you. As I said, you can disagree with judgments. There are convictions I disagree with. But what is the consequence of putting the whole interpretation at risk of the whole system when you open the ball? What is basically at risk is that you end up in a place where you completely water down the Convention and the Court of Human Rights at a time when we need to see judgments handed down, for example against Erdogan, to prevent him from driving even more of his own people out of their homes and possibly forcing them as refugees into Europe. So I just want to say that I miss a plan for where you want to end up. We have been discussing this for more than an hour now and we are in a situation where something very drastic will be done, but I have not heard a plan for how to land it in a sensible way.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314194657	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314194659	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen's reasoning is not an invalid reasoning; I just think that it can be held against a reasoning which I think is more important, and that is the very political legitimacy of the European Convention on Human Rights, because if political legitimacy disappears, then one can well imagine that around Europe one can see that voters would prefer political parties in a rather large-scale way, which refuse to speak about the Convention on Human Rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314194728	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314194735	I find it a little difficult to keep up with the debate when Mr. Henrik Dahl protests against a dynamic principle of law, as Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen mentioned earlier also exists in Danish legislation and in the Constitution, and at the same time says: Well we must future-proof the law. So I have not yet met Danes at general assembly meetings who have pointed out that there is something wrong with the basic human rights rules in Europe. So there is no risk that legitimacy, at least popular legitimacy, will be on the way out. I certainly do not think there is. And there I think we have also had situations where this Things has made laws that were contrary to legal certainty, for example. The law of the wind, which had to be changed because you can't go after a single person or a group of people. But when you want to make legislation, it is a group of citizens, and then there can be an unfortunate example, but you cannot change the law because a single citizen seems provocative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314194838	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314194840	Well, I have to say again, as I also said to Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen, that we may not disagree with that either, I just regard a crisis of legitimacy for the Convention on Human Rights as a problem. And so I have to say that such a thing as the expulsion of criminal foreigners and, in part, such a problem as how much right states have to decide who is on their territory, is the driving force in what to say, relatively popular political movements around Europe. So we should agree on the fight for legitimacy. And then you just have to discuss how to fight for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314194924	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314194926	Should we not agree that saying that the expulsion of a criminal foreigner is setting up a debate as if there is an existential crisis of human rights in Europe is just a little out of proportion? What I mean is that because the Ekstra Bladet may be able to make many good stories about a Yes, yes, but then there are many laws that should be changed, or many rules that should be changed, if it is not to provoke it, that one should fall outside the system. And I'd rather see it than the whole system collapse.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314195007	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314195009	Now I can't ask counter-questions, but you can think together. So, I would guess that a major driving force in the particular road of the Visegrád countries in the European Union and in some of the political actors in the process in Germany, the Netherlands and France is, in fact, a general dislike of human rights. So it is not the case that anyone is angry that they have seen a headline in the Extra Magazine. It's much more serious than that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314195036	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314195045	Reality is subtle and unpredictable, and we are constantly reminded that nothing is safe because nothing can be taken for granted. Trump and Brexit are two of the latest examples of how reality can suddenly change, but they are also examples that drastic changes in one country affect many other countries because we are all part of an international community. One of the things we must not take for granted in the international community is not peace, even though many of us have grown up with peace. The peace that we have grown up with has been conditional on the European countries saying never again after the Second World War! and came together in a meaningful community. One of these meaningful communities in which we came together was the Council of Europe, which we among other things. here is gathered to take stock of. For me, the Council of Europe has been crucial to the development of the international community in a progressive, humanist and solidarity direction. Just think of the enormous importance of the Convention on Human Rights to international cooperation, how it has helped to ensure basic human rights and freedoms for millions of people, the right to freedom, the right to privacy, the right to a fair trial, the right to think and to believe freely and the right to speak freely. All these rights, which we Danes, together with millions of people in Europe and in the rest of the world, use every day, are an important democratic legacy for which we owe a great deal, yes, of course our constitution, but also the Council of Europe's work on human rights. That human rights are inviolable, I actually believe most of us today agree. This should certainly be the case, not least if we look back in the history books and remember how important they have been in the fight for peace, for freedom and democracy. That is why I am also concerned that more and more people today are openly talking about challenging human rights, challenging the right to be with their family, the right to protection, the right to express themselves, just to take some of the examples that are going around Europe today. In fact, some are no longer merely talking about it, but are also actively doing so through legislation. Legislation is adopted which openly discriminates against refugees and immigrants, which restricts the freedom of expression of certain groups in society, which gradulate conventions in asylum cases and which keep families separated across national borders. Of course, it matters when a country such as Denmark speaks openly about challenging and reforming human rights, because even though Denmark is a small country, we are also a very large nation when it comes to the spread of human rights, and that is why it will naturally be a great spectacle if we take the threats seriously from Denmark, and it will of course also affect our relations with neighbouring countries and our position in international cooperation. However, if we turn to the big world, it is clear that human rights are not only being discussed here in Denmark, but are actually under pressure from many sides. Trump, Putin, Erdogan, Assad, Orbán sits in the unflattering society that challenges the importance of the conventions. It is in uncertain times like these that international, meaningful cooperation is needed, because it is only through these cooperation that we state and state between, but also state and population between, that human rights are not a given thing. The conventions are one of our most important tools for holding each other up on human rights, which protect us all regardless of ethnicity, race, gender, religion, belief, disability, age and sexual orientation, and I therefore hope, in particular, that we can use this debate to remind each other why we have conventions, why we have fought hard to protect them for more than 60 years and why it is important that we continue to fight for them. When I have taken part in debates in the past on whether to reform the European Convention on Human Rights, I have almost been tempted to believe that it is only intended to protect one named criminal. Of course it is not, and we know it. We know that conventions protect us all, criminals and non-criminals, children, women, men, refugees and citizens. They protect us from discrimination, against repression, against detention, against illegal surveillance and against unfair trial. Fortunately, in Denmark we are so privileged that human rights are almost a matter of course. We are here today, for example. so privileged that we have the opportunity to express our unreserved opinion without any consequences. However, as you know, freedom of expression is not a matter of course everywhere. In Turkey, we see journalists and democratically elected parliamentarians imprisoned in the most undemocratic processes. We can all agree that developments in Turkey are under all criticism, but if we did not have a strong human rights convention, our criticism of Erdogan's regime would not have the same weight. This is therefore a very topical example of the fact that conventions in the Council of Europe remain an important tool in today's society. The Danish Government, with its forthcoming Presidency of the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers, has made itself the banner of reforming the European Convention on Human Rights. Of course, we are deeply concerned about this by the alternative. Firstly, it is precisely when conventions hurt the states that it is important that we politicians step in and support them. It is at times like these that courts become relevant, because courts protect citizens' rights against violations by the state. With regard to developments in Hungary, Russia and Turkey, I have no doubt that we are all of the same opinion here. This should also be the case when we look in the mirror in the morning, and that is why, on a day like today, we must remember that the conventions do not exist for the sake of the States, they are for the benefit of the citizens, and that is why we must consider whether the reformists will strengthen citizens' rights or weaken them. Secondly, the government is entering into an unfortunate society of nations such as Hungary, Azerbaijan, Poland, Russia and Turkey, which also want to escape some of the obligations of the Convention on Human Rights, so that they have freer hands to impose restrictions on their people and press. If these countries succeed in their business, we are seriously moving towards a more unstable and uncertain legal order, and the alternative does not want to contribute to that. Unfortunately, as one of the founders of the Convention on Human Rights, a Danish reform wish will only reinforce that movement, and it will certainly pave the way for other and more radical desires to challenge the conventions and give them greater legitimacy. For the same reason, we are extremely sceptical about the government's announcements and call for the government to take a different course that ensures peace and security on both citizens' freedoms and Denmark's role in the international fight for peace and freedom and for democracy. Thirdly, it is important that, when we have these debates, we manage to keep the proportions just about in order. Several speakers in the debate have argued that the dynamic interpretation style of the European Court of Human Rights prevents Denmark from pursuing a strict foreign policy. That's just not the case. At any rate, I do not have the impression that the European Court of Human Rights is preventing Denmark from pursuing a strict immigration policy, and I must say, unfortunately, not. The Court of Justice is just doing what it is put in the world for. It protects citizens from the state's violations of citizens' basic rights. Some then think that the court goes too far in its interpretation, but to me it just shows that the job of the court is not to dance after the politicians' pipe, but to protect citizens from the state when it tries to undermine citizens' rights, and I think that is a good thing, at least if we look at it in a historical perspective. For example, where were we in relation to the rights of homosexuals if the court had not had the opportunity to interpret the conventions dynamically? One of the reasons on the part of the government for reforming the court is that people do not want to lose their support for the conventions because they think the conventions are too far-reaching. I agree with the government that it is important that we ensure the public's support for the conventions, but I completely disagree that there should be no support for the rights that guarantee freedom of expression for all Danes, freedom of assembly, the right to privacy and the right to believe what we want. Therefore, the government of the Alternative's optics should put its powers in a completely different place. It is not about the fact that we cannot have an open debate on the Court's practice and decision; it is actually about the opposite. We should talk much more about how important those decisions are for citizens' legal certainty and freedom. And we must remind each other why for more than 60 years we have been watching over the ability of conventions to protect the rights of the individual and why we will continue to do so. That success story must be better at remembering and telling and being proud of, so that we do not just have a more open debate, no, it must be a debate based on objectivity, on facts and on proportions, remembering all the good examples and stories that clearly overshadow the very few individual cases most often used by the media and politicians to create a completely distorted picture of the importance of human rights. As I started with, I have chosen to focus most on human rights today, but we are also discussing a number of other international cooperation, and here I would like to talk about Nordic co-operation, and I will then devote the last of my speaking time to that. Nordic co-operation is something that is very much at the heart of the alternative. It does, especially because we see it as a super strong platform for raising important political agendas such as the environment and climate. The green transition is one of the agendas that are important in all the Nordic countries, and it is an area where we have usually been pioneering countries and where we still have a huge amount of knowledge and expertise. Therefore, it makes very good sense to make sustainability and green transition to the big joint Nordic project. This applies, among other things, to: for the microplastic problem, which is a huge threat to our environment. Several experts state that for the next 10 years we will be emitting as much plastic as we have emitted over the last 60 years. When you consider how much problems we already have, it is, of course, a message that must be taken very seriously, not least at the thought that we are already witnessing huge plastic areas the size of entire continents floating around the oceans and killing fish and sea creatures. From the point of view of the alternative, we are therefore very positive that the focus of Nordic co-operation is on environmental protection, circular economy and also the mapping of microplastics. That agenda is important and we hope that Nordic co-operation will be able to stick to a progressive agenda and very high ambitions, so that we show the rest of the world that the solutions of the future must be green and sustainable. Our vision for Nordic co-operation is therefore that it will shine up forever as a green frontrunner for community that can inspire the outside world to accelerate the pace of the crucial green transition.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314200247	Thank you. If I heard correctly, it was said to go around in Europe. It is something outside the Rules of Procedure if that is what was said. Rasmus Nordqvist I'm sorry. ) Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314200258	Thank you. I have a question about Russia. As Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist also knows, from when he was in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, that we have a country that is completely indifferent to everything that is adopted in both the OSCE, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and so on. Even court rulings from the Court of Human Rights of the Council of Europe do not matter. So the question is: what are we going to do with a country which, by means of bully practices and with indifference and everything else, disregards everything? There I would like to know what the alternative's answer is. Is it discarding the Council of Europe? Is it a continuation of sanctions, or what has actually been matched? You want to talk about things... I respect that... but at some point you have to talk replaced by action. So what's the action?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314200354	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314200356	It's really hard to just say that we throw them out, and then we get rid of them, and then we think it's gonna be better for that reason. There are, of course, a number of sanctions that can also be imposed in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, where voting rights and so on are precisely taken away, as has been done. I mean, that's the way to go. For the Council of Europe's most important role is precisely that we continue to have a dialogue, that we continue to see each other, and that we continue to talk to each other. After all, the rapporteur knows that some people sometimes meet down there in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, thinking: how am I supposed to be able to have a dialogue with these people? But we are being forced to do so down there, and I think it is important to have such assemblies where we actually meet with people, including people with whom we cannot otherwise understand how we should have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314200447	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it looks as if there are no more rapporteurs. I do not think the SF rapporteur is here. Then it's the Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314200508	I would like to thank you for the speeches you have made here during the debate. As I see it, all the speeches that have been made have confirmed the political interest that exists, both for the Nordics and for the few who have just mentioned it, because there has, as it were, become a consensus that it was not the Nordics that the debate should really be about today, but also for the cooperation of the OSCE, the Baltic Sea Council and the Council of Europe. It is an interest that the government shares and on which we will build. One of the key international tasks for Denmark over the coming year is, as has also been mentioned by several rapporteurs, our Presidency of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe from November this year to May next year. The Presidency is a very important task and it allows us to focus on some of the issues that are important to Denmark. At the same time, it is also a bottom-up task where there are some fixed elements that we have to deliver. We shall be chairman of the other Member States of the Committee of Ministers. That is why we must also deal with the day-to-day issues and events that occur during our term of office. The Presidency will also be able to be felt in Denmark, at least I hope so. We will be responsible for a series of meetings involving incoming politicians and experts from all over Europe. The most important event during the Presidency will be the meeting of Foreign Ministers in Denmark next May. As Foreign Minister, I want Denmark to deliver a well-disclosed and broadly-oriented Presidency. We are well placed to do so with the priorities for the Presidency decided by the government. The priorities relate to the focus on five elements. Firstly, this is the dynamic interpretation of the Convention by the Court of Human Rights, which has also been mentioned several times here today. Secondly, it is equality. It is the involvement of children and young people in democracy; it is the displacement of attitudes and prejudices about people with disabilities; and then it is the fight against torture. These are the five most important elements. These are the five things that we prioritise, and these are strong Danish issues. I look forward to working together on the Presidency with my ministerial colleagues, with ministries, with public authorities, with NGOs and, above all, with the delegation of the Folketing to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. I should also like to mention that I look forward to having a meeting with the Standing Committee of PACE on 24 November 2017 to inform you about our Presidency. I'm looking forward to it. Nordic co-operation will be discussed at a later stage with the relevant minister. That is why not many people have mentioned it. However, I would like to say that as far as Nordic co-operation is concerned, the government in the report has focused on the formal Nordic co-operation in the Nordic Council of Ministers and the cooperation that takes place between the ministers of Nordic co-operation and the many activities taking place in the ten Councils of Ministers. As the report also shows, work on removing barriers to the mobility of goods and persons between the Nordic countries, the so-called border barriers, is still at the heart of Nordic co-operation, which in 2016 has also been through its second reform process in 3 years. I myself have also had the opportunity to discuss some of the specific challenges on, among others, the following issues. one of my first visits abroad, to Stockholm, and I feel that there is a great common interest in continuing that work in a good and constructive spirit. The statement also shows that part of the work of the Nordic Council of Ministers is also directed towards other countries. There is a great focus on branding the Nordic Region and on how Nordic solutions can get into play globally for the benefit of others. growth and exports, and that is good. As far as the Baltic Sea Council is concerned, this year the government has pressed for a resumption of political dialogue. I welcome, although there may have been a slight misunderstanding about this during the debate itself, that it now appears that it is possible to organise a meeting of Foreign Ministers to mark the 25th anniversary of the Baltic Sea Council and that we can then start work on the future of the Council. It is an important forum if we are able to make the right use of it together. The debate has also shown today that there is still a great deal of interest in and support for Denmark's efforts in the OSCE. This emphasizes the importance of the organization. Although the OSCE faces major challenges and is limited in its operation, the OSCE remains a valuable platform for cooperation in the field of security, and OSCE institutions and field missions are making a major and concrete effort in their areas. The Danish support for the OSCE will continue unceasingly. We attach particular importance to supporting OSCE action in Ukraine, for example through the deployment of personnel and support to OSCE institutions, including the ODIHR Election Observation Missions, to which the Parliamentary Assembly also makes an important contribution. So, in the light of the debate, I think I can see that there is certainly a great interest in the Folketing in the issues and the things that have been touched on in the statement, and I would like to thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314201046	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314201050	Thank you for that and thank you for the priorities. We can then deal with what the Presidency has to do. But I also hope that the Minister will come back with me, that this stuffing so many subjects together in a debate in the Folketing will not work, and it will not work at all if I apologize, I say it • the qualified, the responsible ministers are not present. Then you can't discuss it. And it is on purpose that we have not addressed this issue when the Minister for Nordic Cooperation is not here because it is an intolerable situation which I hope will be the last time we have experienced. And then you can divide it into two instead. I would like to hear about priority A, the activist interpretation of human rights, with whom the Minister expects to cooperate in order to find solutions that do not mean greater disadvantages and attacks on human rights than it does for the interests of the Minister. I understand that it is Article 8, which the Minister also finds interesting. After all, it does not matter who you choose as a partner and what compromises you are willing to make in order to get your way.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314201202	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314201204	Thank you for the question. I think we all actually advocate that it is important that we have some international law and law, conventions to deal with. We simply have a fundamental discussion, which was actually touched on very well by the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, namely how best to do it. How can we ensure that this is the case in the future? There are, like two dividing lines here or two ways to go that have become clear in the course of today's debate. One is that they say that we must not question anything, because then we risk opening up Pandora's box, and then things go very wrong. So I guess you'd better shut up and hope it passes. The other way is to say that if we want to ensure that the popular legitimacy of the conventions is maintained in the future, then we need to discuss where the courts almost have their own lives. If you do not do so, you risk undermining legitimacy, popular support, and then you are seriously misplaced. It's hard to tell who's right. It will be a matter of faith in the end, whether it is one way or the other that is the right way. I believe that it is right to choose road two, to go in and have an open and open dialogue on these things, to try to see whether we can do something like this in order to ensure the popular legitimacy of what must be supported so that it remains present.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314201332	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314201335	It's like we're spinning around it again. I kind of asked where the minister thought there was a reasonable majority to make some changes without risking anything to speak Liberal Alliance language. If you want to make an investment and the profits are not in line with the investment at all, you are probably wondering if you should make that investment. The same goes for a debate on changes to some rules if you do not have someone you can work with. I do not expect either Erdogan, Putin or, for that matter, Hungary's leader to play in this, because then there is a very, very high risk that the profits will be all too low in relation to the efforts that the Minister seems to want to make. That's what I'm talking about. Surely we must have some opinions about what the Minister has thought. I guess it's not just such a neat idea that comes out of the air. There must surely be a physical basis from which to work, for example. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-DK_20170314201437	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314201439	In other words, the government has set up a task force in the Ministry of Justice, which is now embarking on the concrete formulation of the priorities, how we are to put it into practice in practice, but it is as if the Enhedslisten here sets it up in such a way that if we do something like this and try to ensure the popular legitimacy or support behind things, we will automatically have to pay to Hungary or Russia or others. I don't see that connection.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314201511	Then it's mr. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314201514	Well, let me try to explain why I'm actually worried. In other words, President Erdogan is tired of the European Court of Human Rights because it prevents him from killing civilians in the eastern part of Turkey because it judges that he should not allow civilians to burn in cellars. President Putin is tired of the European Court of Human Rights because it prevents him from banning homosexual propaganda, as he calls it. And that is how it can be continued: Viktor Orbán, Prime Minister of Hungary, is tired of it because it prevents him from carrying out secret surveillance of civil society organisations. When the Danish Foreign Minister then shows up in this circle and says that the Human Rights Court goes too far, the Foreign Minister thinks that he is helping to strengthen legitimacy, or believes the Foreign Minister that he is helping to share the normative court that we have built up over a very long period of time with the good effect that we have something to pin our criticism on, which actually obliges the other countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314201629	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314201631	I believe in some way that what Enhedslisten is about to do is to give those whom Enhedslisten really does not like a right of veto by saying that there is something that we must not discuss, because then we just risk their influence. But then everything shuts down, and it really is, I think, a bad way of proceeding in politics, that you let yourself be completely guided by what others may have of ambition, so that you must not say anything yourself, because uh, it may be that the others are moving forward. I just don't think you have to deal with this. Basically, you give too much influence to those whom you do not like to have influence. We must dare to raise this debate. I don't think anyone is going to give permission at any time that you can just let civilians burn up in cellars. I do not think that we can in any way create a broad foundation or support for this in Europe. I think we can have a relevant and good discussion about whether the interpretation of the court has gone too far in protecting criminals, which might not have been envisaged from the outset when the conventions we are talking about were written.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314201739	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314201741	So, I would say that if the Foreign Minister is so optimistic, I hope that the Foreign Minister will convene the members of the delegation to the Council of Europe and present a realistic plan for how this is going to happen, because we really need that. I do not think we should underestimate the fact that there are a great many representatives of countries in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. It is my clear impression that governments are by no means interested in the values of the Council of Europe. They only sit there because they are hanged, and that is a problem for them if they are not members of the Council of Europe, and it is a problem for them if they do not follow the decisions taken. Denmark was one of the ten countries that created this organisation, and when we say that there is something wrong with the Court of Human Rights, and when we say that it goes too far, I believe that we are giving a gift to some people in the world to whom we in no way wish to give a gift at this time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314201835	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314201837	My view is so little the opposite. That, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen does by arguing in this way is to give a huge gift to those he does not really want to give a great gift, namely by giving himself and the rest of us a candy that shuts us up. And I think that's a bad idea. I really think this is a bad strategy. I think we should dare to take the discussions up front, directly take them to show that we are also listening to the public concern that is in relation to the corners of these conventions. And if we do not listen to the popular criticism that arises when we see judgments that, in the eyes of the people, really do fall out badly, then we deliberate and undermine the general support for what we agree there should be support for.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314201933	Thank you. Thank you to the Secretary of State. And no one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314201951	The debate is open, and that is Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314202000	I think there are many of us who have tried to return to our car and discover that there is a large, unpleasant parking ticket in the windshield, and every time you think that it really is not right. Many times it is probably us who have held there a little too long or forgot to put down the parking disc, but it also happens that it is actually the parking companies that have been a number for zealous or quite simply made a mistake. In the media, we have been able to follow stories of, for example, guards who have been fined when looking at a patient, even though the guard doctor actually has a valid parking permit. That is why the idea of an independent complaints body that can receive and deal with complaints about unduly issued parking tickets sounds like a good idea, which we in the Social Democratic Party can support immediately. However, we have a number of questions on the specific proposal. We want the Minister to elaborate on the composition, financing and functioning of any Board of Appeal. We want to know whether there is a small limit and we want a debate on why municipal parking is not included in the proposal. As a starting point, we support the idea of an independent appeal body, but we also wish to maintain that, despite new initiatives, citizens must continue to have access to the courts if they wish to do so in relation to a penalty. However, the draft law also contains a number of other elements. Among other things: It is proposed that the municipalities should be deprived of some of their autonomy when it comes to parking policy, and that parking should be legalised by external discounts on, for example, private communal roads. That part of the bill has caused a number of relatively scratchy and critical consultation responses, among others. from KL, the City of Copenhagen and the Cyclist League, fearing for the safety and relevance of cyclists. On the part of the Social Democrats, we will be asking a number of clear and perhaps critical questions on this part when we come to committee work. Perhaps it should be considered in this context whether the draft law might be divided into two: one on the review body and one on the parking rules. The position of the Social Democratic Party on the bill will wait for us to get the answers to the questions that I have briefly referred to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314202210	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Kim Christiansen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314202226	A Board of Appeal, a Board of Appeal, for parking fees we in the Danish People's Party think is a very good thing. Unfortunately, there are stalled vessels within many bodies, and so do parking companies. You can see examples of some parking attendants even being commission-paid, and that can be an excellent incentive to write out a little extra fines. However, this should not affect the citizens, which is why it is excellent that we have this right of appeal. I fully agree with the Social Democrat rapporteur. We would also very much like to look at the fact that the municipal and regional taxes are being introduced and that this is being given the opportunity not only to complain to the municipality or region but also to complain to this board. There is, of course, the point that the ban on parking in outer discounts within a more densely built area is being lifted. Unfortunately, we have seen some unfortunate examples of people being fined for keeping their own land register, where they already pay a high property tax, so it is excellent that we take care of it. We support the proposal, of course, but having said all this, I think that we should also look at the companies that levy parking charges. It is a completely unregulated market. There is no education and there are no rules. At least I think you might have to think about something in this Parliament, i.e. whether it was something you should also look at. But we support the proposal as it stands here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314202400	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314202412	Thank you. The bill here contains a change in the traffic law to ensure more logical and reasonable rules in the parking area and, furthermore, the bill will strengthen the legal certainty of the parking citizens. As the legislation is today, there are elements in the law that unnecessarily complicate the lives of parkers, and we are now taking care of this and changing it for the better. Firstly, it applies to changes in relation to fixed-term parking. Today we see great technological advances in many areas, including transport. This also applies to the parking area, and that is why we are now going to follow up the trends that prevail, so that it is not just the traditional parking disc in the windscreen that is legal. Now it will also be the new technological solutions that are available today, with digital parking discs, etc., that can be used. Secondly, the bill means that in future, as the law is now, the police and the municipality have the right to do so, but this amendment means that the landowners must also be involved in such a decision. We in the Left think it is quite reasonable for the landowners to be involved in their own very local road. Thirdly, it is proposed here to remove the current ban on stopping and parking in the outer debate. I think that is a very central element of this bill. We have seen some grotesque examples of landowners being fined for parking on their own property. It is in my optics deeply provocative to have to pay a fine to park a car or trailer on its own property, and therefore I am pleased that the bill is ending this obvious injustice which is in conflict with the public's sense of justice. Fourthly, it is also proposed that the private parking industry should be required to set up a Board of Appeal. By setting up a Board of Appeal, we will strengthen the legal certainty of citizens. There will now be a guarantee that a disgruntled citizen who feels he has received an unreasonable parking ticket can complain to this Board of Appeal and that, as it is today, he is not obliged to go to the courts. The matter of going to the courts is sometimes a hassle, and it is sometimes expensive, but with this change we are now strengthening the citizens' ability to raise a complaint, and we welcome that. All in all, it is a very good legislative proposal that helps to strengthen the legal certainty of parkers and improve the rules for parking. The Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314202717	Thank you. The next one is sir. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314202736	After all, the draft law contains a number of different elements, as the rapporteurs have already pointed out. The draft law has been met from different points of view and in the various areas by a number of critical consultation responses, which we at least think it is worth noting. About stopping and parking in the outer debate it is worth noting that it is precisely the two large urban municipalities, Copenhagen and Aarhus, that are quite critical of the proposal to lift the ban on parking in the outer debate. After all, it was precisely in urban development that a ban on parking in the outer debate was particularly relevant, one should believe the report on better consumer protection in the parking area, which came in June 2013. It is the reality and also the road safety to which they refer, and hence the possibility of an appropriate use of the road areas, which the two large municipalities actually consider to be hampered by the proposal to lift the ban on parking in outer discounts. It is a little strange that the government is not concerned about the appearance on the roads in this case; it is usually in focus in other contexts. The City of Copenhagen's statement that the argument for lifting the ban on parking in outer discounts, namely the lack of road safety effects, is completely in the fence. That is indeed a relevant objection, since it was never a reason for imposing the ban in 2014. The Ministry of Transport is therefore very skilfully failing to reply to this objection in the consultation note. Probably this part of the bill has come out because of publicity in the media of some relatively isolated cases, such as: Aarhus Municipality also points out that TV 2 even had to correct it in one case at least. Of course, it may seem grotesque that a landowner can get a parking ticket to park on his own cadastral, but how large is the actual extent of the problem? Has it been investigated in the Ministry of Transport? I think that is a relevant question to ask, quite apart from, as the City of Copenhagen points out, that it is actually easy, fast and cheap for a landowner to be allowed to park on his own property in places that may be described as an outer discount. As regards traffic types on private common roads, yes, as can be said, it is therefore a question of the municipalities not being able to introduce car-free zones in the future, as is the general example of pedestrian streets, yes, without first obtaining the consent of the landowners of the private common road. In other words, we do not think it is by chance that it is precisely car-free zones that are highlighted in the comments. We believe that this proposal has been made to make it difficult to establish a car-free zone for the municipalities that would like it. As I read the proposal and comments, even a temporary zone cannot be established. be a car-free Sunday, which some have operated with the possibility of • without having to go through a comprehensive procedure with consultation of the landowners of a private common road. And although it is always good to take the citizens into decisions, we now believe that this is made by a relatively car-loving government which does not want car driving unnecessarily restricted and which considers any restriction on driving as an evil, admittedly, necessary. I could also mention speed limits, registration fees or car-free days in certain zones as examples. On the handover of parking control by the Road Directorate on state roads, I would say that if this can help solve some of the problems that we have seen and heard about lately, for example. at Hylkedal rest stop, where East drivers waiting for the next order and therefore should not be in the country at all in reality, use rest places for long-term parking and overnight stay for several days and in violation of the rules, yes, Enhedslisten is on it. Regarding the Board of Appeal, I would like to say that the Enhedslisten has, of course, supported the creation of a Board of Appeal in the field of postal charges. As recently as the implementation of the ADR in Danish legislation in April 2015, we called for a Board of Appeal, as the new de minimis limit of DKK 1,000. would mean that most complaints about postal charges could not be dealt with by the Consumer Complaints Board, since they typically amount to DKK 750. Inadmissible drivers have therefore been referred to the courts, which certainly means that many are giving up their case, as there is an expectation that it is relatively expensive and takes a long time. I have to admit, however, that I have actually come into doubt after reading the answers to the hearings. I think that the three hearings from the Danish Association of Judges, the Association of Magistrates and the Court of Justice have made an impression on the problem of the length of proceedings, but also on the cost of those who complain. Apparently, some myths have been created about how expensive it is to sue for a parking charge in the courts, and also about how long it takes. I think that a little more information on small-scale procedures in the Code of Criminal Procedure might help to correct myth formation. Moreover, there is no doubt that the industry expects the establishment of a Board of Appeal in this area to result in a host of complaints and reimbursements of large-scale postal charges, and I should not really mind if that were the case. I would just like to say in conclusion that we could also have a desire to divide up the legislative proposal, and we also reserve our position until we have been through the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314203316	A brief comment was made by Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314203321	Thank you for that, President. Well it is well known that Enhedslisten for one or a strange reason has an aversion against cars No!) and it may immediately surprise many, because cars are one of the most green ones that exists. In the longer term, in particular, cars will be completely green, so it is a little incomprehensible about this resistance to cars. I understand, too, sir. Henning Hyllested's rapporteur said that you are a little excited about these car-free zones and perhaps even car-free Sundays. But Mr. Henning Hylllested is not that it is a problem when, for example, you... in Copenhagen Municipality has tried with initiatives with car-free Sundays, which will mean that citizens who have legally bought a car, for example, will not be able to return to their residence at Frederiksberg if they come from their summer house? Is it not a problem that we suddenly want to prevent the freedom of movement of a particular mode of transport, namely cars?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314203418	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314203419	Yeah, if that's what you wanted to do, for example. a car-free Sunday or a car-free zone. That is not the intention, as I understand it, of the proposals I have seen, on the contrary. In fact, I think it is a good idea for a municipality to say that they want to help make their municipality green and that they also want to help combat the emissions of particles, the emissions of CO2 We think that should be an opportunity for a municipality. With the proposal contained in the draft law now, it is quite clear that we are trying to make it so difficult for a municipality to take action to do so here. That is also what I believe is the purpose. I do not believe that it is so much the involvement of the citizen that is at the heart of the government; I really do believe that it is more the prevention of a municipality in, for example, a town. To make a car-free zone, car-free Sundays, I don't know.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314203515	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314203517	I'm very much in agreement with sir. Henning Hyllested in that it is important that we have greener transport and also that we have less pollution. That's why I'm gonna ask Mr. Henning Hylllested, if not he agrees that cars are on their way to becoming extremely green, and that when we look 10-15 years ahead, they are actually 100 percent green. Then they run on hydrogen, biogas, electricity and so on, so it's kind of a weird debate. But I would like to ask again about the issue of car-free areas: is it not reasonable, if you suddenly want to create a car-free area on a private common road, that the citizens who live in such an area should be heard about it before you simply introduce it so that they cannot use their car?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314203600	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314203601	Certainly, and I have not seen any suggestion that they should not be heard either. But it is quite clear that the procedure proposed here means that it is really going to be difficult. I think it is KL who asks: is it all the landowners who need to be asked, or can you ask the landowners' association? The answer in the consultation note is: yes, they are all landowners. Okay, it may be that the landowners' association can be asked, but there will be a single grudge between saying: No, no, you can't; you can't do that either in the board or at the general meeting. So I can imagine that this can drag on, let's just say years before you can get through with your ban.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314203642	Thank you, sir. Henning Hylllested. We move on to Mr. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314203648	Thank you. In our view, the draft law here contains measures which significantly improve citizens' legal certainty. This is particularly the case with the creation of a Board of Appeal, where citizens can complain about parking charges imposed by private individuals, because this will provide citizens with much greater security in an often imperceptible mess of parking rules. It is probably difficult to find a driver who has not somehow tried to be in a powerless situation or has heard of others who have been. Finally, the draft law will also lift the ban on parking in outer discounts, as we have just heard, in densely built areas. It will put an end to the absurd situations in which citizens can be fined for keeping on their own property if their reason happens to be an outermost discount. The Liberal Alliance is happy to support the bill here, which abolishes foolish prohibitions and increases citizens' legal certainty.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314203753	Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Roger Matthiesen, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314203800	Thank you for that, President. In relation to Bill No. L 141 on the amendment of the Road Traffic Code, the previous rapporteurs have very well examined the proposal here, i.e. on the possible amendments. The alternative is to improve citizens' legal certainty by setting up an independent private complaints board on parking charges. I also note that it is interesting for both DF and Enhedslisten to ask whether municipal and regional taxes should not also be included in this Board of Appeal and whether there should be a de minimis limit, which the SF's rapporteur also spoke about. In relation to car-free zones and whether the consent of neighbouring landowners should be assumed here, we are interested in knowing whether this really means that car-free zones can be prevented. If that is the case, we naturally take a rather critical view of it in relation to both the environment and pollution etc., for example. tourism and accessibility in the city and on land. We also have a number of questions which I think I will save for committee reading. It is acting, for example. on how many objections need to be raised. For private common roads, is it just one citizen who has to say no and then can it prevent it? And in relation to the extreme debate, it must also be dealt with in committee, in other words, what it means for road safety and accessibility. There may be some data collected in relation to it since 2014 when the bill came into force. I think those are the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314203956	Then we say thank you and move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Sanne Bjørn, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314204002	Thank you. This bill consists of a number of elements, and I will take them individually, because we are dealing with them a little differently. The first element is the Board of Appeal. Here we want to make it easier for citizens to have access to the rightfulness of a parking charge, and we can say that it is really nice when the citizen gets easier to do so. The consumer Ombudsman has also supported the proposal here, and it is worth noting that the Association of Judges announces that it will neither cost nor simplify the process of conducting the case by a private Board of Appeal rather than conducting the case before the city court as a small matter. That's some of it, sir. Henning Hyllested is also talking about, and that is one of the elements that we might be a little sceptical about about solving the real problem. We are in favour of the intention, in other words, that it should be easier for the citizen to complain, but we think that we can discuss it with, for example, the committee procedure. our courts to know whether there is more transparency and simplification of it. It might perhaps be possible for uniform signs with information from municipal and private parking spaces to make it easier. There could be various options that we would very much like to discuss before we can join. Then there is a change in the rules on the prohibition of certain types of road on private common roads, where the consent of the police to create these car-free zones must then be obtained and, as a new thing, the consent of the landowners concerned must also be granted. Here we are somewhat more sceptical, because it is particularly important for vulnerable road users and for the municipalities' ability to create walking zones or child-friendly areas, etc. One of the consultation answers is also about how many of these landowners have to agree to it so that it can be done. Is that all of them? In any case, I imagine that you will have a completely different process in the municipalities when you want to change the nature of an area. We are sceptical, not because we do not want to take account of urban carism, but more because we want to see the possibility of creating areas that are car-free as well. We would also like to discuss this with the rapporteur in committee. Then there is the question of parking in the outer debate, where the ban is proposed to be lifted in more densely built areas. Here I understand that the Minister of Transport believes that what it is now has the unintended consequence that a citizen may risk being charged a parking charge in order to keep on his own property when the ground constitutes an outer discount. We can see the sense in that. But since it is only the police who can issue a p-ban there, it will be difficult again for example. It is not appropriate for vehicles parked in densely built areas to move onto the roads and therefore to endanger vulnerable road users. We are opposed to that part of the proposal. Of course, it could change in committee if there were some arguments or if we could narrow down some of the areas in a way that would benefit vulnerable road users. Then there is the question of fixed-term parking, and there we are always in favour of modernising and using technological solutions that make it easier and more flexible. Parking control on state roads: It is of course particularly interesting how to solve this resting area problem position, because it is not intended that a rest area should be a campsite over long periods of time. If the intention is to solve some of the challenges you have, with repeated nights spent by drivers, we are, of course, prepared to look at it, but if the intention is to allow municipalities to demand more money, that is not something we can support. So that is also one of the things we would like to discuss in committee. So, overall, there are some good intentions in some of the elements of the proposal, but there is also some in the proposal that we would like to discuss, and our position on the proposal therefore awaits these discussions too.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314204411	We thank Sanne Bjørn and go to the next rapporteur, who is Mr. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314204426	Indeed, it is surprising that for so many years the citizens have put up with charges being imposed without having the opportunity to test the correctness of an easily accessible Board of Appeal. We are in favour of this possibility being introduced now, just as we of course think that both municipal and possible regional taxes should be tested in the same place. We also think it is a good thing that the absurdity that some citizens have been prevented from being able to park on their own land register, when it is at the same time an outer discount, is being corrected. Perhaps a solution to the particular situation which Copenhagen points out could be found in the course of the discussion of the proposal in the future. I would say that we are rather sceptical about the possibility of restrictions on the car-free environments, and we will be aware of this during the committee procedure, and we will have looked into what the consequences for rest places will be.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314204541	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314204557	We really appreciate this bill and we support it, of course. In particular, the fact that there is now a Board of Appeal for publicly available private parking spaces is urgently needed. There must also be proper conditions in this area so that citizens do not run the risk of getting fines that they cannot do anything about. We also support the other elements of the draft law, even when it comes to this, with the possibility of being able to park on one's own property, even if it is adjacent to a road. So, all in all, this is a very good proposal. We are not in favour of more obstacles for drivers than they need to be. By the way, we are also very fond of green cars in relation to the discussion between the Left and the Enhedslisten. Although I do not know whether I will go quite as far as the rapporteur of the Left and say that cars are one of the most green ones there is, we think that this is a necessary mode of transport and that we should not bother citizens with unnecessarily tight rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314204655	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's the Minister of Transport, Building and Housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314204704	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their comments on the draft law. Then I would like to say something about the parking charge board. With the bill, the government wants to first meet the many drivers who feel that they have been wrongly charged a parking charge by a private parking company every year. Many drivers have expressed their frustration at the lack of opportunities to complain about a charge to an independent party. It is this wish that we now wish to meet, that is to say. the possibility of complaining about parking charges imposed by private parking companies. I will fulfil this wish by imposing on the parking industry an obligation to set up a Board of Appeal which will be able to deal with complaints about taxes imposed on motorists by parking in public private areas. In this context, it is proposed that it would be a requirement to be able to impose a charge, that the parking operator imposing the charge should first be registered with the Board of Appeal and, secondly, should also clearly provide guidance on the possibility of appeal to the Board of Appeal. If these two requirements are not met, the driver can disregard the parking charge because it will simply not be valid. We will put this part of the bill into effect on 1 July 2018, so that the parking industry has time to organise the establishment and upcoming operation of the board, as well as the individual parking operators will have time to adjust to the new registration requirements for the board as well as guidance on the right of appeal to do so. The establishment and operation of the Board of Appeal will, of course, not be free of charge, but as the proposal indicates, it will be the industry itself that will be responsible for financing. A slightly higher price for parking or alternatively higher parking charges is therefore also to be expected. However, I would like to stress that it is my clear expectation that it should be possible for the industry to establish and operate a complaints board without burdening drivers with severe tax increases. In view of the expectations regarding the functioning of the Board of Appeal, let me state that it is not the intention, from the outset, that I, as Minister, should issue detailed guidelines for the Board of Appeal: this is also reflected in the comments on the draft law. But it is clear that, contrary to my expectations, the name does not work according to the intention of the bill, that is. According to standard for such Boards of Appeal, the draft law provides for the possibility of laying down detailed rules on the operation of the Board. The same applies to the supervision of the Board of Appeal. But I don't expect it to be necessary. I basically take the view that if this can be resolved without public intervention and detailed public regulation, it is clearly preferable. I therefore expect the parking industry to fulfil its responsibilities and establish a well-functioning Board of Appeal, which will finally give drivers a much-needed additional opportunity to complain in this area. If I now mention the need to give drivers an extra opportunity to complain, then I am also aware that there has been a desire that the Board of Appeal should now at the same time be able to deal with complaints about parking charges imposed by the municipalities. In this context, let me mention that a working group set up by the Ministry of Justice in a report issued in 2013 assessed the issue. At that time, the conclusion was that the legal certainty of citizens in relation to redress procedures for charges imposed by the municipalities was sufficient and that there is therefore no need for a Board of Appeal here. It is clear that we can easily discuss whether the possibility of redress in relation to municipal parking charges can be improved, and I am, of course, prepared to look into that. But it is not part of this bill and cannot be prepared in time to be included in this bill. The draft law concerns a Board of Appeal set up by and financed by the private parking industry, and this Board of Appeal will therefore not automatically be able to be extended to the municipalities. I would therefore urge that we first address what has been prepared and presented to Parliament, namely to improve the means of redress in the private sector. Let me add, then, that the municipalities are subject to the administrative law. It is the administrative court that decides how municipalities should deal with a complaint about a parking charge. A private appeal board would therefore have to apply a different legal principle in assessing whether the municipalities comply with the rules applicable in the field of administrative law. A private appeal board for private parking fees has to find out if the tax is in line with private contract law, so these are two different sizes: the private contract law and the administrative right to which the municipalities are subject. And an appeal board, which was to be both expert on one side and on the other, would probably at first be too ambitious a mouthful. In addition to the creation of a Board of Appeal, it is proposed that the general ban on parking in outer discounts should be removed from the Road Traffic Code. In the view of the government, the ban has led to the totally unacceptable situation in which private landowners may be at risk of obtaining a tax in order to keep on their own land in cases where, at the same time, the land constitutes an outer rebate to the road. This is not a fair legal situation for landowners who happen to have a piece of land which, according to the Road Traffic Act, at the same time constitutes an outer discount. It should not be necessary for people to feel compelled to shield their own ground from the road to make sure that they do not get a parking charge to park illegally on their own property. I also find it more reassuring from the point of view of legal certainty for motorists that, if the bill is adopted in the Folketing, road authorities will still be able to ban stopping and parking in the outer debate on specific routes by signposting. It can, for example, be done. be on the specific road sections where particular road safety considerations justify the maintenance of a parking ban in the outer discount. It is only the general ban on parking in the outer debate that we are abolishing. When the parking ban is shown by a concrete sign on a concrete road section instead of by a clause in the Road Traffic Act, it is also significantly easier for drivers to know whether they can park their car legally. In addition, the government proposes that the many landowners on private common roads should have a better legal position in local decisions to ban traffic types on private common roads. It is not reasonable for municipalities to be able to make a significant change in a private common road without obtaining the consent of the landowners on the road affected by the decision. With the legislative proposal, we are introducing a requirement that both the police and the landowners concerned must give their consent before a decision on, for example, one. the restriction of movement can be taken. In addition, the proposal also aims to ensure the future of the rules on fixed-term parking. In the Government's view, it is out of step with the technological possibilities in 2017 that the rules for fixed-term parking today refer only to parking discs. In order to keep up with developments, we therefore propose that the rules become more spacious so that, in addition to parking discs, it will be possible to use other technical solutions to indicate the starting parking time. This does not mean that drivers should be the first to throw away their parking discs, because they will still be able to be used as before, but we will ensure with the proposal that it will be possible to use other technical solutions within the framework of the Road Traffic Code. Finally, it is proposed that control of compliance with the rules on stopping and parking on the state road network should also be carried out in the future by, for example, the Vejdirektoratet (Vejdirektoratet) as State Road Authority. The proposal ensures that the Road Directorate, as the State Road Authority, has the same powers as municipal road authorities in relation to the parking control task. In conclusion, I look forward to the further examination of the proposal and, of course, I am ready to answer any questions that the members of the committee might have on the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314205558	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314205603	It is because, in his speech, the Minister himself made a great deal of progress in setting up a Board of Appeal and the fact that the Ministry would not interfere with it. At least that is how I understood it, and I think that is what the draft law and the comments on it show. But isn't that really the problem with the part of the draft law on the Board of Appeal, because in reality it is left entirely to a • one has to say rebellious industry, which hasn't been able to figure out how to set up a Board of Appeal until now? I note that, as a starting point, the Minister will not even supervise a Board of Appeal if it otherwise gets up. Somewhere I think it is a very, very wide-ranging trust that we are showing here an industry which, as I said, has not been able to find its own way of setting up a Board of Appeal, and I could really be a little concerned about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314205709	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314205711	There is, of course, the very significant difference that if the industry does not set up a Board of Appeal which is satisfactory from the Minister's point of view and from the parties involved in voting through this bill, the industry will not be able to charge private parking fees from 1 July 2018. So that's probably the reason they're going to set up such a private Board of Appeal now. And if it is not satisfactory, they will be told, and then they will have to make a different kind of Board of Appeal with a different composition. But because this has also worked for others, I am now quite confident that the industry will create an independent and independent Board of Appeal and appoint the right people to settle the disputes in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314205800	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314205802	I have, of course, noted the use of the quite large crib, which you will come after them if they do not correct, but I think the Minister is making it difficult for himself from the start, because you will not even interfere in how they shape their statutes and their rules in this Board of Appeal. After all, there is a hearing answer from the Court Association, which says that it would be clever to say that a private body would have to be approved under Section 6 of the Consumer Complaints Act, because it would then also be possible to use Section 15 of the Consumer Complaints Act and Section 361 of the Code of Procedure. It was also a way of interfering with it, so it comes on, if I may say so, on the right track.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314205847	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314205849	It is quite clear in the draft law that if a satisfactory composition of the Board of Appeal and a satisfactory way of operating is not made, then the Minister can take action against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314205902	I would like to make a brief comment on Mr Seligman's report. Roger Matthisen, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314205906	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It was mentioned by some of the rapporteurs, and my first question is: would the Minister be interested in dividing the proposal into two or more proposals?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314205922	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314205925	I have heard that there are some parties who would like to have that, and I will think about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314205932	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314205934	Thank you. The second question is this: with regard to parking in the outer debate, there was a little talk of comprehension, which is what the two largest cities mention more than road safety. I did not hear whether the Minister had addressed the question put by the Enhedslisten's rapporteur that this was precisely the main point in relation to comprehension.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314210007	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314210010	Well, what is the case is that a general ban on parking on the outer road is replaced by the fact that the road authority in question can impose a parking ban if there are different reasons for it, and that can be done, for example. be specific road safety considerations that may justify it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314210028	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Kim Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314210031	Thank you. It is clear from the proposal that these private parking companies must be required to make such a Board of Appeal. As I have been informed, there is an inter-branch organisation within private parking companies which includes three companies, but I am aware that there are some thirty players in this market. How will the Minister ensure that all players on the market are part of such a Board of Appeal?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314210106	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314210111	I expect the industry to find out for itself, and it is clear that if large parts of the industry come to me as minister and say that in what has been invented here, only half of the industry has been allowed to join, and the rest of us have been excluded, then it will come into force that I can judge that this is not done in the right way. So, of course, I expect the industry to be inclusive in its attempt to create an appeal board in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314210136	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314210138	[Sound emission]... Could it be such a part of a future licensing scheme for the entire private parking sector, companies that exercise this control? Could it be part of the authorisation to do so, that you are a member of a Board of Appeal?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314210155	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314210157	It is not a thought that I have had the opportunity to delve properly into at this time, but it may be that I will have the opportunity to do so soon.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314210208	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Transport, Building and Housing Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314210229	The debate is open. Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314210237	Today we are discussing a bill, L 142, which aims to implement the political agreement of 30 June 2016 on driving in hash affected condition and on alcolocks in connection with penalties for alcohol or alcohol driving. It is an agreement of which the Social Democratic Party, like the rest of the Danish Parliament's parties, is part, and that is why we also support the bill. For the Social Democrats, it is important that we continue to sanction hash driving, because we must, of course, work to reduce the number of people killed and injured in traffic, but we have also thought that the current level of sanctions for first-time driving with a very small amount of hashish or THC in blood has been disproportionately. With the bill, therefore, we are changing the sanctions for hashish driving in the blood. The penalty for driving hash or THC in the blood should in future increase in line with the levels of hash in the blood, just as we know it from the blood limits. The starting point has been that the sanctions for hashish driving should to some extent follow the guidelines that we also know from the drunken driving regime. However, we believe that the penalty for driving with a small amount of hashish in your blood, the amount of hashish corresponding to the level of hashish you have when you are between 0.2 and 0.5 per thousand, must be punished more severely than if you are affected in the same way by alcohol. With the bill, we are also changing the voluntary arrangement for the use of alcolocks, in addition to conditions for driving with THC in the blood. Today, with the voluntary alcola scheme, the last year can be changed by an unconditional disqualification of the driver's right as a consequence of a minimum of 3 years of drunk driving for 2 years. But the present system has not been successful. Since the scheme entered into force, only 24 persons have chosen to make use of the scheme and thus have had no real effect on prevention or recurrence. Therefore, in future, we will make it possible to change the whole unconditional disqualification of the driver's right as a consequence of three-year drunk driving to drive with alkolås in the car for three years. However, we maintain that it must still be optional for the convicted driver to drive with alkolås. If the driver does not opt for the alcola system, the driver's right is denied as hitherto unconditional. However, in cases where the driver concerned has caused personal injury or has exposed anyone to specific serious danger in connection with the alcohol offence, the alcolock cannot be used as a full alternative to an unconditional disqualification for reasons of legal sense. We think that is also sensible, it also follows from the agreement. The Social Democratic Party supports the proposal, as I said, and we look forward to further discussion in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314210538	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Roger Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314210540	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. The rapporteur speaks of the Social Democrats working to reduce the number of accidents, which is why a distinction must be made between driving cars and driving cannabis. Does the rapporteur know how many accidents there have been and are in connection with hashish driving and why the problem here should be greater in relation to alcohol, motor vehicle driving, and therefore should be penalised more severely?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314210614	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314210615	No, as rapporteur, I have no specific knowledge of what the difference is. But I suppose that if you are affected by THC in your blood, as well as if you are affected by alcohol, then you drive a car in less ways than if you are not affected. That is, of course, why we want a penalty regime, and now we have introduced a more proportional penalty regime with a step-by-step penalty, and I think that in every way is sensible.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314210647	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314210649	Thank you. I hear the rapporteur say that the rapporteur assumes. But there's a lot of evidence behind this bill here, among other things. research and results known from Norway, where they have borders to which they have established and analysed, as has been done in the Netherlands. Then we're not even on the same footing, even if we should. Evidence behind these research results tells us that we could equalize the flow of motor vehicles with THC driving. So my question to the Social Democrats is really just: the rapporteur says in his speech that it must be punished more than equal to 0.2 and 0.5 per thousand in alcohol driving. Why does it have to be punished harder? As far as I am concerned, this sounds a bit like a moralism, but can the rapporteur elaborate on why?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314210742	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur who answers.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314210744	Thank you. I think I may have misunderstood the first question. Now I understand what Mr. Roger Matthisen thinks. I assume, with the position expressed by the rapporteur, that the rapporteur believes that it is positive that we are, after all, taking a step towards equality between THC and alcohol. When we do not take the full step, which I think is sensible, it is because we are on our way on uncertain ground here in Denmark. We haven't done this before. That is why I think it makes sense for us to introduce a certain precautionary principle with regard to the movement of THC in blood, and that is why I am glad that we are in the country where we are in that political agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314210819	Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Kim Christiansen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314210832	In this agreement from June 2016 we give an opportunity to have quite small amounts of THC in your blood. I would like to make it quite clear that smoking hashish is illegal, so the easiest way to avoid conflicting with traffic law is just not to. So when the Danish People's Party has agreed to this at all, it is because we also have something called medical cannabis, and there may be some limits. And by the way, when the expertise says that we have to make some low cut, we've agreed to this at 0.2. So that's the way it is. This does not change the situation and I think it is also important to stress that there is still a zero tolerance in terms of driving and all other drugs. With regard to the second part of the bill on alco-locks, we must note that the scheme that we actually thought was very good has been used by 24 people. It cannot be said to be overwhelming, and that is enough because it lies at the end of the course of serving. That is why it probably does not have much effect when you have already spent two years without a driver's licence and perhaps already lost your job and so on. etc. So what we're doing here now and doing from day one is saying that you can change your disclaimer for driving with alkolås. Well, that's kind of like the ankle bracelet scheme. There is no drunk driving that can be excused but, as the previous rapporteur said, this is not the case here, of course, if you have been driving crazy and killed other people or in any way caused harm to anyone. But we support this proposal. We're part of it. I think it's fair that we keep this THC limit of 0.2 per thousand or equivalent to 0.2 per thousand alcohol, because, as others have said, this is the new soil we are entering here, and we would like to be on the very safe side. This is about road safety. As a starting point, the use of hashish is illegal under the criminal code, but then you have to go somewhere else. However, with regard to road safety, we are in agreement with this agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314211104	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Roger Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314211106	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I think it was very far-sighted of our then Minister for Transport, sir. Hans Christian Schmidt, that he rightly chose to say that one thing is the legal practice that must lie over with the Committee on Legal Affairs, with regard to legalisation, etc. Cannabis, and another thing is what is all about transport. And the evidence behind the research results is, of course, that you are fully capable of driving at the same level as if you have a degree of blood flow up to a certain limit. So I have a question. The rapporteur talks about the illegal use of hashish. Today there are no documented cases of anyone ever dying from smoking cannabis, but there are thousands of people dying every year from alcohol and cigarettes. I would like to try to understand the rapporteur's position on this, i.e. that we should just not do it and that it is fair not to equate it entirely.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314211215	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314211217	I think that if I got 15 minutes of speaking time, I couldn't convince Mr. Roger Matthisen says that smoking hash is something you shouldn't do. But the whole debate that is being brought up with the question of what is healthy and whether alcohol is dangerous and something like that, I think, belongs to the health rapporteurs. That is where the debate is to be held. This is about how much you can have of the substance in your blood and then still drive a car safely. That's what this bill is all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314211251	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314211253	Thank you. I understand. The rapporteur is right, because perhaps we should take the debate at a different level. However, it was the rapporteur himself who brought it up, that is to say, simply not. And then I'm just interested to understand what's behind it in the rapporteur's speech... that you just don't have to do that. As I understand it, there is also a freedom project in the Danish People's Party's policy, which is that we, as citizens, should have the freedom to act as we believe to be right. So what is behind the rapporteur's words that hashish should be avoided?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314211329	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314211331	What I just so quietly noticed was that if you want to be absolutely sure not to get into conflict with this, you can basically not smoke hashish. When we have opened up a little, a little lobe, it is also because there is a discussion about medical cannabis. So that's really just what I said.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314211349	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. We move on to Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314211400	Thank you. This evening we will make a decision. No, we do not, because we will have to vote on it later. But I don't think it's going to be adopted, as there is an agreement among all the Danish Parliament's parties from 30 June 2016 to do two things, namely relax the penalty for driving in hash affected condition, or THC-influenced condition, which it must be right to do, and then to increase access to the use of alcolocks. We are introducing a stepping stone model with this bill, that is, a model that we also know from the liquor area. The more affected you are, the harder the punishment is. And then we also amend the proposal in the voluntary scheme for the use of alcolocks, so that we can now run the entire three-year alcolock period, instead of, as was the case in the past, using alcolocks only in the last year of a conditional three-year disclaimer. It was, as the previous rapporteur for the Danish People's Party said, no unconditional success, since only twenty-one people used the scheme. So we expect that the scheme will now be used much more. Perhaps I should like to thank the previous Minister for Transport a little unconventionally, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Hans Christian Schmidt, who carried this through. And when you hear the various opinions in this Chamber about hashish and the use of hashish, then it is quite impressive that we managed to reach a settlement. I would also like to thank the Attorney General and the national courts, who have delivered some quite excellent hearings, which have also led to changes in the law itself. The law is not 100% as we would have liked to have seen it. This is often the case with a settlement. We would have liked there to be complete parallelism between drunk driving, as we might call it, and hash driving. There isn't. It is still the case that one is being punished, even if the influence one has is quite, quite low and is not, as it were, a danger to traffic. But we couldn't agree on that, and then we took it as far as we could agree, and I think that's really fine. It is a fine and good political compromise that shows what we can do when we want and when we work together. But in future we will ensure that typically young people who have smoked hashish perhaps 3 or 4 days ago and are not affected, but it can still be measured away in the blood, do not get the unconditional disqualification of the driving licence for 3 years. So you can just get a clip on the driver's license. I wonder if there are a lot of people who are looking forward to having a milder sanction, because some of the cases we saw before were, for example, about apprentices who were dependent on having a driving licence and who lost not only the driving licence but also their apprenticeship. That was not very appropriate, and it was not proportional at all. So it is a fine law that we pass, and I think it is impressive that we could succeed in bringing all of us together.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314211708	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314211721	This was an excellent speech by the rapporteur, which Jan E. Jørgensen just made. I could hardly have said it better myself, so I'm going to repeat part of it, as Jan E. Jørgensen said, it will of course just be in a bit of other words. In the Enhedslisten, we are extremely pleased to be involved in the political agreement that forms the basis for this bill. This is something we in the Enhedslisten have been fighting for for many years, and I have been dealing with it since I joined the Danish Parliament, and before me have koryphæer like Line Barfod and Pernille Skipper for that matter also fought with this, but it fell in my lot to conclude the agreement behind the bill. I would also like to congratulate the former Minister for Transport, Hans Christian Schmidt, for going to the chunk here and getting this agreement the country, and although it was not quite as good as we would like it to be, it is certainly a good step in the right direction. After all, we have always opposed the use of the traffic code, as it has been in it, for the fight against drugs without petty distinctions as to whether road safety was in danger. Finally, it has come to the realization that it is road safety that is crucial. In fact, we are not leaving with this bill zero tolerance when it comes to driving with THC in blood, but we are leaving the penalty regime, which was and still is completely out of proportion, which has led to people who have not been at risk of road safety having lost their driving licence unconditionally for three years, with the consequence that some people have lost jobs and apprenticeships and have been unduly affected. The penalty regime is now becoming a step model, as we know it from drunk driving, and the penalties follow roughly the same level of punishment, but with the clear exception that we are extremely annoyed in the Enhedslisten that with the bill we do not in fact create full agreement between drunk driving and hash driving, since we are introducing an extra step in the penalties for hash driving, which corresponds to between 0.2 per thousand and 0.5 per thousand if it had been alcohol. And this happens with the Norwegian law as inspiration, but you forget about the middle bill, it can be said that in Norway you actually have this extra step for drunk driving, so there is full consistency and equality in the brother country. So we are not achieving that here in Denmark. In Denmark we get the grotesque situation that it is free to drive alcohol affected up to a maximum of 0.5, while you are only free from hashish driving up to what is equal to 0.2 per thousand, despite the fact that after all evidence the effect is not greater for hashish than it is for alcohol. As I saw the negotiations, it was especially the young Social Democrats who were in favour of us having this extra step, supported by the Danish People's Party, as Mr. Kim Christiansen pointed out. And I have to say that maybe it's not for sir. Kim Christiansen, but perhaps for the young Social Democrats a gap in their upbringing. There have simply been too few fat people fired while you were growing up. Of course, we welcome the fact that there will no longer be an unconditional withdrawal of the driving licence until the equivalent of 1.2 per thousand if it is alcohol has been used. And, of course, we hope to get through a change in the law when we have to evaluate it after two years. With regard to the amendment of the Alcolocks Act, the Enhedslisten has full support for it. We said, even when the law was adopted, and have repeated it many times later, that we were sceptical as to whether the law would work as intended, and referred in this connection to the Swedish system, which, after all, has replaced its unconditional disqualification with alcolocys, in fact one to one. The Danish system has not been successful, as many have pointed out, since very few have taken advantage of it, which of course indicates that the incentive has simply been too low and that it has also been too expensive. This is partly corrected by the proposal, since it is now also possible to exchange your disqualification with alcola for the same period of time as the disclaimer. There is no doubt that this will prevent many from losing their jobs, and this will mean that mobility in relation to family and social networks will be maintained. We believe that it is now a success, and with the falling prices of alco-locks, we must also hope that the cost problem will also be solved along the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314212210	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314212217	Thank you. To a certain extent, the current rules on the use of hashish in blood impose penalties that are not proportional to the offence. We have already heard about this, among other things. because the amount of the active substance THC in the blood may in some cases exceed the established limit value long after the effect has disappeared. In other words, this means sanctioning behaviour that does not have road safety consequences. It is this injustice that the draft law here is going to end, and we would like to support it in the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314212256	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Roger Matthisen, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314212304	Thank you for that, President. We are dealing here with L 142, proposal for a law amending the Road Traffic Code (change of sanctions for driving in the THC affected condition and of rules on alcolocks), and I would like to start by correcting some of the rapporteurs, because this is not just about hash driving. It's about THC, because you can smoke more than weed, you can smoke cannabis, pot etc. Having said that, this is a historic bill that has been tabled, and again I should only like to congratulate the former Minister for Transport, Hans Christian Schmidt, for having been able to bring together a Parliament to be progressive in relation to an equality between alcohol and THC. That we didn't make it all the way, we're in the alternative really, really sorry. But this is a good step on the way, and we hope, of course, that all parties are ready to back them up fully when you have some more evidence and knowledge as this law comes into force. I really want to dwell a little more on it. Because if this had been a trial, I would have said that I would have liked it as Annex A. This is a group of researchers who in 2010 took on the task of looking at what is actually the socio-economic cost of drugs versus alcohol versus tobacco, and the largest and most subservient graph in their study showed that it was alcohol. Then came heroin, crack, meth, cocaine, tobacco, amphetamine, and only then came cannabis. What they were focusing on was: What is the harm you do to others? What damage is done to oneself, to one's society, to one's work, etc.? I think it is extremely interesting to look at what the socio-economic costs really are. We don't know any cases where some people have died directly from just smoking a joint once in a while. So I also agree with Mr Enhedslisten's remark to S that they may have had a training that can be corrected a little. In relation to alcolocks, we are clearly also in favour of the bill, which makes it more attractive to use this scheme, which must of course have a preventive effect on those who have now broken the law in relation to driving in the alcoholic state. So I think this is quite clearly going to have a good and preventive and resocialising effect. We certainly hope so. So, on the whole, the alternative can agree to the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314212620	There are just a few brief comments, first from Mr. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314212622	Thanks for a nice speech. I'm just gonna ask sir. Roger Matthisen, what he puts in the word progressive. Because I often hear it used as such an adjective, which the Alternative uses on things that they are in favour of, and I do not know whether that is the case because an adjective is missing. Because I can tell you something is conservative. If you are a member of the Left or of the Liberal Alliance, you can say that something is liberal, and if you are a socialist, you can say that something is socialist. But if you are from the Alternative, what are you actually using as adjectives? Is it then in this context that one says that something is progressive when one is in favour of it? Because normally we use the term as being progress-friendly. And I do not know if there is anything particularly progressive about changing the level of punishment for a particular offence. I don't quite understand the context. That's all I wanted to ask.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314212709	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314212710	I do not know whether the President will also elaborate on the word progressively. But thank you for the question. I am using the word progressively in this context, given that we are opening the door to a wider debate on cannabis in the Kingdom. I hope so. So I think it is progressive in that we have revised some laws, a little like the previous Minister of Transport also takes up some laws that have not been revised since 1912 or 1918 in relation to granting equivalent rights to hearing impaired people in traffic. So the progressive thing is that we are acting, and it is for us a project of freedom that we, as citizens, must of course be allowed to choose whether we want to smoke a joint every now and then not lose our driving licence or be moralised over. We think it is progressive that this debate should begin.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314212804	Then it's mr. Kim Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314212809	Thank you. I understand that you're a lesser person if you don't have some Woodstock-like approach to this bill. Now I do not know if the rapporteur is so old that he is aware of what Woodstock was, but I think there is at least a large amount of cannabis in the blood. And you should also be a worse person if you are not raised to smoke hashish. Well, then I'm sorry to confess to being part of the pack that wasn't brought up for it. However, I think I have managed to become such a fairly decent citizen. What I just don't understand in Mr. Roger Matthisen's argument is that we are going to talk about what is most dangerous, alcohol or to eat too fat and that sort of thing. It's not healthy either. I just can't understand what that has to do with this bill. Because I understand that liquor is one of the most dangerous things. Is it because Mr. Roger Matthisen wants to ban it, or how does it get into this? I mean, it's some kind of health debate that I don't understand at all. Well, I just don't understand where it's gonna end.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314212913	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314212914	Thank you for the question. Where's it gonna end? Hopefully it will end in a debate, and then it may come up with legalisation. Today, fortunately, we have chosen to try medical cannabis and see how that scheme can affect the many thousands of citizens in our country who need pain relief. In relation to the reference to the social costs we have of other substances such as alcohol and tobacco, it is of course a matter of not going out here and doing so for people or saying from the platform that they should stay away from it. But we know that thousands of Danes die because of tobacco and because of alcohol, both the users of it and other citizens of our society. But here we are not going to go out and say that it should be done illegally, and I am certainly not in favour of that either. My question, then, is: why is it that we continue to have this Conservative • speaking of the rapporteur from the Conservatives' vocabulary • attitude to cannabis in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314213020	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314213022	I'll quietly draw attention to it's just such a service information that both the taking of hashish and the selling of hashish are actually illegal, sir. Roger Matthisen. So this isn't about legalisation or legalisation. I am just saying that we have legislation here, which is about how best to drive a car, and that is where we remove a small chunk of this zero tolerance in relation to the consumption of drugs. And believe me, it could of course be a debate on legalisation, but I just think it would be sir. Roger Matthisen has to go somewhere else. I'm dealing with the traffic code and section 54.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314213100	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314213101	Thank you. However, the material we receive and have to deal with our legislative proposal on the basis of, we have to take a position on it. And this material and these analyses and research results show that we can equate it and that we need proportional sanctioning of THC in the blood in relation to alcohol in the blood. And that's not what we got here. We've had a relief, but we haven't had a sideline. That is what the research results have shown us.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314213128	Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314213129	I simply have to ask, because I am confused at a higher level: will the alternative ban tobacco and alcohol, because it is the most expensive socio-economic way, because more people die from it? Is that how I'm supposed to understand the alternative?
ParlaMint-DK_20170314213149	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314213156	No.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314213157	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314213202	Then I simply do not understand what is being said. In other words, there is a long explanation that the socio-economic evidence is that alcohol and tobacco are dying of people, but that the same evidence is not available for other substances. Then I simply do not understand what the rapporteur is doing in relation to this. I'll tell you what. So, in Denmark, cannabis is prohibited, that drugs are banned. It is also legal to smoke only in certain places and then it is legal to drink, even within certain limits, if you are going driving, and that is actually what we are dealing with here. But as the debate is going on, I simply do not understand what the rapporteur wants.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314213236	That gives the rapporteur the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314213237	The rapporteur would like to highlight some discredits in our social design, which is that we know that there are a lot of people dying from alcohol and tobacco. Science has not shown that anyone died from smoking cannabis. So we would like to take the debate on why we then have the legislation that we have. In relation to the specific legislative proposal, it was about addressing the research findings submitted to us in connection with the examination of the legislative proposal and our political agreement last year. After all, we have not got a proportionality and an equivalence of the two things here. And that is what the Alternative and Enhedslisten are a little bit awkward about.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314213320	Thank you. There are no more comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Sanne Bjørn, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314213333	Thank you. For the Radical Left, it is essential that we continue to follow up road safety, and the consumption of drugs when driving a car just does not belong anywhere. That is why we are very pleased that the political agreement we have made is now being translated into these two conditions: to make a stepping stone model and to relax the penalty for hash-infected driving, and that we now have the opportunity to voluntarily drive alkolås throughout the period during which the driving licence has been denied. These are two elements that we think are very sensible, and it is also very good that we have been able to reach such a broad agreement on the radical Left so that both proposals are warmly supported.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314213428	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314213444	The bill is a consequence of the political agreement we reached last summer. The reason for the agreement was a proposal from the SF to equate the sanctions for alcohol affected and hash affected driving respectively. We must therefore thank you very much for the factual treatment, former Minister for Transport. Hans Christian Schmidt gave the proposal. The Minister called for negotiations, and so we got an agreement that ended the unfair discrimination. We have seen examples of young people who have lost their driving licence because THC had been measured in the blood several weeks after they had actually been affected. It could mean a layoff or a lost apprenticeship. That discrimination had nothing to do with road safety, but was symbolic policy. But beard to himself and snot to himself, as Mr. Hans Christian Schmidt has also said. We should not involve hash policy in transport when it has nothing to do with security. We do not want to compromise road safety in any way, nor does this bill. Specifically, the bill means that the rules of the Road Traffic Code on the movement of drugs in the blood are being changed so that the sanction system for hash driving is built up according to a stairwell model, in which the penalties for hash driving in the blood increase in line with the measured levels of THC in the blood. In addition, it is proposed that three quantitative limit values be set for the level of THC in the blood, after which the penalties for hash driving are measured as far as possible in accordance with the same guidelines as those for drunk driving. SF supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314213625	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314213641	The Conservative People's Party also supports the bill, and that is probably not so surprising, since we are all in a common agreement. We do this because we do not have political views on certain substances. We have a position that, when we set the level of penalties here, it is reasonable that there is some proportionality between how much different substances hamper people's ability to drive and what the penalty is for it. Furthermore, because of the recommendations of medicine, we have a ban on hashish in Denmark. We are in favour of this. This has nothing to do with this debate, but very briefly I can just repeat, for the sake of good order, that it is simply a matter of medical science thinking that hashish is harmful and that we should set the limit somewhere for which substances should be allowed. But this is a whole other discussion, and there is little reason to open it up here, because here we are trying to create a system where we punish in relation to the traffic law, if you drive a worse car, and otherwise we have some other rules that apply to the possession of hashish.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314213755	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the Minister of Transport, Building and Housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314213808	Thank you for the positive reception of the bill. Shortly before the summer holiday last year, Hans Christian Schmidt, then Minister for Transport, gathered all the parties of the Danish Parliament to a political agreement on driving in hash affected condition and alcolocks. The purpose of the bill here is to implement this agreement. Today, the Traffic Act contains a so - called trivial limit for driving drugs into the blood, including hashish. In accordance with the rules in force, infringements of the de minimis threshold entail, as a rule, a fine of one month's salary and an unconditional disqualification of the driver's right for at least three years. In these cases, the punishment and disqualification of driving rights are not always proportionate and may have far-reaching and unintended consequences that are not in the public interest. There is agreement in the political agreement that weed driving in terms of road safety is equivalent to drunk driving. Drug policy should therefore not be included in the law on traffic. We propose that the rules of the Road Traffic Code on the use of hashish in blood should be amended so that the sanctioning system for hashish driving is built up according to a stairwell model. Thus, the sanctions for hash driving must be increased in line with the measured level of THC in the blood, i.e. in the same way as is the case with drunk driving. Three quantitative limit values are proposed for the level of THC in the blood. Penalties for hash driving, i.e. Both punishment and driver's disqualification are then proposed as far as possible in accordance with the same guidelines as drunk driving. In this way, we will achieve a proportionate and more reasonable sanctions for hashish driving in terms of road safety. The Traffic Act now also contains rules on driving with alkolås in connection with the unconditional disqualification of the driver's right to drink driving. The voluntary alcola scheme includes serious cases of drunk driving, although they are not quite coarse. The scheme entered into force in 2015 and means that you can change the last year of an unconditional disclaimer of at least 3 years for driving with alkolås for 2 years. It can already be seen that the present system is not a success, since since the system enters into force only approx. 24 persons who have chosen to avail themselves of the scheme. One of the main reasons for the low number of participants is that you can only start riding alkolås in the last year of an unconditional three-year disclaimer. Therefore, you only have to go through a two-year period without driver's rights. The very negative personal consequences of this include: A possible job loss will therefore already have occurred. Therefore, the current scheme does not provide a sufficient incentive to participate in the scheme. We believe that the use of alkolås has a positive effect on road safety, not only during the driver's participation in the system, but also in the longer term. Evaluations of the Swedish alcola scheme give at least reason to believe that the use of alkolås has a positive effect on the participants' alcohol habits and behaviour in separating alcohol and driving, also in the longer term. In accordance with the political agreement, we therefore propose to make participation in the voluntary alcola scheme more attractive. We propose that the rules of the Road Traffic Code on the voluntary alcola system be amended so that in some cases the alcolock can be chosen as a full alternative to an unconditional disqualification. It is proposed that the full withdrawal period for cases covered by the voluntary alcola scheme may be replaced by driving with alkolås. At the same time, the period of alcola must not exceed the period of withdrawal. I look forward to further consideration here in the Folketing, and I am of course available to answer any questions that may arise in this regard. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314214220	We thank the Minister. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Transport, Building and Housing Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314214234	The debate is open. Sir. Kaare Dybvad, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314214256	Thank you, President. Socialist housing policy aims to ensure that people with different economic capacities and opportunities meet as far as possible in the Community institutions which form the basis of our welfare societies. Each school district, each football club, each scout squad and each municipality must contain a sample of all Danes from high to low, because it is through the daily commitment of the middle and working classes that the fair conditions of those who come from the inferior social backgrounds are best ensured. It is by meeting and knowing people with normal lives and links to the labour market that we best ensure that all children have the opportunity to become part of our community. In this law we basically deal with three elements of a very different nature. I will take them separately to determine how they play along with our perception of housing policy. The first part consists of the extension of appropriations to the Centre for Housing Social Development, which will ensure the Centre's operation in the coming years. We in the Social Democratic Party are of the opinion that the Centre contributes to the collection and dissemination of knowledge of the development of residential areas to an extent far exceeding the costs that are given to them by the Landsbygningsfonden. That is why we in the Socialist Group also believe that the appropriations should be continued. With regard to the second part of the draft law, which relates to the reduction of the right of appeal, the Social Democratic Party also supports the bill, as we believe that it helps to ensure a more effective procedure within the Ministry's area of responsibility. The last part of the bill deals with the possibility of dividing ownership apartments contained in general housing. This is a request from housing companies which, in the context of the comprehensive plan for vulnerable residential areas, have wanted to sell off parts of the housing department with owner-occupied dwellings in order to create a more mixed housing mix and a more attractive environment in the department. This type of project supports the Social Democratic Party because we believe that it is the mixed residential areas too in areas where general housing dominates the community that ensure good coherence in our communities. But that does not mean, of course, that the Social Democratic Party wants to have a general opening to the sale of general housing. There have been concerns that this proposal should be a step on the way to a more general opening to the sale of general housing for owner-occupied dwellings, and the Social Democratic Party does not support this. That is why we have reservations about the fact that, if it turns out during the committee procedure that this should be the case, we will not support that part. However, on the whole, we support the draft law and, with these comments, we can give our support to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314214516	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Merete Dea Larsen, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314214526	Today we are discussing a bill that is partly a result of the 2017 rate pool as well as proposals prepared by a working group with various representatives, including the municipalities. In the rate pool, the parties agreed to continue to support the Centre for Housing Social Development with an appropriation corresponding to the share of the Landsbygningsfonden. The centre's main task is to provide the knowledge base for the qualification and strengthening of housing social efforts through impact measurement of concrete interventions, systematic knowledge gathering and advice and process support for key players in the field. It is therefore obvious to me that the importance of the centre is so relevant and highly topical. We are devoting great resources to housing social efforts, and we must recognise that the problems are not decreasing. Fortunately, more recent figures show that part of the code is about to be broken. We are now more successful in getting vulnerable citizens into education or work, and it is now about using the focus areas that work rather than outdated theories about how we can motivate vulnerable citizens to become part of society. In addition, the draft law contains a change so that we do not set our own backs when we want to transform general housing and support major overall plans for particularly vulnerable areas. This makes good sense and the consultation answers do not show anything disturbing that leads me to question the effects of the proposal. Another very important element of the draft law is on youth housing. A working group has been set up, and the results of this work have been set up. In future, it will be more transparent and easier to manage the distribution of youth housing, so that young people with special needs too do not get in the back of the line, which experience unfortunately shows they are doing. In future, municipalities will be able to require participation in a joint instruction, regardless of the form of youth housing, and we think that makes a great deal of sense. All in all, the Danish People's Party looks very positively at the bill and looks forward to further consideration.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314214721	We thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Britt Baker, the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314214726	As the previous rapporteurs have mentioned, this proposal proposes three things: 5.9 million will be added. kr. Annually to the Centre for Housing Social Development by 2020; new administrative rules will be introduced to enable redress to be denied; and then the ban on sub-division of condominiums containing general housing, free-care homes, etc. will be lifted. All in all, this bill is a very sensible initiative. This will help to bring about a faster, better and more effective recovery of the vulnerable residential areas in particular, and it will contribute to a better balance in Denmark. The two previous rapporteurs have mentioned the very good things that are in this draft law, which is why I would just like to say that the Left naturally supports it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314214827	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314214845	When you read the answers to the hearings, you are a little encouraged by all the good comments on the things that have been sent to the hearing, where it turns out that there are some things that could obviously provide a better administration of youth housing. And I actually think there are some real consultation answers, and this indicates that the original bill fell into good ground with the students, KL and BL. And I really think it's a shame that it's been messed out of the bill. The Minister has actually had the opportunity here to get a lot of praise today on having got a nose of a certain character if the parts on youth housing had been retained, with which there was apparently some satisfaction during the hearing round. I really think it would be a good thing if we had a little more information today as to why the good element of this bill has been tampered with. I am well aware that there is a place where you want to clear it up, but what is the time perspective in that? When are we going to come up with the conclusions on how youth housing should be managed better? I think, in particular, that the Danish Students' Joint Council makes some good comments about the possibility of a social task being carried out in more youth housing buildings than is currently the case. With regard to the three elements included in the proposal, we think it is okay that the Centre for Housing Social Development should continue to be financed by the Landsbygningsfonden. It is worth questioning whether that is what the Fund should be used for. It might well be that the money could be better found in the Finance Act instead, and I look forward very much to discussing how the funds in the Landsbygningsfonden are to be used in the coming years and what level should be set. Because in previous statements it has come to light that there is a waiting list for renovations, so we should arrive at an increase in funding from the Landsbygningsfonden so that more housing can be renovated. The element of the proposal here to which Enhedslisten is very critical is the element that opens up the possibility of selling some general housing. I think that there is every reason why we should clarify the extent of this proposal during the committee procedure if it is adopted. I think it seems too much to open a door to the sale of general housing. We in the Enhedslist are opposed to this in principle, so if the committee procedure leads to a conclusion that it is something that will have some scope, then we cannot vote in favour of this bill. We can, of course, hope that the bill can be split up, because the sale of general housing does not seem to us to be the right thing to do. We would very much like to see renovation plans made and improvements made to the vulnerable housing areas. But we're against selling general housing. So we are opposed to that element of the legislative proposal at this stage, and we would very much like to see closer attention given to the extent to which it will be implemented if the legislative proposal that is now before us is adopted. As I said, however, I think it would be interesting to clarify why youth housing has not been included in this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314215233	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Villum Christensen as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314215241	LA supports the draft law as formulated here, and we really cannot add anything further in relation to all the benefits already mentioned. We welcome the flexibility inherent in the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314215256	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mr. Roger Matthisen, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314215308	Thank you, Mr President. L 143, draft amendment to the law on general housing, free-care homes, etc. and co-financing by the Centre for Housing Social Development on the possibility of cutting the right of appeal and ownership of the apartment. There has been a very fine statement, I think, from the previous rapporteurs. The Centre for Housing Social Development is an institution that we in the Alternative are very pleased with and, as previous rapporteurs have also mentioned, it is an important institution in identifying and continuing to explore new solutions and evidence of how to develop life and society in the general housing sector. We are a little concerned about restricting access to justice. I was actually interested to hear what the Socialist rapporteur said about the fact that it is positive that the process can be more effective, so I look forward to talking about this in committee, i.e. whether this is just what it is all about or whether we are actually cutting some citizens off from making the most of their rights. In relation to the sale of general housing, I share the concern of the Enhedslisten's rapporteur regarding whether this too generally opens doors. So in committee we must bear in mind in particular, I think, how the draft law should be implemented, and perhaps the Minister will already explain some of it in his ministerial speech. Those were the words. We support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314215458	There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Sanne Bjørn, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314215506	Thank you. The Radical Left considers all three proposals here in L 143 sensible and we can vote in favour of it. After all, the Centre for Housing Social Development is a fantastic knowledge centre, which helps to make a great effort to develop our housing social areas in a way that integrates all people in the best possible way and offers the most opportunities also in the non-profit residential areas. These are some of the places where there are really big challenges, and we believe that the more you know about how to develop correctly, the better you have the opportunity to take action. The second part of this is that of the right of appeal and, as I understand it, the intention is to give the board the final administrative access instead of the ministry, and that is what we think is really sensible. If that is not the case, it is, of course, something we would like to discuss in committee too. As I read the third part of it, which abolishes the ban on the further division of ownership apartments, it is also quite reasonable, because the purpose here is to allow for the restoration of a residential area that is exposed and to create some other opportunities for apartments, so that you have a more broadly-based housing stock, and that is also very sensible in that we know that by mixing different people in different residential areas you also have better opportunities to learn from each other. So we are warm supporters of all three parts.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314215643	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314215655	SF really likes that we have a strong housing social effort. It is an effort that moves people to a better life in the local areas. The funding is now in place until 2020. We think it is a good model to share funding with funds from the Landsbygningsfonden and bet pool funds. We believe that more young people's homes are needed and that they must be managed in an optimal way. If this bill will lead to further sales of non-profit housing, SF will be critical of that part of it. Let us look at this in committee. But otherwise, the SF supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314215743	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Anders Johansson, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314215745	Thank you. When you get that far down the line of speeches, it can be hard to contribute a lot of new things. Now all three elements of the bill have been thoroughly examined by the previous rapporteurs, so I would just like to say that the Conservative People's Party can support all three elements of the bill, and thus we support the overall legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314215808	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Transport, Building and Housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314215815	Thank you for the positive reception of the bill. I am pleased to note that there is broad support for this. I would like to highlight two things in the draft law, and the first is the amendment to the ownership law, which concerns the lifting of the ban on the redistribution of ownership apartments containing general housing or free-care homes. General housing organisations and municipalities find that the existing ban on further division constitutes a barrier to the development of general housing areas. The proposal ensures that sales from the original property will in future be possible without having to be made in connection with sales for residential purposes and sales from the owner's apartment consisting of the rooftops at all. The proposal thus gives the local players a new tool in the box, which, together with the existing possibilities, can strengthen the efforts in the vulnerable residential areas. Secondly, I would like to mention the proposal concerning the continued co-financing of the Centre for Housing Social Development. There are still many challenges in vulnerable residential areas. It is therefore important to support future efforts and to document the impact of actions already taken. Otherwise, I look forward to the committee reading in this positive spirit.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314215942	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Transport, Building and Housing Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170314215957	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday, 15 March 2017, at 12.00 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
