ParlaMint-DK_20170321130000	The meeting is open. It is Tuesday, 21 March 2017, and I can announce to the Danish Parliament's agenda that Enhedslisten's parliamentary group has informed me that it has appointed Claus Thure Hastrup Thomsen as a member to the Board of Directors of the Institute of Multi-party Cooperation. 1 May 2017 instead of a member of the Folketing Christian Juhl. Today, Tuesday, 21 March 2017, there are the following reviews: Søren Søndergaard (EL) and Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 88 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution to hold an indicative referendum on Denmark's accession to the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Canada, of the other part (CETA)). Stine Brix (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 89 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the abolition of the requirement for the productivity of hospitals). Jep Jakobsen (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 90 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the abolition of the temporary exemption from the Digital Post). Sofie Carsten Nielsen (RV) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. Β 91 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the adaptation of the rules on the withdrawal of residence permits). Søren Egge Rasmussen (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 92 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on an analysis of the tax on biomass for district heating). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20170321130125	Are there any objections to the promotion of these requests? I consider the consent of the matter to be given. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321130223	No amendments have been tabled. I want to know if anyone wants to speak. That does not seem to be the case, so we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321130232	The final adoption of the draft law is being voted on and can now be voted on. We shall conclude the vote now. In favour 107 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321130306	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case, so we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321130323	The final adoption of the bill will be put to the vote and you can vote now. We shall conclude the vote now. in writing. - 89 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF) voted against 5 (ALT), abstained on 13 (EL and SF). The bill has been passed and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321130423	No one has tabled amendments. Does anyone wish to speak? There isn't. That concludes the debate. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. If any of you do not object, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321130505	Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321130512	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (ALT). We shall conclude the vote now. In favour of 14 (EL and ALT), against 93 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. If we want to vote on Amendment No 1, we will vote on Amendment No 3. 2, to be elected by the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321130607	Does anyone wish to speak? I understand that there isn't. As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321130630	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, elected by a majority (the Committee with the exception of the Enhedslisten)? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? I do not see the talk in the corridors as an objection, so it has been adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321130707	The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur to speak is Mr Beazley. Orla Hav of Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321130747	Thank you for that, President. After all, it is no secret that the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and the Working Environment, over a long period of time and with successive ministers, has been engaged in assessing the social services law. Initially, it was the municipalities that drew attention to the law when they considered that there was a need for change so that the law became simpler to administer. There have been many discussions about this and there have been many warnings and pointed fingers in the discussions. What has gathered the parties today is, after all, the agreement behind the draft law, in relation to the obvious inappropriateness of the way in which too many resources were spent on the handling of cases and thus did not directly benefit the citizens. There is therefore a broad majority of parties that would like to target resources for people with disabilities and limit bureaucracy. On the part of the Social Democratic Party, it has always been intended to look at this law so that it will be easier for both citizens and those who have to administer the law in the municipalities to find out about the possibilities and ensure that the individual citizen actually gets what he needs and not everything else. It is difficult to find a balance, therefore, between always making an individual assessment and finding solutions that match the needs of the individual and not creating a regime where even the slightest help or change triggers massive workflows and massive bureaucracy. Today's draft law is not as far-reaching as some of the legal guardians really wanted, but a result of what a majority considers to be an approximation and justice and fairness in the relationship between bureaucracy and the need for effective use of society's resources. I must say that we welcome the fact that there will be an opportunity to make early preventive efforts, that there will be the possibility of using group-based offers of assistance and support, fixed-term individual offers of social pedagogy aid and support for citizens who are not yet eligible for benefits under the Services Act, as well as social emergency services as part of their efforts towards citizens with mental illness. Furthermore, it proposes clarification of the possibilities of using voluntary services and, finally, there are some new rules to allocate aids or consumer goods to citizens with a temporary disability for a shorter period of time. All in all, we believe that a fair balance has been struck between the concerns that we would like to take without compromising the rights of citizens with disabilities. Let me now make a few comments on L 151, which is a consequence of L 150. As far as we are concerned, it has meant a great deal to put people at the centre and thereby to have an opportunity to correct an old imbalance which has arisen in the social system, namely that a group of citizens were unable to make use of the provision of social benefits. It has been the case that benefits have been available outside the social system, outside the accommodation offered to you, but not from the accommodation offered to you. We are correcting that now, so that we can buy a service, for example. to participate in the Sølund Music Festival. This has been the major iconic topic of discussion, i.e. this degree of individualization in relation to the interests of groups who are staying on accommodation offers. We think it is a sensible approach to the offer that one can have the opportunity to buy a benefit of this kind, well to mark by a staff who knows the resident concerned and who is familiar with his needs and characteristics. It is absolutely essential that you can leave with the security that it is present, and that is why we think it is a sensible balance. I would like to say that, for my part, I have received quite a few positive statements from the group that we would like to give a hand with this opportunity to make a purchase. I would just like to say that there have also been a few pointed fingers here, in relation to whether this is now opening a barn gate to allow municipalities to simply remove the leisure and activity offers and then allow citizens to pay for themselves. No, it's not. It is an explicit premise for this that the citizens have what lies in the home offer in advance, and on top of that you can buy a service that suits the interests and needs of the individual. We think that this is a sensible arrangement, and we welcome it. And I want to say hello to those who are closely associated with the Sølund Music Festival, who have signed for it at our group meeting and said: This is really good, it may not only save interest for some residents around in accommodation offers, who would like to visit Sølund Music Festival, but it will also save Sølund Music Festival. And then let us rejoice.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321131340	Thank you, sir. Orla Hav. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jakob Sølvhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321131357	In his speech, the rapporteur said that the purchase should be added to what the citizen is searched for. It is also clear from the legal notes that the purchase of social pedagogic accompanying services must be beyond the efforts under the Service Act to which the citizen is searched during the 24-hour period. I would therefore like to ask the rapporteur: what if the citizen is not searched for holidays on a 24-hour basis? What is to be added to that?
ParlaMint-DK_20170321131428	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321131429	There's Mr. Knox. Jakob Sølvhøj a point. Because it is true that when we look at the inventory of some of the offers made in some of these offers, we see that there are a number of municipalities where there is no offer. I can't answer on a stand-by basis what the reason for that is. Are there citizens who do not have the opportunity to profit from such an offer and get out of the house? Now I find it hard to imagine that there would be. It might also be that it was the level of service in the municipality concerned, and then I would just like to say that it is very much about having applications submitted and getting a targeted job done, so it can be expected that the service offered in the social area is so fairly harmoniously distributed across the country, with the variations we normally know. However, I am also offended by the fact that there are municipalities which do not have an offer at all, and this may be an independent discussion in the context of the subsequent examination of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321131526	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321131529	I understand the rapporteur's view that this means that, in cases where someone is not searched for leave but is searched to zero, from day one they will be able to charge. That's how we know it's in a number of municipalities from a survey that KL did a few years ago. I fully agree that the individual citizen should apply for it himself, but from day one he will be able to impose a user fee on the citizen in order to go on holiday with accompanying documents, so that this is not really a purchase, but a real user payment scheme. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20170321131608	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321131608-2	So I do not think that is a fair presentation of the matter. The fact is that there are a number of citizens who have had an offer which may be 5 days, but it may also be 0 days, but everything else equal is that which you get to buy is on top of what you have. When there is a group, and I acknowledge this, which does not have an offer, I think it is possible to say that there is a gap in the measurement of benefits that may be in those municipalities, and I think we should have a look at what the concrete background is. After all, the minister has been reasonably clear in his description of what is going to follow up on this legislation, and that is that this is not an open door so that the municipalities can go in and tear the citizens, because, we have to say, to save the municipal treasury something in this area. The municipal service should be there, and I think there are some places where you should look for whether you really give what the citizens have a legitimate claim to.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321131711	Then there are no more brief remarks to Mr. Orla Hav, and then we go to Mrs Karina Adsbøl from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321131725	Thank you for that, President. The purpose of the agreement is to ensure that, under the adult provisions of the Services Act, citizens are given a coherent and holistic approach that responds to the needs of the citizen. The aid must be organised on the basis of a concrete and individual assessment of the needs of the citizen and the conditions of the citizen. Simplifying the Services Act started already under the previous government, which then chose to withdraw the bill because of the very critical consultation responses. The critical consultation responses were a logical consequence of the deterioration in citizens' legal certainty in the proposal. When the government played out in the first place with a draft law on the adult regulations of the Services Act, it would have had a major impact on the citizens concerned if it were adopted on the basis of the intentions, for there would be a change in the provisions of the Service Act to the provisions of the "Can'. What does a provision of services mean? It means that a municipality may choose to provide a service; in principle, a provision may also mean that a municipality may decide that it does not wish to offer a service. An example of this may be section 96 of the Service Act. 3 where the municipal council can offer citizens' personal assistance to citizens who are not included in the population pursuant to paragraph 3. 1 if the municipal council considers that this is the best opportunity to ensure comprehensive and coherent assistance for the citizen. There are so many municipalities who opt out. In the Danish People's Party we have fought hard against deterioration and against the deterioration that was planned. So, did we get to the finish line? No, but we reduced the extent of the damage to a considerable extent in relation to what was planned, and we can then welcome that. If it had stood for the Danish People's Party alone, the bill would have contained more. I believe that we should have solved the monitoring problem and I believe that we could give the municipalities the power to continue the practice they had prior to the judgment in the Court of Justice, where the Court of Justice considered that monitoring was not part of the BPA section. Unfortunately, we still lack a number of notes on the issues raised by the Danish People's Party about what opportunities there are, i.e. whether there are other clauses that can be used and how much subsidies the municipalities get for a BPA scheme called civic assistance. We could also consider, if all the parties to the agreement agree, making an amendment to this. At the time, the Danish People's Party was given a majority in favour of the motion for a resolution on suspensive effect, which means that no one could be deprived of their help before there was a decision by the Ankestyrelsen. It then became a compromise solution, which introduces an alert in relation to the suspensive effect. A minimum notice period of 14 weeks combined with a fixed track scheme in the Ankestyrelsen will, according to the Ministry, comply with the considerations underlying the adopted motion for a resolution • B 36 • on the suspensive effect of appeals for citizens with disabilities and ensure that the citizen retains the assistance granted by the municipality during a possible appeal period if the citizen complains about the municipality's decision. In addition, it was also stated in B 36 that it should be easy and fast for citizens to assess whether suspensive effects can be achieved in their appeal proceedings. A notice of refusal or reduction of benefits will mean that citizens will automatically continue to receive their benefits while the complaint is being dealt with. This is therefore an easy-to-use system for citizens. It's a step along the way, but there's a but, for what about those cases that won't be dealt with within the 14 weeks, the residual group of approx. Ten percent? The Danish People's Party does not believe that it is sufficient to refer solely to the possibility of the Ankestyrelsen's assigning a specific case suspensive effect, as we do not have any assurance that this will happen. That is why we proposed during the negotiations that the Ankestyrelsen should be obliged to extend the suspensive effect if a complaint with an alert cannot be dealt with before the end of the warning period. The purpose of the Services Act, which is also part of this bill, proposes clarification of the purpose rules with increased emphasis on rehabilitation and promotion of inclusion. There is early preventive action, where it is proposed to create the legal basis for the municipal council to establish and use group-based offers of assistance and support and time-limited individual offers of social pedagogic assistance and support for citizens who are not yet eligible for benefits under the Services Act, as well as social emergency services as part of the response to citizens with mental illness. This should not be an austerity exercise, and it should be understood that the municipality cannot simply say that they have provided social pedagogy assistance. Finally, it proposes to allow the municipal council to allocate an aid or consumer goods to citizens with a temporary disability for a shorter period of time. The bill is part of a bet pool agreement and translates parts of the agreement to revise the adult provisions of the Services Act. The other parts of the agreement, which are reflected on the one hand in changes to administrative regulations and, on the other hand, in a separate legislative proposal, deal with the following elements: compulsory use of faith and legislative declaration when applying for replacement of AT; possibility for the municipal council to choose to make use of faith and legislative declarations for applications for reimbursement of AT; debureaucratisation of the rules on car support, including clarification of the rules on suitability assessment and increase of the replacement period from 6 to 8 years; simplification of the rules on self-payment for residence in women's crisis centres, welfare homes, etc.; and the introduction of the possibility of the purchase of social pedagogy accompanying holidays. In the Danish People's Party, we are quite prepared to make some improvements to this bill, even in relation to the consultation responses received. We are perfectly prepared to do so, and that also applies to what I have said in my rapporteur's speech about the problems we have about monitoring. I look forward, of course, to the further examination, where we are also awaiting further notes. Then I will move on to the second draft law, L 151, which deals with educational support. At the time, we put forward a proposal on clear guidelines in this area, which was that we wanted constructive solutions to the whole problem of accompanying them. We have also listened to the many inquiries we have received, including from people with disabilities who will be allowed to have their own funds. We have among other things. seen it during summer holiday periods in connection with the Sølund Festival. For this reason, the government set up a working group to prepare proposals for solutions to the challenges of getting accompanying through the Service Act to people with disabilities. In the past, there was a practice that residents of social housing services could purchase educational accompanying services in addition to those provided by the municipality for social educational support. This was not a correct practice and therefore the practice changed. This meant that we received a great many requests from interested parties who were angry that they could no longer decide their own money. The challenge has then been for us politicians to find a solution to this, and I must be honest and say that it has not been easy, because the concern has been whether it would reduce the level of service in the municipalities, and then they would not provide social education support under the law, but would point out that you can pay for that yourself. So it is a question of finding a balance in not interfering, on the one hand, with what citizens want to spend their money on, and, on the other hand, with the draft law, so that it does not affect what can be granted as a citizen under the Services Act. So with the proposal here, the purchase of social pedagogy accompanying holidays must be in addition to the effort under Section 85 of the Social Services Act, to which the resident is searched during the day. The possibility of buying-in can only be used if the local or regional 24-hour offer ensures that the holiday can be carried out staffably. It is essential that the introduction of the purchase of social pedagogy accompanying holidays should not lead to deterioration, reductions or a lack of visitation of social pedagogy assistance under Section 85 of the Services Act, including accompanying measures which the municipalities are obliged to deliver to the target group on the basis of a concrete and individual assessment. Therefore, when assessing the needs of the citizen for assistance and support under the Service Act, the municipal council must not take into account that the citizen has an option for social education accompanying him. It follows from Article 85 of the Services Act that the municipal council must offer assistance, care or support, training and assistance for the development of skills for citizens who need to do so in the light of a significant reduction in physical or mental capacity or special social problems. This is also apparent from the decision of principle of the Ankestyrelsen no. 60-15 that you may be entitled to receive social pedagogy support during short stays outside the home. In addition, it is possible for residents, relatives and others through the whistleblower scheme to bring to the attention of the Social Protection Agency any deterioration in the 24-hour offer during these periods. The Ministry's assessment is that these conditions will allow sufficient control that the use of purchases does not affect the quality of the 24-hour offer for residents who do not make use of the option. We will, of course, monitor how this is being applied in practice, including compliance with the intentions of the legislative proposal, and therefore an evaluation will also take place. I am convinced that if and if the intentions of the parties to the agreement are not followed by local authorities, the parties to the agreement are ready to take action. At least we are from the Danish People's Party. We are also on this bill ready to increase supervision if that is what needs to be done with the Social Protection Agency, and we are very willing to discuss this with the parties to the agreement if that is what is desired. We will, of course, be asking a number of questions during the next debate in committee. I would like to thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321132809	There is a brief comment on Mrs Karina Adsbøl from Mr. Jakob Sølvhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321132815	A few minutes ago, we could hear sir. Orla Hav from the Social Democratic Party say that there is apparently a gap in the legislation, which means that there may be municipalities where citizens are searched for 0 hours of accompanying, so that the option introduced here becomes a regular user fee because the citizen has to pay for accompanying on holiday from day one. Does the rapporteur agree with Mr McMillan-Scott's point of view? Orla Havet interpretation of that gap in the Service Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20170321132853	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321132854	I agree that there are and have been some challenges in this area and that we as parties have had to find a solution. In any case, I have quite specifically understood this bill in the sense that it is about the fact that when you are searched for Section 85 you get the opportunity to buy. And if it is that there is more to that part and that it may give rise to some concerns, then that is something we are ready to ask some questions about, so that we have a better informed basis if what we have been given is not enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321132929	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321132931	Well, I see that the same answer is given, namely that there is no such security in the draft law. And it does mean that there are citizens that that is the great concern of me and Enhedslisten who in this way will be covered by a full user fee for escorts. Is it the case that the rapporteur will help to close this gap? It is natural to do so, since you now have the legislation in place to reverse it is, of course, there you are looking at whether there are problems. Will the rapporteur help to support an amendment to the proposal here which specifically ensures that we cannot get into the situation where the citizen has to pay his vacation from day one?
ParlaMint-DK_20170321133013	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321133014	This is a dilemma, as I have already said. I am also here with an article from TV 2/Østjylland, where a Brian Bithsz is out to say: "That is to deprive me of the right to think and act for myself. After all, I'm not under authority, and I'd like to decide whether I want to spend my money one way or another. Well, it says a little bit about the dilemma in relation to this. I can only say that the intention of the Danish People's Party is not to increase a user fee. The Danish People's Party has some intentions that municipalities should offer citizens the help that they can get under the Service Act. Once offered according to Section 85 of the Service Act, they can buy extra if they want to go on 2 weeks' vacation. Then we don't have to decide what they can spend their money on. However, as I said earlier, we would like to discuss this with the parties to the agreement. In relation to the second, that is to say, to support an amendment from the Enhedslisten, it may well be very difficult when an agreement has been reached, because it may well be seen as a breach of the agreement. We would like, of course, if there are any challenges in this, and if it does not meet what we expected, to find this balance, to discuss it with the parties to the agreement and the minister again.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321133135	Thank you to Mrs Karina Adsbøl. There are no more brief comments and we warmly welcome Mrs Anni Matthiesen, on behalf of the Left, the Liberal Party of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321133146	Thank you, sir. President. The two legislative proposals that we are working together in this Chamber today are legislative proposals which translate parts of an already concluded agreement on the revision of the adult provisions of the Services Act. I've chosen to deal with both bills under one. As all the social rapporteurs are aware of in the agreement, these two legislative proposals have been agreed across all parties. On the whole, I would like to stress that both proposals share the view that they are very much in favour of those citizens who are in one way or another in the social system. It's both good and right that we strengthen this area. Actually, I don't think any of us can disagree with that. As far as L 150 is concerned, I would like to say that the proposal supports, in particular, the more coherent and holistic efforts of citizens, while, with the legislative proposal L 151, we are helping to increase the flexibility and security of residents of municipal and regional 24-hour services. So it can be said that there are two different parameters in the social field. There is no doubt that we support it in the Left. I can also say that I personally have had many inquiries about the issues that have been for disabled people, who have not had the opportunity to buy a companion themselves, among other things. e.g. when they: will go to the music festival or for that matter a tour of the city during the weekend. That is why I have also received various e-mails with positive expressions, so you can see that we are now taking a step in the right direction and reaching out to some people who are allowed to decide for themselves what they want to spend their money on. That is why I can conclude by saying that we naturally support both legislative proposals. I do not think it has been a difficult struggle to fight to achieve this, but I think it is quite clear that with the result we have and are discussing in this Chamber today, we have come a very, very long way.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321133422	There is a brief comment to be made on Mrs Anni Matthiesen, and that is from Mr. Jakob Sølvhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321133430	I assume that the rapporteur has the same understanding as the two previous rapporteurs, that there is a gap in the legislation, which means that in principle you can be searched for 0 hour's support. Can the rapporteur not have a concern when this bill is perhaps adopted that there will then be municipalities where the budget is now allocated to citizens so that they can come on, for example. A week's vacation, and that this proposal can remove the current budget, as do 12, 14, 16 other municipalities, so that people are actually deprived of the opportunity to have a holiday, because the municipalities are saving the offer, but that the citizen in question is not able to use the buy-in system because it is too expensive? Can this not be a concern shared by the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20170321133535	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321133537	I have to say that I do not have quite the same major concerns as the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, because it can be said that if you are searched, according to section 85, I believe that in the long, by far most cases you will also be accompanied. So I may not have quite the same concerns, but I also know that this is one of the things that the Enhedslisten can ask about during the committee procedure itself, so that we may also have a comprehensive overview of whether there is really a problem that the Enhedslisten's rapporteur like exhibits.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321133614	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321133617	There is not much reason to believe that there is no problem. That's where the last time the KL checked it out. There it was exactly 1 in 7 or 1 in 8 of the country's municipalities that had not set aside one penny for this purpose. There may have been some patching up, but I guess we have no reason to believe that the problem has been solved. I would also like to ask another question. It is true that the legislative notes to the proposal make it very clear that it is essential that local and regional 24-hour offers set the purchase price so that the price is not lower than the total cost of the service. There may be a certain logic in that. However, can the rapporteur not confirm that this means that the greater the reduction in working time, the more expensive it will be, so that if the reduction in working time is so great that you need two helpers on holiday, it will be twice as expensive for the citizen to get a holiday escort as if you only need a single companion? Is it not unfair discrimination against citizens based solely on the extent of their disability?
ParlaMint-DK_20170321133717	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321133719	Often it is the case that if you have additional needs, it will be the way that you will also be given additional accompanying lessons. I can tell you that as a mother of a disabled son I know that some of what matters to him very much also with this bill is that he now gets the freedom to decide on top of himself to buy more freedom by buying himself for social pedagogic companionship and for that matter so forward-looking have the opportunity to participate, among other things. in music festivals etc. I think that freedom is really, really good, and this is what we are achieving with this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321133810	Thank you to Mrs Anni Matthiesen. We shall move on to the next rapporteur, and that is exactly what Mr Beyer de Ryke said. Jakob Sølvhøj from Enhedslisten. Welcome to the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321133835	Thanks, and I'm sorry I'm late. It's hard both to ask questions from downstairs and talk from up here. To start at the positive end, I would like to say at the outset that we in the Enhedslist welcome the absence of what was the original main element of the government's negotiating proposal for a review of the adult provisions of the Services Act, namely the proposal for a catalogue of measures, which was probably just a new version of the proposal for a range of offers from the negotiations that took place on the adult provisions a few years ago. This would have meant that a large group of citizens with disabilities had lost some of the clear rights they currently have under existing legislation. It was quite obvious that the purpose of replacing the "shell" provisions in the law today with the "can" provisions was to provide municipalities with a tool to reduce costs in the field of disability, as had also been agreed in the economic negotiations between the Minister of Finance and KL, both in 2014 and in 2015. It was therefore also the starting point for the negotiations on this legislative review that the improvements proposed should be financed through municipal savings. It is therefore very good that, during the negotiations, we established a majority to prevent the introduction of a catalogue of measures. On the other hand, I find it regrettable that the money for the costs involved in the revision of the legislation, which is taking place here in L 150, does not appear in the Finance Act, but is financed from the resources of the budget. This seems to us in the Enhedslisten to be an unfair and untenable way of financing legislation. Having said that, we believe that the L 150 contains a number of improvements to the law, but I would also like to say that I think it is worth pointing to the fact that, as at least one other rapporteur has done, there are several serious shortcomings in the proposal. I think the proposal to introduce an alert period of 14 weeks is very good. I think it is a very good proposal that the then Minister for Social Affairs made during the negotiations. On the other hand, I think that the benefits covered by the provision are too narrowly defined. The warning clause should contain elements other than those included in the legislative proposal. It should at least be the case that social pedagogic assistance, protected employment and activity and social services were also covered by the 14-week warning. And at the same time, as was also pointed out here a moment ago from the platform that it should be such that it was an obligation for the Ankestyrelsen to suspend the effect if it was so that the Ankestyrelsen had not completed a case within a 14-week period; otherwise it could be said that the whole intention was to replace a genuine proposal for suspensive effect • B 36, which has been referred to a little earlier • the slightly disappears, i.e. if it is the case that the proceedings may last 16, 18, 20, 22 weeks and the benefit then lapses in the last weeks of the proceedings. Nor is it satisfactory that the proposal does not include an amendment to Section 95 of the Act. 3, so that in future the law will include monitoring of citizens who need to be monitored in their own homes. Unfortunately, it is very clear from the legislative notes that it is the economy alone that limits aid which, for some citizens, is an absolute condition for them to remain in their own homes. Both the 14-week notice and the lack of supervision provided for in § 95 (1). 3 is something on which we will be tabling amendments during the legislative procedure. With regard to the second proposal we are discussing here, that is, L 151, on the purchase of social pedagogy accompanying holidays, we believe in the Enhedslisten that it is absolutely essential that people with disabilities should be compensated for their disability in order to have equal opportunities for active and full participation in society. Although the proposal is wrapped in nice words and intentions, it has already been here in the course of the negotiations. The reality is that a user fee is being introduced for social pedagogy support. It does not help very much that the law states that the purchase of social pedagogic accompanying services must be beyond the effort under § 85 to which the resident is searched for 24 hours a day, while at the same time the law does not oblige the municipalities to actually offer social pedagogic accompanying services to the citizens for holidays. If a municipality has not set aside a crown to accompany it, then there is virtually no room for social pedagogical support for a user-funded service. I am well aware of this, of course, from the legal notes that reference is made to the decision of principle of the Ankestyrelsen in this respect. However, if you really wanted to guarantee a minimum right to citizens, you could simply write it into the law, and when the government does not want to do so, it must be because when the nice words are peeled off, it is so that the government will not guarantee citizens a minimum right to accompany you and thus open the door wide open to a regular user payment scheme. It is in itself a breach of the principles of Danish disability policy to introduce user charges for escorts, but it actually becomes even more serious when you look at the specific content of the proposal. First of all, there is the fact that it will be so expensive for the individual citizen that a great many people will not be able to avail themselves of the scheme. When we negotiated the issue and I was in the negotiations most of the way we were presented with calculations that said that it would cost the individual citizen an average of DKK 42,000. to get escorts on vacation. Whom can you imagine paying it? Now I think the figures that were made may not have been so factual that it did something, but let's say it only costs $20,000 to $25,000. in writing. - (PT) It seems to me that there will be a great many citizens in our housing services who are not regularly on holiday and that there will be citizens in the large group of young people who are on the new early retirement scheme from 2003 onwards who will never be able to go on holiday under this provision. Secondly, it has to be said that it is quite grotesque that the system is linked in accordance with the principle that the greater the impairment of function, the greater the amount of user charges. The citizen who has such a significant disability that she needs two helpers must pay twice as much for a week's holiday as the citizen who only needs one companion. In my view, this is a discrimination which is totally upset. Finally, in the Enhedslisten, we are very concerned that the introduction of the buy-in system would directly reduce the scope for accompanying some citizens so that they would be put at a disadvantage in practice than they have been asked to do today. We fear that a new opportunity to collect payments from citizens will mean that some municipalities, which today have allocated a reasonable budget for social education accompanying holidays, will take advantage of the amended legislation to cut spending on the area. Why should they not follow the bad example of the many municipalities that have already searched zero hours to accompany them today? In conclusion, I do not dispute the fact that there will be citizens who will be able to obtain more social pedagogic support for permanent staff on their accommodations than they have been searched for today. I understand that many of my fellow rapporteurs have received requests from citizens who are in this situation, and I think that is regular enough. However, the problem is that, as the draft law is screwed up, at the same time as providing a new opportunity for a few to buy more companionship, one opens the door to deterioration for the many. It opens the door to the fact that the vast majority of citizens who today live in a residence offer and are covered by the accompanying regulations will no longer be able to leave with a visitation from the accommodation offer. And we risk that the costs are simply so expensive that their opportunity to accompany them on holiday has been deprived of them, and this also applies in practice to their ability to go on holiday at all. All in all, I think it is a really bad proposal that has been produced. It's good for a few, but really bad for the many. And that is why I must call on the parties who are behind the proposal, and this applies to all parties of the Danish Parliament except Enhedslisten, to consider whether a real solution has now been found in this area. I should now like to acknowledge from several rapporteurs that this is a gap in the legislation that has not been patched up, call for the withdrawal of the emergency brake, call back L 151 and simply adopt L 150. And then let us get L 151 back to a new political debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321134834	It challenged the Members so much that there are two brief comments, Mr President. Orla Hav, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321134842	I am a little sorry that the rapporteur is not listening to the answers given at all. The answers given to the question which Mr. Jakob Sølvhøj asked, was it precisely that there was no legal basis for removing what one had to have searched for? There was a response to the fact that there are some municipalities which are too crowded with the allocation, but it is not an indication that what has already been measured can be removed. It's a little ghost stories that Enhedslisten is out with, and I don't think it's quite real. I'd like to ask if Mr. Jakob Sølvhøj really has such a logic that the group that we are handing out here should be held hostage in a system that they think is highly inappropriate in terms of living a decent life in the institutional world and having some extra choice. Should we take that group hostage and say: No, you can't visit Sølund Music Festival, because we can't make sure everyone can come? Is that fair?
ParlaMint-DK_20170321134946	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321134947	I don't know what the hostage-taking was supposed to be. And I would say that if you want to solve that problem you could, for example. have supported the proposal made by Enhedslisten in the last session, which was to ensure a minimum right for all citizens. A solution that says that a small group of citizens who can afford to pay for their own escorts are now being taken into account at the expense of citizens who cannot afford and who may even be at risk of deteriorating their conditions, I think is contrary to the way we normally think of welfare societies. So there is no hostage taking here. On the contrary, it is a political intention that we should include many of the rights of escorts and not just the few.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321135034	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321135034-2	The truth is that there is a very large group which has not had the opportunity to participate in the activities they would like to take in addition to what is already planned and for which they are searched. So it is really a hostage-taking of a group which needs a little extra support and which we thereby guarantee the possibility of this individual consideration, namely that they can choose the escort that allows them to cultivate an interest they have. It is described as if it is very expensive proposals. I do not agree that this needs to be the case. My knowledge of the group here is that they have quite a variety of interests, which can be covered within a wide range of economics, and some have an ability and a willingness to participate in the festival so that they save up. Shouldn't that really be an option? Then I shall finally point to the last group. There are a number of people around in our institutional world who have been granted quite large compensations. Should they not have the opportunity to use that compensation to sweeten their own lives rather than to wait for the money to stand and wait for some heirs at some point to be happy that there was a compensation that their relatives were given but had no opportunity to use. Is that fair, sir? Jakob Sølvhøj Mound?
ParlaMint-DK_20170321135153	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321135153-2	With that logic, we could, of course, dismantle quite a large part of our welfare society if we thought that those who had to be taken into account were those who had inherited money or received compensation, so I do not share that view at all. I know, sir. Orla Hav has a past as the mayor of the region, and we have seen a movement after the municipal reform, where there was, I say, not good, but in many places reasonable budgets, which meant that within the budgets that were in the settlement offers there was an opportunity to get escorts on holiday. This narrowed down just as slowly when responsibility was passed on to the municipalities because savings were made in this area. That is why a number of municipalities took advantage of the illegal collection of payments from citizens, for that is what was at issue. And that is why there are municipalities that are today wobbling with their budgets because they have to pay compensation from the narrow budgets to the citizens from whom they have charged illegal user charges. So there has been a move towards the fact that what was previously a common good and financed by the public sector has become something that is financed by the individual, and that is in the direction we are now pushing again.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321135305	The President coughs a little if the time is up. Then there is time for a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321135312	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech, which I found very interesting. And what I thought was really interesting was the amendment that the rapporteur said the Enhedslisten would put forward in relation to the monitoring. After all, the Danish People's Party has proposed the introduction of a legal basis for continuing the practice that has been practiced so far before the ruling of the Court of Justice, and it has not been possible to do so. We will then be told that it will cost between 80 million and 80 million. kr. and 240 million kr. And that is why I am interested to hear the rapporteur where Enhedslisten has found the money for funding.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321135349	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321135350	In other words, the questioner can be confident that we will point to funding when we put the proposal forward. We always do. What amount we would like to point out, we have not yet made up our minds. You could say that 80-240 million. kr. This is quite a span, and it is a bit like the kind of calculations that we were presented with when we dealt with the question of what we are talking about here, which is accompanying us, would cost. We were also told there that it could almost cost from 800 million. kr. to 2 billion. kr. So I would say I'm not always quite comfortable with the way you count in the Ministry of Social Affairs. I'll admit it. But if it is now 80 million. kr. or the 240 million We are going to look into our amendments in greater detail and the questioner can be confident that there will be funding.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321135443	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321135443-2	Well, that is because I think the parties to the agreement are very interested in where the money should come from when the rapporteur takes the floor and says that an amendment will be tabled. It is, of course, the great challenge if the municipalities cannot be given the power to continue their practice before the judgment of the Court of Justice. Then I would like to ask you about the previous proposal on minimum rights, because we would really like to give citizens the opportunity to go on holiday too, and the challenge is that we have one large cash box. This must also be linked, if you say so, and there are some priorities that we, as politicians, must take on. So in relation to the minimum rights: what will it cost and how will Enhedslisten finance the minimum rights?
ParlaMint-DK_20170321135532	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321135533	In other words, what it will cost is precisely difficult to answer on the basis of the very, very strange calculations we have received from the Ministry of Social Affairs. I think the questioner will agree with me that the average price we were told during the negotiations, namely that it costs DKK 42 000. For a week at the cottage, it doesn't seem credible. But in the same way, when the calculations from the Ministry of Social Affairs are as they are, we have to try to hit an appropriate amount. And again, the questioner can be quite confident that we will find sensible funding. It could, for example, be done. I would like to ask the Commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that there is a great deal of money in the area of taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321135613	Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321135616	Thank you for Enhedslisten's rapporteur speech. I'd like to ask you something to learn a little bit more about Enhedslisten's thinking in this area. As I understand it, Enhedslisten does not want to give young disabled people an opportunity to sweeten their lives by spending some of their money buying themselves for extra companionship. Really? Does the Enhedslisten simply take the view that there should be no freedom for disabled people to decide for themselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20170321135657	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321135658	We are of the opinion that all young people, adults and the elderly with disabilities should have that opportunity. As I wrote in my reply to Mr. Orla Hav a moment ago, it's been like that. When you've been peeing over at Sølund Musik-Festival, it's perfectly justified. I kind of get it. I hear that many rapporteurs are very concerned about this. This is due to the fact that this was something that citizens were paid for in the past and were searched for through their accommodation offers. The accompanying documents were within the budget. We are now in a situation in which this obviously has to be reserved for a few, namely those who can afford to pay for themselves. I think this is an unfair way of setting up our welfare system. It is not because we are not going to go to a festival or a holiday under any citizens, or I know what. It is precisely because we believe that we have a common responsibility to create funding, so everyone has the opportunity and not just those who can afford to pay for themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321135801	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321135802	I can hear that we simply do not agree on this. I simply do not understand that the Enhedslisten cannot see that for the individual disabled it can be a huge plus to be allowed to decide for themselves what their money is to be spent on. We know that quite ordinary young people actually enjoy when they can take a leisure job and have some money that they can decide for themselves how they want to spend. In the same way, I think that this group of disabled people also feels happy to be able to decide that they will buy something. Does the rapporteur not agree with me on these points?
ParlaMint-DK_20170321135846	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321135848	If there's something I'm not in favour of, it's patronage. I fully agree that it is right that each young or adult or elderly person should be able to decide for themselves what they want with their lives, how they want to take holidays, etc. I just think it is a strange society that we shall have if this right is to be reserved for those who can afford to pay for themselves, but not for those who cannot afford it. The questioner knows very well what is the situation with regard to the income of young people who have received early retirement after 2003. How could they pay for a week's vacation when the Minister of Social Affairs believes that the price is DKK 42,000.? They cannot do so, and so we will have unfair discrimination. That is why it is a bad proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321135934	Thank you, sir. Jakob Sølvhøj Mound. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Laura Lindahl for the Liberal Alliance. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321135943	The legislative proposals here give effect to the agreement on the revision of the adult provisions of the Services Act. The legislative proposals contain a number of improvements to update the legislation to allow for group-based offers, clarify the rules to reduce the administrative burden, strengthen citizens' legal certainty, etc. L 151 also guarantees the possibility for certain institutions to offer the possibility of buying extra accompaniment in connection with holidays or events. This is a very good and necessary flexibility which has been demanded. We in the Liberal Alliance believe that these are really positive improvements in the Services Act that have been agreed and, of course, we support the legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321140026	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jakob Sølvhøj Mound. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321140031	L 151 has the peculiarity that it is not part of the Service Act. This is funny because it was negotiated as part of the review of the adult regulations. Could the rapporteur say something about why it has not been incorporated as part of the Services Act, but as a legislative proposal for itself? Should this perhaps be about getting rid of the general rules of complaint and supervision laid down in the Services Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20170321140100	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321140102	Now I was not myself involved in the negotiations in the autumn and in the discussions that have been held about whether it should be as an independent legislative proposal or as part of the Services Act. I do not know what has happened in the negotiating room itself. But I do not imagine that it should be about trying to avoid any appeals or other. But we can clarify that during the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321140130	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321140132	I am delighted if that is not the case. So I would like to ask the rapporteur something: if that is the case that it has not been intended, is there anything wrong with us adding in the proposal now before us a provision on supervision and ordinary redress? Then you're beyond the boring suspicion I might have to travel here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321140155	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321140156	I cannot stand here on the platform and negotiate on the basis of what is now in place. We made a deal in the fall. All parties in the Folketing have agreed on this except the Enhedslisten. I assume that the considerations that have been raised in the negotiating room will be taken into account here. And I guess that's what we're agreed on.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321140219	Thank you to Mrs Laura Lindahl. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Torsten Gejl for the Alternative. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321140226	Thank you. The proposal for a law amending the law on social services, the law on social security and the law on legal certainty and administration in the social field, with which we are working today, has been described and explained quite well by the rapporteurs who have stood in this chair, up to my coming. So I don't want to go into it so much. I just want to say a few things that I appreciate in this bill. It is a question of clarifying the purpose of the Services Act. I'm gonna read you a few moments... more emphasis on rehabilitation and inclusion... the individual citizen can maintain his current level of functioning and his own resources, and the aim is to provide compensation, care and care. In addition, it is proposed that the new approach should promote inclusion in society, including helping to increase the participation of the individual citizen in education, employment and social relations. Finally, it is proposed that the purpose of the aid should be to ensure that citizens are given a coherent and comprehensive approach that responds to the needs of the aid. I really like the fact that this has been clarified. I have a company of my own I don't run it myself at the moment; I don't have time for that which works with over 50 disability organizations and also settlements. What I think the most progressive are doing is trying to move from protecting to supporting the citizens who are with them. I think that is an excellent development. I like that it's supported really powerful here. Otherwise, there are a few things I just want to mention. This is true, for example. the creation of social emergency services in the context of action against citizens with mental disorders. We also welcome the fact that the municipal council should be given the opportunity to allocate an aid or consumer benefit to citizens with a temporary disability for a shorter and limited period of time. And we welcome the simplification of the measurement system to help cover necessary additional costs, so that aid is paid in the form of a standard amount, if it is probable that additional costs are within a certain range, instead of this struggle from receipt to receipt, which often needs to be passed through in order to recover its expenses. One last thing is the introduction of a system of approval and supervision into the social system of associations and private companies wishing to act as employers in the schemes. This means that when you get an association to control your BPA, there's a little bit of control over it. We like that too. Then there is the introduction of notice of at least 14 weeks from the municipal council's decision to disallow or reduce aid under a number of provisions of the Service Act, which will be combined with a particularly rapid right of appeal to the Ankestyrelsen. It is, after all, the sympathetic motion for a resolution tabled by the DF which we see as being implemented. I really think it's fine. I am not speaking on behalf of DF, but it is nice to see this, and we have agreed that this is how it should be implemented. There is one thing we need to keep a very close eye on. This is L 151, which we have discussed a lot. In other words, once you have completed the holiday you may have visited, you can also buy social pedagogy help from your own organization for a possible holiday in addition. In the evaluation in 2019, we have to keep an eye on the fact that this doesn't mean that some citizens are dropping this holiday that was intended for them in the first place. We need to be good at designing that evaluation tool so that we can see that it doesn't happen. After all, we have written very, very clearly that there must be no deterioration in service here, so if any municipalities do so, I would advise them to think really, really well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321140601	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321140604	It has emerged from the debate that there is a gap in the Service Act, which means that there are citizens who are at risk of being searched for zero-hour escorts and thus can be paid for accompanying them from day one. I just want to hear from the rapporteur whether he will not consider supporting an amendment from the Enhedslist that a guaranteed minimum is included in the bill here, so that it is quite certain that no citizen will be in the situation that they alone will be able to have a holiday escort if they pay for themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321140649	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321140650	We want to be involved in discussing how that gap can be closed, and this is, of course, a discussion with the conciliation parties and, in the second instance, with my group. But I think it is timely to talk about it. Well, we just have to look at how that hole can be closed. But to stand here and promise to support a motion for a resolution that has not yet been financed, I think it is just too much.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321140716	Thank you, sir. Torsten Gejl and warmly welcome Mrs Marianne Jelved from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321140726	Thank you, sir. President. It has been a very long road or a long journey, as it has become modern to say in these times, to get to the legal treatment we are doing now. In fact, two different ministers have served us on the long journey, and there have been many changes in the first proposals we had from the former Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior, and so on to what we are dealing with today. It is, of course, an expression of the fact that we have really worked very hard and very coordinated, and it is positively understood that we have worked together across the parties and tried to find solutions that can lift legislation and a matter such as the one we are dealing with here, so that it will be an improvement for those citizens who are dependent on the legislation we are dealing with now. Previous preventive measures have been made possible, both on a group basis and on an individual basis, depending on the situation in which you are a citizen. And that is, of course, fine, and we will follow it very closely in the Radical Left to see what we can learn from it. There has also been a simplification of the way in which additional expenditure is measured. We believe that this will also be of benefit to the citizens, otherwise we would not have been in favour of it, and we also expect a great deal from the fact that it will be easier and quicker to achieve the social tasks that lie in this area. Finally, we have had an early warning system, which has already been described here from the platform of former rapporteurs, and it is again something that has gone from a desire for suspensive effect in relation to certain paragraphs' amendments and then to an alert, in which the Ankestyrelsen now has to assess whether there is a basis for citizens to be right in their possible complaint about the benefit which the municipal council or employee of the municipality's administration has chosen to give to the citizen. It is, of course, a matter in which we will follow very closely how it is implemented. Because that is another way to do it, that is, where there is an alert with 14 weeks' grace for the Ankestyrelsen, and as I already get many inquiries from citizens who have complained to the Ankestyrelsen and say that it is dragging on and dragging on with the handling of their case, I can be in doubt. But we have received a description from the Minister that the Ankestyrelsen considers that in the vast majority of cases they can reach it within 14 weeks. But that is one thing that I am sure the rapporteurs will follow very carefully. At least I will do so myself and assess whether it is appropriate or whether it should actually be changed. Because if it does not work as intended and as has been described in the law and to us in the negotiations, then something is wrong and then we have to change it relatively quickly. But we have to see how it's going to work. We did not get the theme of monitoring, and I can tell the citizens outside Christiansborg that it is something that has really taken a lot of time for us to discuss. And I think it is absolutely right, as the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, Mrs Karina Adsbøl, has said, that it has been a very strong wish to have surveillance with. So that was not possible in this round, and it has ultimately been the economy that has been crucial to it, and so I have to say from experience that the economy can be solved. Now we didn't get it done in this round, but I'm pretty sure we won't let it go with surveillance, because there are a lot of citizens who need the help that lies in the possibility of monitoring. So it is also about us jointly trying to figure out how to finance this type of extension of the law if necessary. Finally, we have had the social-educational accompaniment for holidays, which has taken a great deal of the time between the rapporteurs with questions, among other things. by Enhedslisten's rapporteur. I do not believe that this is a deterioration. We can, of course, discuss this at length and in depth. And Enhedslisten's rapporteur is arguing that it is a deterioration that there is not a minimum right for all citizens. We have also been quite thorough about this, and I have at least come to the realization that we cannot just create a minimum right. In other words, it sounds as if making minimum rights is something to be negotiated between two parties. But making a minimum right for people with disabilities in relation to accompanying schemes has not even been calculated, but we could then try to make calculations on that. That is why I do not think it is as simple as it sounds when it is said in this Chamber. This is not a simple issue, and I am in favour of living in a liberal society and providing opportunities for individual decisions depending on the individual citizen, so that you do not have to live in a place of residence with other people who are different from you. Therefore, solving these types of issues is really a very delicate balancing exercise, and therefore it also requires us to be in a very close dialogue with the citizens around which we can inspire how these types of challenges can be solved. Because I don't think we're alone in seeing the dilemmas. So are these the right solutions we have found? Of course we do not know that, but we have made a great deal of effort and effort to find the right solutions, and we have made a great deal of effort to reach agreement across all the parties, and the cooperation that may be in a committee such as the Committee on Social Affairs, I think, is a pleasure. We hope, of course, that these are good solutions, but that can only be shown in the future, and I must also guarantee from this that very close attention will be paid to how the law is being implemented and what effect it will have on what we thought and agreed it would be. And that is because we want to follow up on the good intentions we have within the relatively reasonable framework that is being set. However, we are following the implementation of the bill and we will be in close cash with the citizens who use the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321141411	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321141416	This concerns the issue of the allocation of minimum rights. I am a little surprised that the rapporteur says that it is very difficult to do so, we have it today. After all, there are thousands of citizens with a physical disability who are subject to a minimum provision. It does exist; it is very clearly defined. However, precisely in the announcement of accompanying measures, social pedagogy is excluded; in other words, the citizens who have the greatest need of accompanying measures are thus exempt from the minimum provisions currently in force. What makes it technically difficult to set a minimum here when it can be done for people with a physical disability? I simply do not understand that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321141502	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321141503	It is, of course, a question of whether we should say that all citizens are entitled to five working days' holiday with social education accompanying them. It is, after all, a minimum right that is difficult to give in my view. Because it is not right for us to grant the minimum right to everyone. Some people are able to pay it themselves, and I really do not see why a minimum right of this kind is a matter of legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321141539	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321141541	The answer puzzles me a little, and I am not going to make any good ideas, but why is it that people who have a physical disability and are entitled to accompany them do not have to put their own wallets out? I simply do not understand the point of view. Maybe I'm too worried. People sometimes are, and it is not always right, but I am worried that there are municipalities that want to save on this service. If the rapporteur is not worried about that, then surely there is no problem with us going in and making a provision to ensure it. Today, in a speech by the Chairman of the LEV on Altinget, it is proposed that supervision be carried out to ensure that the citizen takes advantage of the right granted by the decisions of the Ankestyrelsen to receive accompanying documents before he can start charging the user. If we are so safe, is there no problem in introducing supervision that is lacking in the legislative proposal today?
ParlaMint-DK_20170321141650	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321141651	Well, you can supervise in many different ways. After all, we are a kind of supervisory authority. After all, we are also contacted by the citizens who have gained experience with the legislation, and we take it up as rapporteurs in various ways. There are different ways to do that. So it's not like there's secrets in that sense. That is what I am saying here and we will follow very closely how this law is being implemented, because there have been many attempts to find the good solutions together. Maybe we haven't done it, but then we'll have to keep an eye on it. I think there is a problem in general, and I would actually have said something about that, but now I am so inspired to say it here because of the question put by the questioner, namely that it is also a problem that our society is increasingly suffering from a mistrust between the municipal system and the citizens who depend on the municipal system. And it is not only when we talk about people with disabilities; it is also in many other areas. I think that is a huge problem in our society, that is to say that there is the mistrust that is at least regularly encountered between the municipal system of the municipal council, the case officers, the employees of the municipalities and the citizens. I think we need to take that up in some way and discuss how to prevent it or reverse that trend.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321141808	Thank you to Mrs Marianne Jelved. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Trine Torp of the SF. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321141817	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking the parties behind the political agreement which forms the basis for the two legislative proposals that we are discussing today. It was a long process of negotiation, too, longer than I have been in, because it is years ago, as others have also explained, and what we were supposed to do was to reach an agreement in the balance between, for example. the need to simplify legislation and the right of citizens to a concrete individual assessment of their needs; a balance between flexible opportunities for assistance and ensuring the necessary compensation for, for example, a disability. For SF, it is important to ensure that people with disabilities have the opportunity for an active and participating life and that they have codecision. It is an important principle that support is provided on the basis of a concrete individual assessment of needs and assumptions and that citizens' opportunities for compensation, aid and support are not impaired. With the review of adult regulations, we in the SF are pleased that inclusion, rehabilitation, holistic action and compensation are an important objective. The emphasis is on early preventive interventions for citizens with easy disability or easier social problems, and provision is made for the temporary allocation of support, aids and consumer goods, with the aim that citizens who are otherwise not eligible for Visited Services under the Services Act may also be helped to fend for themselves and develop their own resources and networks. At the same time, there is now a legal framework for municipalities to be able to create and operate emergency services for citizens suffering from mental illness, thereby extending preventive action to that group of citizens. The revision of the law provides for simplification and debureaucratisation, including easier processing in relation to aids and consumer goods in cases where the need is obvious and in order to cover additional costs which can be simplified, by paying a standard amount at two different rates, rather than by proving and measuring each additional cost. We are also pleased that there will now be an authorisation system for companies and associations which will be responsible for the employer's function under a BPA scheme and that they will be subject to the approval and operational supervision of the Social Inspectorate and that subsidies to these companies and associations will now be paid back to prevent abuse of the scheme. We still have a discussion for the benefit of lack of legal basis for cash grants for monitoring. I note that after discussions with KL, the Ministry will come up with some possible solutions. In the SF, we are certainly willing to find a solution for the benefit of citizens, including the necessary funding. It has also been important for us in the legislative review to strengthen the legal certainty of citizens, which is why we are very positive about the introduction of a minimum notice of 14 weeks for decisions to disallow or reduce a number of forms of assistance and a particularly rapid appeal procedure within the Ankestyrelsen. In addition, it introduces a means of redress for citizens who have been refused residence in shelters and welfare homes, which will also help to increase legal certainty for a vulnerable group of citizens. As far as L 151 is concerned, there has been a desire from many to provide for the purchase of social education accompanying staff from citizens' accommodations. For the SF, it has been important that this possibility should not be at the expense of the support provided by the searched offer to citizens, i.e. that it does not have negative consequences for other residents on the accommodation offer, and that the general level of social pedagogy accompanying without self-payment should not be impaired by this possibility. If we can in any way clarify it further in the text of the law, that is to say that the possibility of purchase must not mean that the searched offer is reduced, it would be very good, because it was the clear intention of the parties to the agreement that the possibility of purchase should not have negative consequences for employees, and certainly not for residents. There is a concern in the hearing that citizens are not able to provide their own legal certainty in a purchase/sale situation and that there is a need for supervision, control and redress. I think we should take this seriously and I think that we should discuss in the further reading of the committee whether we can find solutions to it. For who is overseeing that a resident does not agree to spend all his savings on a trip without having an insight into the financial consequences? Who monitors that the 24-hour offer provides the necessary social pedagogy accompanying services before permission to sell accompanying services to the residents can be obtained. And who supervises the possible use of force in a holiday stay with a social pedagogy escort? The SF supports the bill as part of the contract circle, but we also hope that in committee we can continue to work on some of the concerns expressed in the consultation answers, particularly about social education accompanying them.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321142320	Thank you. So there is a brief comment from Mr. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321142324	First of all, I would like to say that I welcome the comments on supervision. I also think that this is one of the major problems, and I hope that the conciliation circle will be able to reach agreement on this, otherwise the Enhedslisten might help with a proposal that can be supported. What I would now like to hear was that when the rapporteur says that this must not be at the expense of the accompanying measures that have been taken so far in the tenders, does the rapporteur not agree that this security does not actually exist when there is no minimum provision? If, among the rapporteur's colleagues, we recognise that there is a gap in legislation when we can search to zero, then there is no question that we have the problem that we do not have the right to vote in local elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321142421	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321142422	In fact, we have done a great deal in the negotiations to ensure that, what can be said, is done. I do not know whether I will use the expression that there is a gap in the legislation, but it is true that there is no absolute certainty that this will not happen. We have tried to decouple it by saying that the decision in principle of the Ankestyrelsen must be explicitly stated in the comments to the law, and it should have a quite considerable influence, because it says that the municipalities must take a position on the need to accompany it. You can't just make a standard of service called zero. They must take a position in the specific case. We have also been told that this must not be at the expense of what can be said, the other residents who stay at home in the institution, and we have agreed that there must be an evaluation. I would really like to help influence that, and I hope that we will also have the opportunity to link up that evaluation, because it requires that we have a fairly solid basis, that is, an enlightened basis, and know what the level is now and what it is for some places you do not give any kind of companionship at all, so that we know the baseline, so to say, we have to evaluate it on. So we have at least tried to decorate it as well as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321142549	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321142550	I agree that it may be a good thing that a reference has been made to the decision of principle by the Ankestyrelsen, but that does not change the legal basis, because it is a right in any case. So in this way it does not create a change unless you also have a supervision that ensures that you actually do it. But the second thing I want to ask the rapporteur is this structure: the greater the impairment of function, the higher the payment. Is it not a very strange construction that has been made that the citizen who has such a far-reaching disability that she needs more help than her neighbor in the settlement offer has to pay more for a week's holiday? Isn't it a complete distortion that the greater the disability you have, the greater should your user fee be? Isn't that something that can be looked at in the further legal proceedings? I think it is a glaring discrimination that we should at least do something about.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321142652	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321142653	It is quite true that this is the risk of it, and that is one of the things that we must also follow in the implementation of the law: what is it really going to mean? Because I have the impression that the citizens who have the greatest need of help are also those who, through the searched benefit, are already being searched for social pedagogy companionship. Maybe I'm wrong, but that's one of the things we have to follow. Who is taking advantage of that opportunity, and who is going to be left out of support? Because if there's something I'm concerned about, it's that people, whether they have a disability or not, have the right to a free life. It is not certain that the other residents with whom you live are also very fond of heavy metal concerts and that you can agree that this is what you are going to do. There has to be this opportunity to have a free life, even if you have a disability. I will then keep in mind whether this actually means that those who have the greatest need of help will have to bear some very high costs.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321142758	Thank you to Mrs Trine Torp. There are no more brief comments. Then we go to the last rapporteur, the rapporteur from the Conservative People's Party, Mr. Orla Østerby. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321142809	Thank you. After all, L 150 is the revision of the adult provision of the Service Act and has actually taken 3 years. Everyone has been involved, municipalities, interest groups, etc. The revision of the Service Act is linked to the Rate Pool Agreement. That makes clear the political intention that has been. The parties to the agreement agree that the help provided by the adult provision of the Services Act must ensure that citizens are given a coherent and comprehensive effort to respond to the needs of the citizen. The aid must be organised on the basis of a concrete individual assessment of the needs and prerequisites of the citizen in cooperation with the individual. The second part is that the parties to the agreement agree that, following the adult provision of the Services Act, assistance should help the citizen, as far as possible, to develop positively and help him to help himself. The law must facilitate the daily lives of the citizen and improve the quality of life, and help prevent the problems of the individual from getting worse. Well, this is kind of an effort for each citizen to be self-reliant as much as possible. The focus on early holistic, coherent interventions must therefore be increased. It is also agreed that in a number of areas the adult provision of the Services Act should be simplified and debureaucised for the benefit of both citizens and municipalities. Debureaucratisation will facilitate municipal case managers and ensure a quick decision for citizens. After all, the parties to the agreement have also agreed on a number of initiatives: amendment of the provisions of the Services Act, early preventive action, simplification of rules, debureaucratisation, purchase of social pedagogical support, aid arrangements and data. The data are of course very important because it means that we get them back to Christiansborg and to the Ministry of Social Affairs, where there will be an opportunity to look at these schemes and see if this money is being spent in the right way. The agreement also provides for a budget of 19.4 million. kr. in 2018 for this and 18.5 million. kr. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. There are some additional costs in this area. If we look at L 151, it's buy-in. It has been much debated here today. What one can say is that one gives the citizen an opportunity to have self-determination, that is to say, to decide on his own life, and that it is also in the agreement that the purchase of social pedagogy accompanying him on holiday must be beyond the effort under Section 85 of the Social Services Act for which residents are searched during the day. Suppliers of the scheme shall be responsible for ensuring that the use of the purchase scheme shall not lead to adverse consequences for citizens in 24-hour offers which do not avail themselves of the option of purchase. That means that those who are left are still gone, that they have the employees they are about to have. In this, too, I think, is an important thing. It is that the parties to the agreement agree to allocate 1 million. kr. Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 laying down general provisions on the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund, the Cohesion Fund, the Cohesion Fund and the Cohesion Fund and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1083/2006 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. I think that is very important in the light of the debate that has taken place here today. Then I think there is a lack of confidence that the municipalities of the country will deal with this in a proper way. There is a suspicion, I think, especially from the Enhedslisten, that the municipalities will then try to cheat as soon as they can get to it. It is not in the municipal world that I come from that that is how it is going on, and we must, of course, pay attention as politicians at the castle, if anyone is taking advantage of this, and that is what has been proposed in the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321143240	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jakob Silver Mound. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321143243	I do not think I have said anything about the fact that I believe that the municipalities are cheating. That is to say, when KL was able to prove in a survey a few years ago that there were 18 or 19 people in the municipalities who had not set aside a penny for social pedagogic support, I did not say that this was cheating, because that is what the legislation has been like. My concern is that this is being used to lower service levels. And does the rapporteur think that by doing this there is any guarantee that municipalities will not be able to lower the level of service if they think they are spending too much money on disability?
ParlaMint-DK_20170321143331	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321143333	I repeat: the purchase of social pedagogy accompanying holidays must be in addition to the effort under Section 85 on social services for which residents are visited during the day. Well, that's what's beyond this offer that the citizen has today that you can buy now. And there I have the confidence that the municipalities are treating the citizens as they have done so far. And if it is the case that KL has noticed a few municipalities that do not meet the requirements of the Service Act, then we have to get to grips with the individual municipalities. But I do not think there is any reason to suspect 98 municipalities here, and that makes no sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321143424	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321143425	That is precisely the problem of what goes beyond what I have tried to drill in sometimes. The problem is that you can search the citizen to zero, and that is why if you are searched to zero, one day is also zero, and that means that the individual citizen pays from day one. Is that fair? And if that is not fair, will the rapporteur take the initiative to ensure that there is something to add to the purchase? That is what is at the heart of the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321143502	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321143504	Well, if the citizen is searched to zero after section 85 in a municipality, that's the way it is. Then it is not certain that the visitation is okay by the municipality, but I am sure that with the system we have today and with all the organisations involved in disability, this will come to light, i.e. if there are some municipalities that do not meet the legal requirements. So that's why I'm completely calm, and I still have the best thoughts about our municipalities, about how they manage this in the right way.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321143544	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then I give the floor to the Minister for Children and Social Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321143557	Thank you for that, President. I would like to start by expressing my sincere thanks to the rapporteurs and also to the receipt of the two legislative proposals which implement the agreement on the revision of the adult provisions of the Services Act. I would also like to thank you very much for the good and constructive debate we have had here today. This is an important debate, because it is very important for people with disabilities. I also know that I can hear from several people that the audit agreement has not gone as far as some would have liked, for example. in relation to taking monitoring into account in Section 95 of the Service Act on cash grants for the recruitment of assistants or to having automatic suspensive effect during the handling of appeals by the Agency as part of the alert system. I would like to sign to the Danish People's Party and Mrs Karina Adsbøl, who has taken it up many times along the way, and who also assumes financial responsibility. Because it is precisely the case that it is estimated to cost between 80 and 240 million. kr., and it has been difficult to point to funding in the debate. However, the agreement represents what all the parties around the table could agree on, and I think that we have a good result, which is a step in the right direction. For example: We strengthen citizens' legal certainty by introducing an early warning regulation, and we make a number of regulatory simplifications and some debureaucratisation, among other things. a simplified measurement system for the additional cost allowance. I think it was sir. Orla Hav, who said that this is a difficult balance, because on the one hand there is concern for the individual, that is to say to ensure that there is absolutely necessary help, and on the other hand there is also concern for the economy and for the degree of detail. I think that was some of it, too, sir. Torsten Gejl called the receipt to the receipt, where you have to document your expenses all the time. Then, with this bill, we also give residents on accommodation offers the opportunity to buy their staff, as they know, on vacation. These are therefore two legislative proposals, which contain a number of significant improvements for both citizens and municipalities, and which I am pleased to note that at least the majority of Parliament's parties support. I am, of course, available to answer any questions which the committee may wish to clarify during the committee's proceedings.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321143825	There are brief comments. The first question is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321143829	Thank you to the Minister for her speech. After all, it is no secret that we have not solved everything in this matter, and that is why I am thinking a little about what we should do in the future. Well, how can we meet afterwards? Now, of course, we have to get some notes, as far as I understand from the Ministry's official work, and I have also asked for something about the economy and about BPA. Because in my world, it would be logical to reinstate a legal basis for the practice that has been practiced so far. For some municipalities, although there was no legal basis for monitoring, and that means that they also have the means to do so, one should think because they used that practice in the past. So that's why I thought it would be a good way to do it, but obviously that's not possible. But what other ways does the Minister think we can solve this in the future? Because we have a challenge with regard to monitoring and also with regard to the matters that have been put on the Minister's table.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321143934	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321143936	I fully respect the fact that there are parties that have greater ambitions and that there are also more parties that have it. I think it is a good thing that we have succeeded in implementing that agreement and that it has been faithfully implemented. I was not in the debates in the autumn, but I know that it was discussed. I also know it didn't come with me. My best bet is when we talk about an amount of 80-240 million. kr. that it will be a matter of financial law. In other words, when you go to the financial law negotiations, you can take the proposal under your arms, because we are up to a significant figure. However, it is also important for me to say that I respect the fact that there are parties that would like to go further than what the draft law translates today from the agreement that we have in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321144032	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321144034	I simply do not understand the Minister's answer. The minister talks about greater ambition and about solving the challenges that exist. Is it to be understood that the Minister has no ambition to find solutions in this area, but is simply referring to the Finance Act? The BPA scheme has been financed under a pool of rates, and I would therefore say that it is within our circle to find a solution to this challenge. I have some difficulty in interpreting whether the Minister does not want to find a solution to this when the Minister refers to the Finance Act. However, the BPA scheme is financed under the pool of rates, so I think that it is under the pool of rates that we must somehow find a common solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321144114	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321144115	First of all, we are looking into whether solutions can be found together with KL, and that is why we cannot deliver a precise note. I can't say if it's gonna work out. I think this is going to be very difficult, and I just have to say that when we are up to the order of 80 to 240 million. kr., then it's more than I can immediately put on the ticket. But I also accept and respect that there is a political desire to discuss it. When I am then asked where it will be possible to do so, I am actually simply replying in all its simplicity that it will be an opportunity to bring it into the Financial Law negotiations in the autumn.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321144158	The next question is Mr. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321144202	When we dealt with the issue of escorts back in May last year, a working group was set up which proved to be the fastest working in Danish history. It was completed several months before it had to, because with the devil's violence and power I would say that something had to be set up for the Service Law negotiations. One of the things that may be a little unclear today is what it actually costs for a citizen who is to be accompanied on a one-week holiday. There has been a calculation from the Ministry, as I understand it, which shows that it costs on average a couple and forty thousand for one week's companionship for a citizen. Is that a figure that the Minister can confirm?
ParlaMint-DK_20170321144249	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321144250	I have to admit that from up here I do not know the exact figures, but if a question is put to it during the committee procedure, we will, of course, endeavour to answer as precisely as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321144300	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321144302	It will be asked. How much will the Minister estimate that a young person who lives on a settlement offer and has his early retirement pension alone can live on an early retirement pension which, if they are less than 35 years of age, is considerably lower if the pension is granted after 2003? can be paid out of his early retirement pension to pay the allowance and how many days will it cover?
ParlaMint-DK_20170321144339	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321144340	It is going to be very speculative, and I cannot give you any indication of that, because it entirely depends on what kind of situation the individual is in. When it is that today we have Bill No. L 151 on accompanying, so it's about buying-in. It has also been said in many places that it is not therefore a question of reducing the core performance, and I am in favour of this as well. There are also several rapporteurs who say: If the intentions of the parties to the agreement are not fully followed, and we can see it in the evaluation in 2019 • it was Mrs Karina Adsbøl who said it • we must take it down and see if we can make changes. We have made an agreement for which we in the parties are on the goal, and then it is clear that we are also ready to follow up on that agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321144433	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs, Internal Affairs and the Committee on Children's Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321144449	The debate is open and I give the floor to Mrs Karin Gaardsted as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321144513	In the foreseeable future, more projects will be carried out to exploit, for example: hydropower and raw materials in Greenland's underground, then we must prepare the legislation for more health and safety challenges. This means that an even greater effort is needed by the Labour Inspectorate, because places need to be monitored, not least because in several cases there will be large-scale projects with imported labour, where, as a rule, there are probably not the same safety requirements for jobs as otherwise in Greenland. It is important not to relax the supervision of other companies, i.e. those companies in Greenland which are already under the control of the Labour Inspectorate when the extraction of raw materials is taking off in earnest. Therefore, more money is needed for the Danish Labour Inspectorate in Greenland. These additional funds are proposed by the government, by rights holders and others authorized to exploit, etc. Under the Raw Materials Act and the Hydropower Act, a fee is payable to cover the costs of supervision and regulatory care of the Labour Inspectorate in connection with raw materials and hydroelectric activities, and it is also intended that some of the actual costs incurred by the Labour Inspectorate in carrying out supervision must be paid in this way. We agree with that in the Social Democratic Party. The legislation is introduced to prevent Danish taxpayers from having to pay the extra costs. We agree with that too. In addition, Greenland's Self-Government has wanted the ILO Mining Convention to be ratified for Greenland. The Convention stresses that employees must be able to leave work in the event of danger, and if this right, which they then receive with the Convention, is violated, employees must be able to obtain compensation. This is, of course, crucial to the safety and health of employees. In the context of mining and quarrying, hazardous substances and materials will be used, and the draft law makes it quite clear that the Minister for Employment has the right to lay down rules on the use of substances and materials, including in particular: requirements for substitution of hazardous substances and materials. There will also be an increase in the use of dangerous chemical substances and materials. Here again the Factory Inspectorate is at work because it is they who have to approve the use of these substances and materials if need arises, for example. in the case of future extraction projects. In the event of occupational injuries, which we do not hope will occur, but should it occur that is notified to the Labour Market Insurance Office, the bill lays down that this information should be passed on to the Labour Inspectorate in Greenland. The Social Democratic Party supports the bill, which in its entirety helps to ensure the working conditions of workers, to ensure their health and safety and that they are not exposed to unnecessary danger by dangerous chemicals and materials.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321144843	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next one on the platform is sir. Bent Bøgsted as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321144852	Thank you for that, President. Now the former rapporteur, Mrs Karin Gaardsted, has so well examined this proposal on working conditions in Greenland, and it is of course important for the efforts to be made in connection with raw materials, hydropower and large-scale projects there. We must, of course, ensure that the working environment is in order, and it is also according to Greenland's wishes. However, I shall not begin to repeat what Mrs Karin Gaardsted has said so well from up here. I think that would be a bit of a waste of time, but I just want to say that the Danish People's Party naturally supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321144935	Thank you to the rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Marcus Knuth as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321144941	Thank you, President. I would say the same thing, namely that there is no reason to repeat the fine summary given to us by Mrs Karin Gaardsted. So I would like to say that, of course, we also support this. We are very, very pleased that it has already been dealt with in Greenland and are pleased that the proposal enjoys broad support both in Greenland and in Denmark. Of course, we think it makes sense for the government with the bill to come up with a future assurance in relation to the increase in large-scale projects in Greenland, because security costs money. Against this background, it makes sense to introduce a fee so that the bill for future control does not end up with the Danish Government, but with the right-holders who want to carry out projects with the exploitation of hydropower and raw materials in Greenland. Among other things, it says: And it is very interesting that we must ensure that employees are able to leave work in the event of danger. This is something that I think we all agree with. So, of course, the Left supports the bill, and I should like to welcome the Conservatives and say that they do.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321145050	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Next in line, sir. Christian Juhl as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321145059	There are two laws at play here: the Law on Working Conditions and the Law on Occupational Safety and Health. The first thing I have noticed is that we will now help to provide the opportunity to introduce rules which in Denmark are a little popularly called the right to life, honour and welfare. In this case, we are talking about dangerous work, namely that a worker has the right to move away from an area where there is dangerous work, if that is the only way to protect himself. It should be a matter of course all over this globe. Unfortunately, it is not, and therefore it is important that the legislation is adapted to it, so it is the employer's duty to ensure that the safety and health conditions are fully sound and, if they are not, one has the right to move out of the area without any deterioration in one's conditions. That means, of course, that you get your salary and your allowances and are not fired for that reason and that, if that right is violated, you have the right to compensation. This means that if the employer does not care about it and you are exposed to unnecessary danger, you can also receive compensation for it. In addition, the focus is on rules for dealing with chemical substances. It is clear that safety data sheets and technical data sheets and other information provided by the supplier, but also, and above all, in my opinion, at least, workplace instructions from the employer must be in place. This is usually where there is a failure on the part of the employer because he does not fill in the employer's manuals, which are exactly about the workplace at which you are at, and which are thus much more precise than the more general things that come from the suppliers. In addition to that, the Minister for Employment can now lay down rules that substances or materials which may be dangerous or may impair safety and which are harmful to health may not be used, i.e.: a legal basis for banning dangerous substances. This is a debate we had last year here in Denmark, for example. About epoxy. There has not yet been a majority in favour of phasing out the use of epoxy in Denmark and making it illegal, but it will probably come someday. We have, for example. the old history of asbestos, in which we took the opportunity to ban a substance and dismantle the use of the substance. Here we still have a hanging party, at least in Denmark, and I would guess that they also have it in Greenland. That is why it is important that that right exists. Then it is important that the Factory Inspectorate also has the opportunity to know how many occupational injuries there are in a workplace, so that preventive work can take place, because unfortunately accidents happen sometimes and occupational injuries occur. Then I think it is a very good thing that it is now said that in such an impassable area as Greenland, the Labour Inspectorate or the Minister for Employment can charge the employers whose businesses are far from both the alpha route and the easily accessible areas. This means that the costs involved in the supervision are not only in relation to the supervision, but also to which I think is quite clearly described, transport, interpreter, translation, board and lodging can be charged to the employer. Perhaps it was a thought that we should also try to use a little more at home. There are some individual supervisions that we have at home, for which the employer pays, but one could of course impose it on employers just to say: okay, when there is effective supervision, and when effective supervision is needed, and that is certainly the case in some of the cases with the mines, it is therefore on the employer's account. I think that is a very good principle. Then I am in favour of us introducing ILO rules wherever we can, and of every time there is an improvement at international level, we ensure that it is implemented in Danish, Greenlandic and Faroese legislation, so that we also build those rights into the legislation, so that they apply to the workers who may work there, wherever they come from and whoever they are.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321145529	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next speaker is Mrs Laura Lindahl as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321145538	Thank you. In the Liberal Alliance, we also agree with the good and fine review of the draft law given by some of the previous rapporteurs. I can add that we are in fact pleased with any measures that save the Danish state extra costs, large and small, and that is why we in the Liberal Alliance can also support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321145601	Thank you to the rapporteur. I'm sorry! Come back here for a second! A brief comment has emerged from Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321145610	I would like to ask the Liberal Alliance rapporteur whether it should not be more appropriate to say that everything that can benefit the health and safety of workers will be done in full, and if there is some expenditure then it is good that we have saved some money. I believe that the main effort here is to ensure that no workers get hurt and destroy their health. And then there is a bedding, and by it I mean that if you turn it upside down, you have misunderstood what it is really about.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321145637	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321145639	That is a perfectly fair point, and it is actually the case that we in the Liberal Alliance also note that there is the side effect of saving the Danish state some extra costs, and we are also satisfied with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321145653	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Roger Matthisen as rapporteur for the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321145700	Thank you for that, President. We are dealing here with L 140, draft law amending the Law on Working Conditions in Greenland and the Law on Work Damage Protection in Greenland. I think there has been a fine review and some fine comments from the previous rapporteurs on the draft law. Greenland's Self-Government took over the raw material area with effect from 1 January 2010 and has the right to dispose of and exploit minerals in the underground in Greenland, which is why it is very, very good that Inatsisartut also wants to join the ILO ratification. I have one question which I may be able to answer from the Minister, and it is about the fact that the Labour Inspectorate did not object to the decision-making powers removed from supervision and transferred to the Ministry of Employment. The proposal for the amendment of the law states that it goes from the Labour Inspectorate to the Minister of Employment to the Ministry of Employment to the mandatory supervision, but is there any mandatory supervision here that may be disregarded or neglected because the legislation does not say that it should be fixed but that it can be fixed? It may be that it is just me who is pedantic with regard to the wording, but I would like to ask that in the interests of safety. Otherwise, we can agree to the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321145827	Thank you to the rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Martin Lidegaard as rapporteur for the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321145841	We are also in favour of the proposal from the radical side. It makes very good sense to be at the forefront of the development we see in the field of raw materials and in relation to hydropower. In addition, the investments in Greenland that we would like are not going quite as fast as we would have liked, but that should not prevent us from being in place when and if they were to come. And then we, like the Left, attach the utmost importance to the fact that this is a proposal that also enjoys the support of all parties in Greenland, and that is why we will also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321145913	Thank you to the rapporteur. Well, that's the ride to sir. Karsten Hønge as rapporteur for the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321145923	It is good that in this situation we have a parallel treatment in Greenland and in Denmark, and that the bill has support in Greenland. SF believes that it is a good principle to place some expenditure on those people and companies potentially able to earn on the projects. I think we could learn a little from that in Denmark. Like other rapporteurs, I am aware that it will now be said that an employee has the right to go away if it becomes too dangerous. I think it's a little funny, but I think the intention is okay.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321145959	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. The next speaker is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen as rapporteur for IA.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321150017	Thank you very much for the floor. Since the Act of Self-Government came into force, Greenland itself has been responsible for the raw material area, and Greenland, as you know, returned the area on 1 January 2010, resulting in a significant change in the former Danish-Greenland relationship and in the division of responsibilities in the raw materials area. Today, revenue from raw materials activities in Greenland is granted autonomy, but at the same time it is also important to emphasise that the many expectations that existed in 2010 for the area have not yet been fully met. The prices of raw materials internationally have been challenged, and the plans to set up a number of mines in Greenland have also been challenged. Naalaksuisut spends the time during the current recession on preparatory work with e.g.: to ensure an attraction of investors, so that Greenland is prepared when the recovery comes again. At the moment, I also know that Naala Suisut is concerned with promoting the opportunities for small-scale raw materials projects. As regards the working environment in Greenland and the law on occupational injury protection in Greenland, Inuit Ataqatigiit welcomes the fact that Naalaksuisut and the government in cooperation proactively ensure that the responsibilities between Greenland and Denmark fall into place. Neither the working environment on land nor occupational injury protection are repatriated areas, so the Danish Labour Inspectorate remains a supervisory authority in relation to the working environment on land in Greenland. At the same time, it is also important to emphasise, as the draft law also says, that autonomy has wanted to ratify the ILO Mining Convention, which the draft law takes into account. Inuit Ataqatigiit welcomes the draft amending law. However, we have a number of minor concerns which I think are also important to emphasise, because we are still worried about the safety measures for employees when establishing a possible uranium mine in Greenland, and from Inuit Ataqatigiits we are still saying no to uranium. However, it is a Greenlandic responsibility to make that decision. In addition, however, I think it might be interesting to hear the Minister explaining payment for labour inspection by means of feasibility studies. Who is responsible for these payments? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321150242	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Roger Matthisen, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321150248	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. I know that the draft law takes account of research, which is very positive, so that they do not have to cover these costs if they do not also want commercial rights, i.e. drawing up a contract to exploit commercial rights. I know that in the past there has been little criticism that the application process in terms of being allowed to research in Greenlandic soil has been linked to the fact that, together with the research application, it is now also necessary to apply for commercial rights. Perhaps it is a little off topic, but I do not know if the rapporteur knows what has happened. And I believe that it was Inatsisartut or it was the Naalaksuisut who himself decided that you should apply for both rights when you were doing research in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321150341	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321150343	I do not know whether I fully agree with what the honourable Member is referring to. In relation to the feasibility studies, which are the research carried out prior to the raw materials projects, it is naalaksuisut that grants a permit to do so, and in Greenland there is a great deal of focus on these smaller projects instead of focusing only on large-scale raw materials projects. And I think that has been important to emphasise. In addition, there is a desire to separate, what to say, the right of appeal and the supervisory authority in the various areas of Greenland. So that's something you pay close attention to.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321150423	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321150425	Thank you. It was in connection with a researcher in Denmark who is also a researcher in Greenland who said that the process had been made more difficult. However, I think that maybe this is just something the rapporteur and I will discuss later. But thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321150439	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321150441	Thank you very much. At least I'd love to.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321150443	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is Mrs Aleqa Hammond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321150451	Thank you. Greenland and Denmark have cooperation in areas which have not been repatriated to ensure that the activities for which joint responsibility is shared are up-to-date and up-to-date. In this situation, it is a proposal for a law amending the law on working conditions in Greenland and the law on occupational injury insurance in Greenland. The Government's proposal takes account of increasing costs for the Labour Inspectorate in relation to increased supervisory activity if more projects are carried out on the exploitation of raw materials and hydroelectric power on land, particularly in the case of large scale projects. The proposal also limits the risk of dangerous chemical substances or materials being used inappropriately. The bill is part of the ratification of ILO International Convention No. 176 on safety and health in mines. The proposal thus contributes to ensuring the best international practice in the field of raw materials, which is and has been an important benchmark in raw materials policy for many years in order to make the country an attractive player in the raw materials markets. As I have said, the proposal limits the risk of dangerous chemical substances or materials being used in an inappropriate way. Similarly, the proposal will help to increase cooperation between the Labour Inspectorate and the Labour Market Occupational Safety on the collection of data that can be more targeted to prevent occupational injury. I also note that when it was discussed in Inatsisartut, the proposal was supported by all parties, as I also supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321150643	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then I give the floor to the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321150650	Thank you to the rapporteurs for the positive reception of the draft law on the amendment of the Greenlandic Working Environment Act and the Greenlandic Work Damage Protection Act. Greenland's Self-Government expects more projects to be carried out in the future with the exploitation of e.g. hydropower and raw materials. The government considers this to be absolutely positive. However, the establishment and operation of raw materials and hydropower projects in Greenland poses some health and safety challenges. The Government considers it essential that the supervision of the working environment in connection with raw materials and hydropower activities in Greenland is cost-neutral for the Danish state, which until several have also mentioned here from the platform. At the same time, the supervision of such activities must not affect the supervision of other undertakings. The Government therefore considers that rights holders and others authorised to exploit must pay fees in order to cover the supervision by the Labour Inspectorate of raw materials and hydropower activities. The Government also welcomes the fact that the self-government has expressed the wish for the ILO Mining Convention to be ratified in Greenland, and the government would therefore be happy to contribute to the necessary legal basis. In addition, the government considers it sensible to clarify that rules on the use of chemical substances and materials can be laid down. It is also appropriate that the draft law should make it possible to lay down rules for the Labour Inspectorate to approve the use of hazardous chemical substances and materials in the same way as under the Danish Working Environment Act. Finally, the government considers that there should be the same opportunities to use occupational injury data in the organisation of the work of the Danish Labour Inspectorate in Greenland as there are here in Denmark. With that I would like to thank you for the comments that have been made, and I have also taken note of a few of the questions that have been put and which I will return to the committee in the form of a written reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321150846	There are no requests for short remarks. Yeah, there was another one that showed up. It's sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321150854	Thank you. It says in several parts of the legislation that Greenland does not have the right to leave work, even if it is dangerous, and that is why it is now being granted that right. It also says that there is no access to restricting certain dangerous chemical products, but that is what we will now be able to do. I would like to ask the Minister if comments have not been received from the trade union movement in Greenland, because this legislation has been made, because I see that only the Greenland Parliament has been informed. That's one thing. The second is whether there are other such serious shortcomings in Greenland's legislation on health and safety at work.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321150940	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321150942	In relation to what process has been in Greenland, I have to return to it in written form. In relation to the second question, I have no knowledge of anything that should be serious. What Christian Juhl quite rightly mentions here is the whole debate on the ratification of the ILO Convention, and that is what is being proposed for now to be ratified. I would, of course, be happy to return in writing if there is a need for further clarification, but I am aware that I am not aware of anything else in the legislation on working conditions, which should be of the same nature as what Christian Juhl is asking here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321151021	Sir. Christian Juhl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321151024	I was a little shocked, because it is, after all, a fundamental right of workers that, if there is something that threatens our health or our lives, we have the right to leave the workplace without losing pay, without being fired and without being harassed for that reason, and that right should be in all modern society's health and safety legislation, and therefore it is important that we look at it. And there I think we should try to ask the Greenlanders whether there are other areas where we should help each other to tighten up legislation, because these are two very important things: the one with chemicals and the one with life, honour and welfare. Or rather, there is no life, honor and well-being there is life. Therefore, I would like to ask whether the rules on honour and welfare do not apply in Greenland, as they do in Denmark, where it is partly regulated through the social partners, partly through the legislation on working conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321151114	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321151116	In order for Christian Juhl to get the correct and correct answer, I shall return in a written form, and I will of course do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321151125	Then there are no further brief comments, and we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Greenland Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321151142	The debate is open, and I give the floor to Mr Seligman. Jan Johansen as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321151204	Thank you, sir. President. L 147, which we are now considering, is a proposal for amended rules on the notification of entitlement to a retirement pension, including a retirement pension. There are two elements in the draft law, and one is that you will no longer send letters to citizens and inform them that they are entitled to a national pension. Since 1978, letters have been sent out to all Danes shortly before retirement age, after which you could apply for a retirement pension. The letters have not been sent to Danes abroad, and this has met criticism of the Danish Parliament Ombudsman. I have heard that that is why we want to stop sending letters altogether, but the Minister will answer that. Instead, the deadline for applications for a pension has been extended to the 10th day of the third month at the latest, after entitlement to a national pension, i.e. with retroactive payment from the day on which you could receive a national pension. But if that deadline is sufficient, I have serious doubts. Many people today do not know when they can retire, and the new pension reform that we have now, when there are many different age limits for when to retire, can in itself be a problem. There may be sick people, demented for example, who have no network at all, or sick elderly people, who also have no family or network and live alone, and who do not discover, or soon after discover, that they could have retired. So if the deadline of 2 months and 10 days is long enough, I doubt it. After all, we are living in an age where everything is now digitised and, as the new generations of older people come along, fewer people have not been digitised, and since we know that there are older people who will fall through and do not get their pension because they have not received the letter or have been applied for too late, it provides additional work for municipalities with advances, housing subsidies and not least complaints etc. It writes Payout Denmark itself in their response to the bill. Is what we are doing, in other words abolishing the letter, right? Isn't that something the Minister would like to reflect on during the examination of the bill? I think we should look forward and not think back to before 1978 with a worse service to citizens when almost all citizens in the future are digitised and thereby facilitate the administration of Payout Denmark. The second element is pension set aside. Insured pensions mean that you continue to work without going into retirement, even if you have reached retirement age and are entitled to a retirement pension, you can wait for money, but then receive a higher amount on the day you finally retire. Now you can wait until you retire or retire where you should remember to apply when you were entitled to a pension. It is an advantage that will help those who continue in the labour market because some have so far lost money because they have forgotten to apply for a pension. All in all, this is a legislative proposal that we see in perspective, but also concerns and problems, and we will have answers to them during the legislative process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321151611	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321151614	Thank you. Thank you for a good review of the bill and for a nuanced attitude towards the various elements. I fully share the rapporteur's concern that it will stop sending letters to people in the run-up to their right to a national pension. The rapporteur asks whether it is now the right thing to do and therefore has a criticism of it. I have to say that I have gone further in saying that this is not the right thing to do. So what I want to ask the rapporteur is whether the Social Democratic Party will support an amendment in the further examination where we remove that element of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321151655	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321151656	As I have said, we have our concerns and concerns about this, and we will examine them during committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321151705	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321151707	I must take the view that we are not making a clear commitment, but that we are not going to deny in advance that it may be appropriate for the Social Democrats to support an amendment that removes that element of the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321151721	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321151722	We would like to examine the issues and concerns we have during the committee procedure and discuss them. I also hope, of course, that the Minister will give a great deal of thought to whether this is the right way forward. But we would like that to be clarified before we respond.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321151740	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then I give the floor to Mr. Bent Bøgsted as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321151750	Thank you for that, President. After all, this bill has come because the Ombudsman has complained that not everyone received a letter stating when they could receive a retirement pension. It is difficult to find all those who live abroad, and that, of course, poses some problems. Then the government has decided to say that you're gonna drop the letter completely. That may be a good thing, but there are, of course, some issues that need to be taken into account in this context. There are also some benefits that are both problems and benefits. The advantages are that when you are in the labour market, you continue to work. Don't think about the fact that there is something called a pension, and the moment you find out that you want to stop working, you go and say, "So, now I have to get a pension." At the same time, you have to make a calculation of your pension. This is clearly an advantage for those in the labour market. I just do not see why it is necessary to apply for a pension when applying for a pension, for example. when you're 70 years old. As far as I remember, the law says that you have to apply for both a pension and a pension. If you are on the labour market and you apply for a pension at the age of 70, it should be a matter of course that there is a calculation of your pension. It is a question of removing some bureaucracy. But there are certain things in it when you look at the proposal. I think, for example, that this should be done per year. automatic when early retirement is taken up by an old-age pension. It should not be necessary to apply for a retirement pension. You go to a retirement pension when you reach that age, and that should be done per year. automatic. The same applies to pensioners, it should not be necessary for them to seek, and it should be done per year. automatic when the early retirement is terminated. In this context, of course, we must also look at those who are sick, those who have problems, those who are not able to seek. It may be some who have become demented; it may be some who have been hospitalized for a long time; there may be other reasons why you cannot apply. A solution must be found for them, because of course it should not be the case that they are left behind. I have talked to the Minister for Employment about this and, as far as I understand, the Minister for Employment is absolutely not opposed to finding a solution. There has been some criticism of what is about the socially vulnerable. I find it difficult to understand why it should not be possible for those who receive a social benefit who stop when they reach retirement age per year. We are told automatically that now, for example, we are going to stop. I would like to ask the Commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the Commission has not been able to take any action on this matter. I assume that the municipality has to justify to a person who receives a social benefit why his or her benefit ends, and it would be natural to say: Well, that is because you have gone to a retirement pension, it happens per year. automatic. That is one of the things we need to look at and clarify. With regard to this with retroactive effect, I think it is a good thing that the Minister is sensitive to the fact that the period mentioned in the draft law is too short. Now we are talking about three months, but it should be at least three months in addition to the month in which you are born, because there is a difference between the age of one in a month or 30 in a month. So it will be at least 3 months out of the month of your birthday. I think that would be something that would be fairly easy to get in place. Then, of course, I also have a wish that the application form for a national pension should be simplified in the future. But another thing, such as this one... Elders The case has been raised and, as we know there is a great desire for it, it is also something they have talked to the former Minister for Employment, Jørn Neergaard Larsen, about whether or not this is the case if a benefit earned before the retirement age, which has nothing to do with the period after you retire, is paid after you have retired, then it can be set off in the old age pension. It doesn't belong anywhere. That is something we must have changed, and I understand that under the former minister there had actually been a promise that it would have to be resolved. Because whatever it is for a benefit you've earned, whether it's holiday money, or it's some other thing you've earned while you were on the labour market, it shouldn't be set off against the public pension just because it's paid out in the month when you get the first pension benefit. This is certainly something we need to have in place, and I hope the Minister will respond to those wishes. Then I can see that my time is up.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321152303	That's it, yeah. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321152309	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. I think that was a very good point made by the rapporteur in his speech. I kind of agree with all of them. Then the question is just how the Danish People's Party views the bill, that is to say whether the position on the bill is conditional on us getting the things the rapporteur pointed out right. That is one question. The other thing is that you don't want to send a letter home anymore. There I found it rather unclear what the rapporteur really thought about it. So is it the rapporteur's view that this is all right, and we cannot do anything about it, or will the rapporteur be involved in changing that part of the legislative proposal as well?
ParlaMint-DK_20170321152343	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321152344	So the Danish People's Party can accept that no letter will be sent out, but it is also conditional on the other, which I mentioned here, being put in order. However, if we are to remove the point that letters still have to be sent out, we might as well drop the entire bill, because it is because of the letter that the bill has been tabled. It would not have been made if the letter had not come from the Ombudsman. So if Enhedslisten wants an amendment to be made to continue sending a letter, then you might as well drop the entire bill, because then it doesn't stick together anymore. It is because of that letter that the draft law has been tabled here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321152430	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321152432	I do not agree with the rapporteur on this. It may be that it is the issue of sending a letter that is the reason for making the bill, but there are other elements in the bill that have nothing to do with that letter. There are also some of the criticisms raised by the rapporteur, for example. The fact that the pension is set off in the old-age pension for a benefit which is paid only after you have reached a retirement pension does not have anything to do with that letter. So I do not agree with the rapporteur at all. It really surprises me that the Danish People's Party will accept that a letter will no longer be sent out, because, as is pointed out in several hearings, it hits precisely the weak group, which is not on all this wonderful digitalisation • homeless and weak pensioners etc. So I don't even understand how the Danish People's Party can accept such a thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321152520	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321152522	Well, well, well, if sir... Finn Sørensen listened, I said just about the socially vulnerable, that is to say those who receive a social benefit in advance, that I assume that they will get a letter, hopefully, from the municipality as to why their benefits stop. And I guess in that letter it has to be said that it is because of the fact that they are going to a retirement pension. I actually assume so, because you cannot stop a service without explaining why you stop the service. That, as far as I know, is how the law is today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321152550	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Next in line, sir. Klaus Markussen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321152559	Thank you. Everything has a first time, and for me it is the first time on the parliamentary platform right now at this moment. I'm really looking forward to the job. We are dealing here with a bill that will, firstly, debureaucratise and simplify the rules of the law on retirement pensions and pensions. Secondly, it will improve the legal status of citizens. In fact, I think that is an excellent proposal to take on the platform for the first time. Today, Disbursement Denmark is obliged to make citizens aware of their entitlement to a retirement pension before reaching the age of retirement. Compared to other public social services or residents resident abroad, this is a very special service. The bill is based on an opinion from the Parliamentary Ombudsman, who did not see a legal basis, so that Disbursement Denmark will continue to inform future folk pensionists about their ability to apply for a folk pension. The government wants to abolish the obligation to notify because we believe that it is inappropriate. We are in the midst of a digital age, we have unlimited opportunities to seek all the information we need. According to Statistics Denmark, as much as 79 per cent of the population were employed. of the 65-79-year-old Internet access in the home last year, and 70%. of the target group was weekly online. Therefore, the government believes that the Internet's opportunities help to make Payout Denmark's notification obligation superfluous, and we propose to abolish it. In addition, the draft law still makes it possible to apply for a pension with up to 3 months' retroactive effect if it is the case that one should forget to apply. At the same time, we must remember that the abolition does not, of course, change the fact that in the future authorities must also help the citizens who are addressing them. If we remove the assignment from Payout Denmark's desk, we will release 1.3 million at the same time. kr. in 2020, which we can then spend on other and better things. So we remove unnecessary bureaucracy, and I think that is actually common sense. With the bill, we also propose to improve the rules for deferred pensions. Those who choose to become part of the labour force for a long time, despite having the right to retire, should not be burdened with rigid bureaucracy. This means that persons who only apply for a retirement pension after they have reached the age of the population and fulfil the employment requirement will be entitled to a pension set aside retroactively. The Government considers that it is not reasonable for pensioners to miss a pension simply because they did not get an application when they decided to continue to be on the labour market. That is why we are improving the rules so that these people only have to apply for a pension when they actually want to retire. Finally, we explicitly propose that the calculation of the income base be based on the tax month. The rules for the payment of social pensions are currently uncertain and difficult to understand. The legislative proposal simplifies and clarifies these rules. Overall, this bill is pointing in the right direction. It is largely an expression of debureaucratisation and simplification of rules for the benefit of the individual citizen and for the benefit of Payout Denmark. We cancel commitments, simplify heavy rules and increase the possibility of digital self-service. The Left can, of course, support that. And I'd like to say hello to the Conservatives, sir. Rasmus Jarlov is out to travel this week and on their behalf announce that they support the government. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321153021	Thank you. Here, from the chair, a welcome to the work of the Folketing, and congratulations on the virginity. Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The rapporteur has resigned. The next in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Finn Sørensen as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321153049	Thank you very much. There are some good things in the bill, as was also mentioned by the Socialist rapporteur, but there are also some highly critical points that both the Social Democrat rapporteur and the Danish People's Party rapporteur were mentioned. I would particularly like to draw attention to two points: that letters should no longer be sent to future pensioners about their entitlement to a national pension and that, in calculating the pension, income should be calculated in addition to the pension in the month in which they are paid. The proposal that letters should no longer be sent out is slotted down by the consultation answers that relate to that question, and that is by far the majority of them. It will result, as many, among other things. KL, points out that one hits a weak population who can easily overlook the fact that they are entitled to a national pension, for example. approx. 10% older people who very rarely or never use the Internet. As the Council of Social Affairs Ministers points out, a measurement shows that 83 per cent. of the population do not actually know when they are entitled to a national pension. Interestingly, then, the vast majority believe that their retirement age is lower than it actually is. This also applies to 51-60-year-olds, with 34 per cent. believe that their retirement age is lower than it actually is. It is no wonder that the population is confused at that point when you look at how busy the majority in Christiansborg is in raising the pensionable age. This leads, of course, to the consequence that living Danes have a very different retirement age. If you are 64 years old, you can retire when you are 65, but if you are only 18, you have to wait until you are 74 years old, with the agreement made in 2006 and the subsequent agreements. So it is no wonder that people are confused, but it is all the more necessary for people to be informed in good time when they are approaching the time when they are entitled to a pension. Various reasons are given for this. One of them, and I would call it a bad excuse, is that if you are to keep writing it to those who live in this country, you also have to write it to potential pensioners abroad. To that I just want to say, yes, it was missing. We have legislation that gives people the right to take their pension abroad. You can discuss that for and against, but that is the law • and then these people must also be informed about their entitlement to a national pension when the time comes. There I just think it is too slow to use EU rules as an excuse to make a deterioration of that kind. The savings are so small. 1 million kr. At least you have to be very, very far into the decimal places in order to see something tiny. Probably there won't even be any savings. Payout Denmark expects to 15 per cent. of those entitled to the pension will only seek to reach retirement age. That number will then drop to 10%. from 2019 onwards; this is Payout Denmark's forecast. But that means, of course, that Payout Denmark gets a whole lot of pension cases with retroactive effect. Payout Denmark expects an increasing number of complaints as a result of this law. So that's what you could call Ebberød Bank coming out of it. But perhaps it is not the desire for simplification at all that drives the work, perhaps it is a hidden desire that many will forget to seek, and that is also a way of saving. But there is another ugly mistake in the proposal. The Elders Case has pointed out that the calendar year model for calculating the retirement pension introduced by a unanimous Parliament in 2014 has some negative consequences, which none of us, nor the Elders Case, unfortunately, was aware of then. This means that if the pensioner receives a late payment of a holiday allowance or early retirement, it may, where appropriate, result in a reduction of the pension supplement by up to 30%, which may amount to between DKK 10,000. and 30,000 kroner.; That's what the Elders are telling the case. But here the Minister corresponds to the Elders Case that it is administratively difficult for Payout Denmark if one is to avoid it. Once again, therefore, the desire for digitalisation is gaining on citizens' rights. Admittedly, the Minister promises to consider whether it is possible to change the way in which the payment of early retirement, the reimbursement of early retirement and holiday allowances are included in the income base so that this set-off can be avoided. It is, of course, very good that the Minister will consider it, but if there is to be something real in it, it must be resolved now when dealing with this bill. Otherwise, it's just a bird on the roof, and as you know, you can't put it in the oven. I think my message is very clear to the House, namely that the Enhedslisten will vote against the bill unless the two critical points are resolved and that we would also like to help solve the problems that the Danish People's Party also pointed out.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321153559	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321153602	Thank you. It is with regard to the claim made by Enhedslisten that there was a majority in favour of raising the pensionable age further. I don't think sir. Finn Sørensen can find that there is a majority in favour of raising the retirement age beyond what has been agreed. If sir... Finn Sørensen has listened to what the Danish People's Party has said, the rapporteur will know that we say no to raising the retirement age further. I also know that the Social Democrats have said no to raising the retirement age further, and then there is no majority to raise the retirement age. Will Mr. Finn Sørensen does not confirm very well that there is no majority in favour of raising the retirement age beyond what has been agreed and that it is not to continue to raise it to 74 years, as Mr. Finn Sørensen said? That is the retirement age that is now. That's 67 years for me. By 2030 it is 68 years old. That is what has been agreed and then no more and there is no majority in favour of raising it further.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321153652	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321153654	Then I have misunderstood the signals of the Danish People's Party. Now I did not say that the Danish People's Party was part of a majority or that there had to be a majority to raise it further. I merely relied on the welfare agreement concluded in 2006 when the parties included in the Social Democrats and the Danish People's Party promised each other that the retirement age would increase as the life expectancy increases, and that is what will happen if we follow what was behind it and the increase in the life expectancy we can see that a person aged 18 today has to wait until he is 74 years old. But it gives rise to a question for the Danish People's Party, because it was very clear speech that the Danish People's Party made here. Does this mean that the welfare agreement entered into in 2006 will be avoided?
ParlaMint-DK_20170321153744	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321153747	Now I'm not the one who's asked questions, but I can tell Mr. Finn Sørensen says that the agreement also says: if the parties can agree on it. In other words, we have not committed ourselves to raising it. This requires that the parties involved in the welfare settlement can agree on this. It says directly that this is what was agreed at the time. I don't think it's gonna work itself out. But something else is, of course, that I hope that Mr. Finn Sørensen, as sir. Finn Sørensen has expressed his support for the fact that we have to solve the problem he himself has mentioned in the platform that there is about this bill, because it is true that the Elders case has raised some problems, among others. on this set-off, which is quite unfair and which the former minister also said a solution would have to be found. I assume that the government stands by what the former minister has said, but that is what time has to show.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321153837	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321153838	Well that is clear, and of course we agree on that, and then I would hope that the Danish People's Party will join us. In fact, I myself mentioned in my speech that this problem had to be resolved. I am very pleased that the Danish People's Party also pointed this out, so I hope that we can work together on this and that we can table some amendments if the Minister is unable to find out for himself, so that, if possible, we can get it through if we can get some other parties to do so. Then I would just like to hope that the Danish People's Party will also reconsider their views on the issue of this letter, so that we can agree that it will also be sent back to people in the future, so that they will have reasonable legal certainty in relation to being informed about their entitlement to a national pension.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321153918	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next speaker is Mrs Laura Lindahl as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321153926	Thank you. With this proposal, payment is abolished Denmark's obligation to grant a pension before the retirement age and the possibility of retirement. On the other hand, pensions will be granted retroactively for those who have fulfilled the employment requirement. It will also be possible to pay a retirement pension retroactively if you apply after having found that you have not automatically received a retirement pension. Finally, the rules on the periodic assessment of the income base and the conversion and re-regulation of pensions will be clarified. In relation to the part relating to the notification of a retirement pension, we really think it makes great sense to equate the retirement pension with all sorts of other benefits, especially when you open up the possibility that people can obtain the pension retroactively after not having received the pension that they thought they should have. At the same time, it is very nice to ensure that those who are actually entitled to a pension that has not been applied for are guaranteed. Against this background, LA supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321154028	Thank you to the rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Torsten Gejl as rapporteur for the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321154035	Thank you, President. The alternative does not mean that you should drop the letter reminding older people that they should apply for a pension. We are afraid that some elderly people will not get an application in time and will lose a pension, even though it is retroactive in three months. After all, this concern is shared by a large number of old people's organizations and Payout Denmark. As Enhedslisten also states, we believe that if you had to use this with 3 months' retroactive effect, it would be a mess and give new administration that might eat up that little saving that you're supposed to get with this. On the other hand, we think it's okay to have the extended opportunity to get a pension if this can be distinguished. But all in all, we are opposed to this proposal. We would like to continue to ensure that people in Denmark who are going to have a pension receive a letter reminding them that they should apply for their pension, and we believe that it would be good if Danish citizens abroad were to have the same service.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321154144	Thank you to the rapporteur for the alternative. The next speaker is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen as rapporteur for the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321154155	In the Radical Left, we can support this bill, first of all because it is a question of clarifying the legal situation following the Ombudsman's statements, and we also see it as a modernisation and as the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur emphasized it as an equality with all other public services. We believe that the draft law has taken into account the considerations that must of course be taken into account. The important thing here is perhaps to ensure that this bill is thoroughly informed, but our concerns have been addressed. It is to be expected that people who are unable to seek for themselves are already in a situation where aid is provided. It is clear that the information on this change must go to all the authorities who need it so that it becomes clear, but otherwise we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321154316	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Karsten Hønge as rapporteur for the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321154324	Now I am also a postal rapporteur, and over there we have some trouble. It is quite worrying to come here and find that the work of one circle of economics is being undermined by another circle. But that shouldn't be the argument for SF being against this bill. Denmark is the world's most digitised society, and it is very good in many contexts. At the same time, however, it is by no means possible for all citizens to be informed of modern forms of communication. And getting your pension is so important that the state has to make sure that everyone gets a proper and understandable message in good time. The legal position of older citizens must be based on a firm basis, and then it is best to use forms of communication appropriate to the target group. It is becoming more and more topical in that it may be harder to keep informed about when you can actually retire. If there was a fixed age, so that we could run a campaign by the state in the media that people should remember the pension exactly when they were 671 1/2 years old, then perhaps some of the problem could be solved, but that is not the case. After all, the retirement age is moving up. In addition, SF is opposed to the new calculation methods with set-off within the same month. On the other hand, we think it is good to have some new rules for the pension set up, but that is not enough for us to vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321154519	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no more rapporteurs have asked to speak, it is the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321154526	Let me start by thanking you for the many speeches that have been made here at the first reading of a legislative proposal which certainly also contains some, you might say, challenging elements, as the always present rapporteur for the Enhedslisten, Mr. Finn Sørensen, the season drilled himself into. It is good that we get to the bottom of the legislative proposal, and we will do so during the committee procedure. There were other bars, you might say, from the Social Democratic Party, which is now in a deep dialogue with the Danish People's Party, and it is always dangerous when it happens with the two parties in the Parliamentary Chamber. But if the Socialist rapporteur can for a moment stop flirting with the Danish People's Party, it will of course be an exquisite pleasure for the Minister. I have to say that the concerns expressed by the Social Democratic Party are quite fair to me, and that is one of the things we need to discuss during the committee procedure. Now, of course, there is also relatively good time for the committee procedure. It is primarily the question of guidance, that is, how to ensure that those people who are no longer receiving a letter are not getting caught up in a world where more and more people are becoming digital, but where there are some who are weak, vulnerable citizens who may have problems understanding what the rules are or are not aware of the rights they have. It is in fact the same as the Danish People's Party expressed in relation to parts of the element that is about no longer sending a message to people. I am quite willing to discuss how this can be clarified and clarified. And it is also the case that the draft law outlines what it is for people who are exempt from this and who leave one benefit and then directly on a national pension. But we have to get back to that, and I think that's all right. I also think it is important to say that it will now be possible to apply for a retirement pension retroactively for a period after the age of retirement, as has also been explained. And I believe that this is a major improvement in order to ensure that you do not miss out on your pension. I must also say that I fully support the whole discussion about why we should abandon what has been in force before, which is quite right, among other things. is due to the criticisms made by the Ombudsman. I think it is quite reasonable, as the radical rapporteur also said, that in the world we are living in now, where this is not the only thing one should be aware of as an individual, even there himself is personally responsible for the application. And in the event that you are unable to do so, there will also be an effort to provide guidance, as the draft law also shows, in relation to the authorities responsible. But, of course, you can disagree on that. In addition, we also propose that you be given the opportunity to apply for a retirement pension when you wish to move to a retirement pension at a later stage than the retirement age. And in this way, you do not miss a pension simply because you have not applied for a pension when you reached the age of retirement. It is also something which I think makes quite good sense and which improves the conditions that we know. However, there is no doubt that the challenges of this bill are in the details, and that is why I am also looking forward to constructive committee work, in which we must reassure each other that this bill will not leave people in a situation where they do not know what rights they have and when they will be entitled to a retirement pension if they so wish.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321154917	Mr President, there is one brief comment. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321154919	Thank you. I think it is obvious that if you want to reduce the danger of someone getting in trouble, then you don't want to stop sending that letter home to them. Then you do it, and I don't see what the problem is. Then you must also send it to those who live abroad, if that is what EU rules require. I don't see what the problem is in it. It may be that the Minister can unveil it. However, what I would like to ask you is the issue that the Elders Case raises in their supplementary hearing answer, where they refer to a letter and it is probably from the summer of 2016 from the former minister who wrote: "I have therefore asked the Agency for Labour Market and Recruitment to examine the issue further and to set out models for adjusting the applicable rules that will address this problem. I don't think we've seen those models.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321155017	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321155019	I think it's the June 6th letter. Unfortunately, I do not have the letter on the platform, but I remember it as if it were a letter from Jørn Neergaard Larsen to the Elders Case in June. It is true that Jørn Neergaard Larsen has asked STAR to relate to this. I have not yet received a complete file. I expect that during the committee reading here we can get the final report from STAR on what was the Elders' concern about the calendar year model, as I remember the dialogue that was with my predecessor. But we will come back to that. So we will be discussing this here during the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321155053	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321155054	Thank you. I look forward to it. But it would probably have been very reasonable for it to have been put in place before this bill was tabled so that it could have been resolved. Now, because there is already a majority in the House, perhaps not the draft law, we are risking that it will be adopted without resolving that problem. I guess that's not fair. Because this is a common problem we have. All the parties in the Folketing adopted this law on the calendar year calculation model, and it also brings a whole lot of benefits, we still agree on that, but there was something we missed. And now the Elders are coming and pointing to it. I guess it's fair for us to resolve this bill, and that's what I'd like to ask the Minister if he's prepared for: that the problem has to be resolved before we adopt this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321155140	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321155142	I can't solve all the problems at once. I have to finish the work at STAR which has been initiated, and that is not a criticism of Finn Sørensen; it is, in fact, just a criticism of myself and my own system. But yes, that work must be completed, and it is my clear expectation that the issues mentioned in the calendar year model will hopefully now be resolved in the context of the committee we have here. After all, it is a work which was initiated by an inquiry from the Elders Case, for which Jørn Neergaard Larsen endorsed. That's why I'm not trying to delay anything or jam anything. I certainly also look at those challenges with a certain degree of seriousness.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321155224	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321155238	The debate is open. Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321155313	I regret that I had plunged into a short-term flirt with the Social Democratic Party. It will not be repeated for the time being. But now to something else, namely the motion for a resolution tabled by the SF. The Socialist People's Party wants the government to propose better conditions for children in the entertainment industry. I would like to start by saying that the government will not support the resolution; then perhaps the tension has been triggered. However, the government basically shares the intention in the motion for a resolution that we should ensure good conditions for our children and young people. And in Denmark in general we have a very special focus on children growing up in a secure environment and having the best conditions. It is, of course, primarily a responsibility that the parents of the child must shoulder, but it is also a social responsibility to ensure good day care institutions, good schools, yes, a good framework for a safe upbringing. We as a society and as parents protect our children from bad conditions, and therefore we also safeguard the right of children to be protected from work that interferes with education, development and well-being, and the right of children to rest and leisure. The clear starting point is, of course, that children under the age of 13 are not allowed to do any work at all. However, there are opportunities for children under the age of 13 to be allowed to participate in cultural activities in a professional capacity in some cases. It can, for example, be done. It is about a theatre performance, a concert or a feature film. Let me now examine some of the points contained in the SF's proposal. The first point in the motion for a resolution is that the Labour Inspectorate should take over the task of the police to allow children under the age of 13 to participate in cultural activities professionally. The question is somewhat simplified: which authority is closest to assessing whether it is justifiable to allow a child to take part in a cultural activity in a professional capacity. The first assessment must, of course, be made by the parents of the child, who are primarily responsible for the activities in which the child is involved, but that being said, it is also a task of the authority to protect children who want to participate in activities that can certainly be demanding. I do not think that there are grounds for changing the current division of labour between the Labour Inspectorate and the police in this area. First of all, the Labour Inspectorate does not make an assessment of individuals' private circumstances such as participation in a specific activity in relation to the child's development, health, schooling, etc. It is part of the police's assessment when the necessary permissions for professional participation in cultural activities are to be given, and in addition, the police have been responsible for many decades and so the police have both the right experience, the necessary skills and, above all, the ability to build up a practice in this area. However, I would very much like to discuss the matter with the Minister for Justice, so that we ensure that we organise ourselves in a way that protects children in the entertainment sector. The second point in the motion for a resolution is that children over 13 years of age participating in talent shows should be covered and protected by the Working Environment Act. I can inform you that everyone is covered by health and safety legislation when they do work for an employer. This applies to adults as well as children over the age of 13 and also to children under the age of 13 who have been allowed to work. In this context, it is the employer's responsibility to ensure that working conditions are fully safe and sound in terms of health and safety. When it comes to children's participation in talent shows, it will not always be described as work for an employer, and therefore conditions will not always be covered by the rules of health and safety legislation. The same applies to other demanding leisure activities, where children participate in the competition • it can be riding competitions, dance competitions or other.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321155705	Health and safety legislation applies if it is a work that the government has difficulty in seeing the sense of making special regulation in relation to talent shows. In this context, it is also important to remember that a talent show is in any case a workplace for all the employees who get the show on their feet hosts, soundmen, produce, and what else might be involved by people. Therefore, the actual production of talent shows is subject to the requirements and rules of OSH legislation, and a talent show, like all other workplaces, can be visited by the Factory Inspectorate. I understand, moreover, that the entertainment industry is fortunately not an industry with a high incidence of accidents at work, which I also think is important to include in this survey. The third point in the resolution is that children under the age of 13 and their parents must have access to redress if they are dissatisfied with something in the process. And I have to admit that it is not quite clear to me what is meant, i.e. what is to be complained about. As Minister of Employment in this context, I am concerned about the possibility of complaining if there are problems with the working environment, and it is already the case today that everyone can complain to the Labour Inspectorate if you suspect that the health and safety rules are being violated. The Factory Inspectorate evaluates each complaint in concrete terms and decides whether it should be followed by a monitoring visit. Against this background, I believe that there are fine remedies, including for children under the age of 13, who work in the entertainment industry. So in other words, I do not believe that there is a need to introduce more means of redress or new bodies. But having said that, I also think it is important to say that this issue must be taken very seriously and seriously, and that is why I am also in favour of the fact that we in the Working Environment Committee are going to be discussing this report, which is one of them. is due to a report in which the Children's Council has dealt with the subject. I certainly think it may be obvious to look at whether improvements should be made and whether action should be taken that supports even more that children under the age of 13 do not experience insulting things in connection with participation in some of the things that are going on in the entertainment industry. Having said that, however, the government does not support the proposal that we are discussing here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321155924	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321155928	I think it might be something more interesting to hear what it took for the government to take an initiative, rather than being so busy, as the Minister, in defining something that is certainly not possible. I mean, it's gone wrong for the minister before. I understand that on 16 January he said to Jyllands-Posten that it was technically impossible to transfer the task from the police to the Labour Inspectorate because of the EU. I would like the Minister to confirm that after the Children's Council has examined it and after the Minister has been in dialogue with the Children's Council, the Minister must say that what he said on 16th does not hold, but that there is no EU law to prevent the transfer of competence from the police to the Labour Inspectorate. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20170321160006	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321160008	I'm not in a position to remember all the quotes and all the comments I make, so I'd better answer sir. Karsten Hønge in writing, so that we get quite right what I said in that regard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321160019	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321160021	We have to come back to that, but I can only confirm that the Minister himself has been in dialogue with the Children's Council, where the Minister said that what he said on 16 January was precisely wrong. Then we have just made it clear, by the way, that the debate was the fault of the right rapporteur, because perhaps the right rapporteur would like to say that what he said on 16 January was not possible in the European Union, and then just say that the Minister himself said to the Children's Council that what he said on 16 January was not true. I just need to get it as a fact for the rest of the debate. Now you can say who has the right skills, and the minister certainly thinks that it is the police. What, then, is the Minister's view that we are dealing here with 'I think myself an exciting alliance between the Children's Council and the President of the Police Union, who just says that they do not believe that they have the authority of the police and that they think it should lie with the Labour Inspectorate. That's what the police union's own president and the Children's Council say together.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321160107	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321160110	I am not hiding that it can always make an impression, of course. It is probably two former policemen, or an active and a present, Per Larsen, whom I remember being chairman of the Children's Council. After all, I am concerned that if you add new tasks to the Factory Inspectorate and you are sure that the Factory Inspectorate is able to carry out those tasks and, above all, if you have to remove tasks, that it is for good reason. That is why I am not putting forward any confrontational course either. I would suggest that during the committee procedure we might also be able to write a report in which we cannot accommodate all the parts that the government has presented here, but where we could embrace some of the things that are about this issue, as Mr. Karsten Hønge points out. It is, in fact, just a friendly paw that is being stretched out into the room, that you can try to make a report which I think will be supported by a wide range of parties here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321160207	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments, so we are going to start with the rapporteur's speeches. First, it's sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321160223	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Seligman. Karsten Hønge for having tabled this motion for a resolution so that we will have the opportunity to speak on the working environment in this Chamber. In fact, I think we are doing far too little, so this is a very good occasion, and thank you for that. I understand that the proposal here is based on the work of the Children's Council to ensure proper conditions for children also in work situations and, in particular, with a focus on participation in what is mentioned in the motion for a resolution, namely talent show. I would like to stress that it is important that the working environment is in order and, above all, for young people and for children who are unable to address or respond to their work situation themselves. We Social Democrats are against child labour. Children must not work; they must play and go to school. However, in exceptional circumstances and under clearly described conditions, work can also be done for children under 13 years of age, for example. in a theatre, by filming or in connection with other cultural activities. And there are quite clear rules for this: it requires the approval of the police, and the very strict working time rules that apply to schoolchildren can only be waived when you have a derogation from the Labour Inspectorate. In the social democracy we are actually quite confident about that division of labour. In addition to the opinion of the proposers that the Labour Inspectorate should both approve and grant derogations for rules relating to the work of young people, it is also proposed that 13-15-year-olds participating in talentshows should be covered by the Working Conditions Act and that parents should have the opportunity to complain. In my preparations for today's meeting, I have read the Labour Inspectorate's guide on the work of educational youth. This is where the whole set of rules is described. The guide sets out the very clear rules governing the work of young people, both when work is involved, what work is permitted and what rules apply to the performance of the work, including working hours and rest periods. In fact, I think that the field is covered fairly well, but I also agree that there may be a grey area in relation to those activities which cannot be described as work within the meaning of the law, for example. participation in talent show. All those who make the programme are employees and are covered by the Working Conditions Act, but the participants are not covered in the case of both young and old. In my view, the shoulders of organisers and parents are very much responsible for taking care of the children's interests in particular. Since it is voluntary to participate, you have to stop if there is something you are unhappy with. We cannot support the motion for a resolution as it stands, but I would like to open up a discussion in the conciliation circle as to whether the boundaries of work in the 2007 Decree are still adequate. But I do not want to compromise on the principle that children should not work.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321160528	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321160531	Yes, of course, it may be a good thing that we can discuss it in the conciliation circle, but I would rather accept what the Minister said at the end. Now it came to the end, and there I had no opportunity to ask any more, but then I will ask Mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen from the Social Democratic Party, what his attitude is to what I thought at the end of the Minister's presentation, after all, was an outstretched hand, namely that we could make a joint report on it in committee. It may be that Mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen has read that the Labour Inspectorate writes that there are quite clear rules, but I have to ask Mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen about something. One thing is that the rapporteur has read what the Working Conditions Act says. Did Mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen read the Children's Council report? In the Children's Council report, for example. Elin, 12 years old: "Tit said we should meet at 12:00 a.m. 9:00 a.m. and could go home at 9:00 a.m. 16. But then it was from 2:00 a.m. 9 to 21. And then I had to take the train home. So I was in bed at 9:00. 24... She goes on to say: "The timetable comes running like this when they find out what to do. It's not that the contract says it's them and the days you're gonna be practicing. Because then you go on that day, and then there'll be an extra rehearsal day there, because then we missed one there. I now put several questions to the rapporteur, and I hope that Mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen can get around them pretty much.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321160641	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321160642	Let me take the very first. I am both open to what the Minister says and to what I myself say about the discussion in the conciliation circle. What is important is to find out whether there is a need to change anything. In relation to the last part, I have read the report, and that is precisely why I say in my rapporteur's speech that there is a great deal of responsibility for parents. Insofar as what is agreed is not respected, there are some who have to resign, and the children cannot do so. In doing so, parents must do so and say: we do not want to do this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321160710	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321160711	I just want to know if there was a willingness on the part of the Social Democrats to make a joint report in which we are trying to go into the substance of this and that instead of being so busy saying what you do not want to do, you are trying to open up what you want to do. If it's really true, sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen has read the Children's Council report, I must ask: what impression does it make when the Children's Council so clearly points out that it is necessary for us to move competence from the police to the Labour Inspectorate and that we need to take steps to ensure that there are some who look after the children in this entertainment industry?
ParlaMint-DK_20170321160742	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321160743	I think I will repeat what I said just now, namely that I believe that there is a great deal of responsibility both for those who arrange things and for the parents whose children take part in these activities. The law is clear. If you deviate from what has been agreed in terms of working time or the times for the children to meet, then a derogation must be granted. If you don't, you've broken the law. If the agreements are not kept, you have the opportunity to complain. Parents can do that, and in the end they can choose to say to the children: do not participate in this. That's where I think you protect the kids. With regard to the report, it is true that a large number of situations are being identified where there are some things that do not work as they should, but I would like to ask the question whether we are not in a position to deal with it if people do what they have to by means of the funds that we already have at their disposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321160833	Thank you, sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen. There are no more brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321160843	Thank you for that, President. I think, of course, that when you look at it, it is important to ensure that children have proper relationships. It should not be the case that they feel abused and exploited, but when that is said, I must also say that in the Danish People's Party we absolutely believe that it is the parents' responsibility to refrain if there is something that the children should not be involved in. For you take part in a talent show or something like that, it's your parents' responsibility. Many times it is the parents who send the children away, and then it must also be the parents' responsibility to be ready to resign. Of course, it is unreasonable for them to have some times that do not last, as Mr. Karsten Hønge mentions, but again it is the parents who have to say no. It should not be the case that it is the Labour Inspectorate that has to come in and check those things. By the way, if something happens, they may already be done with the talent show or whatever it is before the Factory Inspectorate arrives. If you compare with other things in which the children participate, it is, and will be, the responsibility of the parents in the end. It is not for the public to check what children are now participating in in their spare time. I don't think of a talent show as a job. It is a leisure pleasure in which one participates, and it is solely the responsibility of the parents. I might as well have asked the Minister to leave his speech up here, so I could have read it out, because it was an excellent speech. But then you should have heard it twice, and it might not be so attractive in that case either. I agree with both the Minister and Lennart Damsbo-Andersen that if there are some grey areas, we must of course look at it in the working environment circle, because of course it should not be the case that there is something that we can say we should correct. But to start saying that instead of the police, it must be the Labour Inspectorate that has to give permission for the various things, I think it is going into the other ditch. Because I really think that if we have the Danish Labour Inspectorate and they have to approve a talent show, it's the same thing as saying that it's a job, and then it's child labour, and we don't have it here in Denmark. But now let leisure and leisure be one thing, and then really work another thing. In any case, I think that is what we should do. We are ready to look at it if there are some grey areas that we can rectify a little in the legislation that is in force today, but we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321161121	I would like to make a brief comment on Mr Seligman's report. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321161124	It is simply an incredibly bad excuse, and it is to close your eyes to say: No, but it is just the parents' responsibility, they just have to go out and do it out there. The reality is that children are used in the entertainment industry. This is about protecting them as well as possible, and I think it is totally irresponsible just to say: parents must take care of that. Because when we come back several times to talk about talent shows, what impression does it make on the rapporteur that the Children's Council writes that it wonders and worries the Children's Council that children and young people in talent shows are neither regarded as working for an employer nor as volunteers and are therefore not covered by the Working Conditions Act? But in return, I can tell Mr. Bent Bøgsted, that all sorts of others in a talent show, all the adults, are protected both through the Working Conditions Act and through the professional organisations that can defend their interests. But for those under 13, they say: Oh, no, but it's not really a job! I have to promise that many of the children who participate in it will experience it as such. It is also good that they participate in it, but why not provide protection over it? And since it is clearly recommended both by the Children's Council and by the President of the Police Union, could it not do that in the Danish People's Party too, it was thought that it might be something about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170321161229	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321161229-2	It is, of course, a difficult question, as Mr. Karsten Hønge travels. Because when you look at what happens to children in the entertainment business, you see that in most cases it is not the child himself who is planning it all, it is the parents who are inside it; there are no children under the age of 13 who are themselves actively going in and looking for something. It could be, for example. in connection with a film, a talent show or in so many other connections that they actively go in and seek it out and say they want to participate in it. It is the parents who are involved and therefore the parents also have a responsibility. I think we will have a completely different situation if the Factory Inspectorate had to go into many of these sectors. Then it could be that it was so that it did not happen at all to have children in the industry. But I think we should not say that it should be the Labour Inspectorate that has to control everything. We have to leave it the way it is and let the parents have that responsibility. This also applies when participating in leisure activities, that it is the responsibility of the parents. It was also my responsibility when it was something with my kids. You can't leave that to the Labour Inspectorate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321161346	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321161348	Well, this really doesn't make any sense. It really doesn't. Well, sir. Bent Bøgsted thinks it is important that we do not involve the Labour Inspectorate in this because it is the parents' responsibility, but it is the police today. Well, it's not like no one has it, and then it's better for the police to take care of it, I'd say to Mr. Knox. Bent Bøgsted. That's what this is all about. It's not about whether or not someone does it, and you can just say it's the parents. No. Today it's the police, this proposal, among other things. is about, now there are several things in it and that we move competence from the police to the Labour Inspectorate. That is what it is all about, and not about moving it away, so there is nothing, because there is something today, I just don't think it is right, because, as the Children's Council and the Chair of the Police Union say, the best competences lie in the Labour Inspectorate. By the way, it also gives the parents, as Mr. Bent Bøgsted has mentioned sometimes, an opportunity to obtain redress through the Labour Inspectorate, and they do not have that right of appeal to the police today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321161431	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321161432	That's fair enough, sir. Karsten Hønge has the view, and I have also said that if there are some grey areas we can fix, we are ready to look at it. But to change it from what it is today, the Danish People's Party is not prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321161447	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. We move on to Mr. Klaus Markussen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321161455	Thank you. This resolution actually has the best intentions. I think we can all agree that we must do everything we can to create the greatest possible security for our children. This applies to all children and, of course, to those in the entertainment business. I can therefore understand why the Socialist People's Party is making this proposal. Because, of course, we must protect our children from bad conditions. I'm totally in line with that. The motion for a resolution can, of course, be slightly simplified, as has been said earlier today, divided into three points. As you know, the first part of the proposal concerns which authority should assess and, where appropriate, allow children under the age of 13 to obtain a work permit. Of course, I think it is important that we keep making sure that we have made the best possible arrangements. This is really true of our society in general. That is why I think it is also positive that the Minister will discuss this part with the Minister for Justice. However, I am particularly sensitive to the fact that the police have accumulated a great deal of knowledge and experience in the decades they have been responsible for work permits for children under the age of 13. And that is precisely what I see as creating the greatest possible security and the best conditions for children, which are what the proposers are asking for. The second part of the proposal is that children over 13 years of age participating in talent shows should be covered by the Working Environment Act. As the Minister mentioned a moment ago, health and safety legislation applies as long as it is a job. And if it is not a job, then exactly the same conditions apply as if the child took part in any other competition. That is why I do not see the basis for special regulation exclusively for children participating in talent shows. And it is worth noting that the production behind talent shows is subject to the requirements of the rules of the health and safety legislation. Hopefully, it is contagious throughout the workplace, including children and young people participating in talent shows, albeit for a shorter or longer period of time. The last part of SF's proposal is about redress, specifically for children under 13 years of age and their parents. In fact, I would just like to say that there are already good opportunities to complain to the Labour Inspectorate if it is the case that it is believed that the health and safety rules are not being complied with. As I mentioned at the outset, I understand, and I sympathise with and agree with the intentions of the SF resolution, but despite the fact that we understand the purpose behind this proposal, given the concerns I have raised, we cannot support the specific content of the proposal. Then, on behalf of the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, I should like to say once again that they cannot support the motion for a resolution either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321161807	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321161810	What an impression it makes on Mr. Klaus Markussen, that the people who work with it, namely the police, at least through the President of the police, say that they do not believe they have the competences that the rapporteur believes they have been working with for decades? Those who are dealing with this group, namely the Children's Council, which has led a group of experts to draw up a report on this, clearly point out that the police have no competence, and the police association's own chairman also says that they have not, and therefore they think it is a good idea to move it over to the Labour Inspectorate. What impression does that make on the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20170321161838	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321161839	It is not my impression that it is being pointed out that the police should not have the powers. On the contrary, it is my impression that the police have so I do not share the view that the police should not have the powers.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321161902	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321161902-2	I'd love to hear about that. What are the competences of the police in the field of health and safety other than granting derogations? Because I've never heard of it. Do they have any other experience in the field of health and safety? Not that I know of. It's at the Factory Inspectorate. And maybe that's why they're pointing out that it's not there, it's supposed to be • plus that there's some other benefits to it. But there's also a difference between this. There are, of course, some who, as in talent shows, are unpaid, and then there are others who participate in movies where you get paid for the work. I think we can include this in the same proposal, but it is different situations that our children and young people are in. Elsewhere it looks like pure work, just to a lower salary.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321161940	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321161942	I think it is very important that we keep things separate and are precise about what we are talking about. I myself thought I was very clear when I said that this was about the police being responsible for issuing work permits. That was the competence I referred to in my rapporteur's speech. We say that the police have a long, thorough and extensive experience and we see no reason to change anything in this regard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321162014	Thank you, sir. Klaus Markussen. There are no more brief comments. We move on to Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321162029	Thank you. It is a bit sad that we should go all the way down the line, not in terms of levels, but down the line with the rapporteur on the Left, before at least the rapporteur's speech was started to sign up for the good intentions of the proposal. The previous rapporteurs were more busy explaining everything that could not be done, and it just had to be put somewhere else. So the rapporteur on the Left must have that praise. This is a good start as rapporteur in this Chamber, and it is to be hoped that it will continue for the rapporteur in question that he then landed in the same place as the others is so regrettable. But the least you can do is sign up when there are some really good intentions in a proposal, and there is certainly that here. The Enhedslisten can actually support it in the form it has. We are dealing with an industry where there are some very fluid boundaries between work and voluntary participation. At the same time, we're dealing with an industry where there's a lot of hype, if I'm going to be a little modern, about this part of a talent show, etc. I'm not quite sure that sir... Bent Bøgsted is entirely in line with the spirit of the time among the young people that this is something the parents are dragging them into. With my poor knowledge of my grandchildren's experience of exactly this industry, I can imagine that in many families there is a good pressure on parents to get the children to participate, because there is so much identity associated with all of this that is there on Fridays. What is it now called "X Factor" and the kind that makes the children so preoccupied with it and very, very, very much want to be in it. It is therefore an industry in which there are really fluid limits and where it is not quite uncommon when you get a little bigger, that you have to work for free, so that you can be considered in the entertainment industry at all. So I think it's really good to get some focus on this. One of the key points and the points of dispute is, of course, whether the Labour Inspectorate should have the competence that the police have today. I think that is very sensible. As the chairman of the police himself pointed out, the Labour Inspectorate has the necessary powers. They're gonna have to check in advance whether the Working Conditions Act is being observed in this industry, and what was so more natural than that they also got the responsibility for the part that this resolution points to. So I think there are really good and objective arguments for doing so. Then I have to say to the rapporteurs who simply reject it that I think it is too cheap to refer to this: we are dealing with this in the conciliation circle. This is the negative side of the Danish Parliament. Many, many areas are settled. Some parties have agreed that this should be the case, and the Enhedslisten is included in some of them, but now there is a concrete proposal that is trying to solve a specific problem, and then we should all take a positive view of it when everyone else agrees that there are positive intentions here, rather than saying that we are dealing with this in the conciliation circle. And then it disappeared into the conciliation circle, and then no one saw anything about it. That's how it happens all the time. Let's just be honest. So I think that the rapporteurs who have just rejected it need to get up on the mark. However, go into a constructive discussion and let us try to make a joint report on this in committee. So I hope that the proposal will have a slightly better fate in the future in committee. At least the Enhedslisten would like to contribute to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321162413	Thank you, sir. Finn Sørensen. We move on to Mrs Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321162421	Thank you. Thank you for the proposal and good intentions. SF proposes tightening up the rules for children's work in the entertainment industry, and this should be done by allowing children under the age of 13 to work, transfer to the Labour Inspectorate, include children participating in talent shows, and create a right of appeal. In the Liberal Alliance we see no political reason for transferring the tasks of granting permissions to the Labour Inspectorate, nor do we agree with the comments made on the motion for a resolution. We believe that the question of which authority should carry out this task must be based on practical considerations, and it can be noted here that the assessment of individuals is outside the scope of the Factory Inspectorate's current field of activity. But I also noticed that in her ministerial speech the Minister said that she would have a discussion with the Minister for Justice about the police's current handling of this area. In relation to the health and safety part and talent shows, it should be noted that it is a relatively detailed special legislation that is required in an extremely narrow area. As an amateur participating in a competition, there is no question of an employer's relationship in which general health and safety rules do not apply. If we want to make these, I would say rather bureaucratic special rules, we should have shown how talent competitions differ from other types of competition at a high level and that there are major problems in this area. There should be no solution to theoretical problems with specific legislation. In relation to redress, I am a little uncertain about what is really meant. If it is a matter of employment, you can complain to the Labour Inspectorate, and if it is directed at these talent shows, I think it must be considerably easier to have a talk with the producers, who are also interested in offering proper conditions so that they can also have participants in the future. The Liberal Alliance does not support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321162638	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321162642	How much is the rapporteur aware of the competence of the police, which is being referred to? In other words, can the rapporteur explain whether there are competences beyond those at the very moment of the exemption when a stamp is being issued? Will there be any follow-up on the terms that exist? Or does Mrs Laura Lindahl really think that one should just naively believe that because producers need to attract some in the longer term, they treat children and young people properly? Well, everything in this society would be easy to solve, because then we'd all just be nice to each other. There's a lot of money at stake here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321162722	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321162723	Well, the fact that there is a lot of money at stake supports my position and my claim that producers have a huge self-interest in treating children and young people very well. Because if they don't, they can't get people to run for this, and then they're gonna lose exactly the million-dollar business they've got going on. And that is precisely where the political difference lies: we in the Liberal Alliance believe that many things can be solved through the market.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321162756	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321162758	Well, with that attitude, we could really make things a lot easier here in society. In the same way, it could be said that there is no reason to have a law on working conditions in relation to a carpenter's company, because the carpenter's firm will of course always behave with its employees, otherwise they would not have any in the longer term. No, I guess that doesn't quite work out, so we could use it all around society and then repeal virtually all laws, because obviously we just have to rely on one's own interest to behave properly. Well, the reality shows exactly the opposite: that we have to have regulations, especially when it comes to such important things as safety at work and the working environment. And here we are even talking about children who so much need a protective hand.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321162836	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321162838	As I also said in the rapporteur's speech, there are no real problems in this. After all, we have not seen lots of children wandering on talent shows and having been treated really badly. In other words, this is a theoretical problem which is now being tried to resolve with very concrete legislation in a crazy narrow field. We fully agree that we need to ensure an overall good framework for children, but to make concrete legislation in such a narrow field we are not in favour of.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321162908	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321162917	Thank you. In the alternative, we are pleased that there are so many children who have positive experiences in the entertainment industry, but we are also impressed by the fact that so many children are exposed to unsatisfactory conditions. There are far too long working days, there are far too late working hours, and there is too much waiting time for those children who sometimes sit and have to wait and wait for several hours, and perhaps they are not even going on that day. That is why we think it is extremely relevant that the SF is tabling the motion for a resolution to try to close the grey area. Because we think it is. These children are surrounded by adults covered by health and safety regulations. In some of these cases, these kids make a little money too, and then there's gonna be quite a lot of money on these kids performing. So it's like in the middle these kids are, I think, a little, no rights. Whether it is exactly the design that SF is proposing to remove this grey area, we would like to be involved in discussing, i.e. identify the grey area more clearly and so quality-proof the interventions that are needed to ensure that children are not in this situation. Some of the things we are thinking about are whether we should include more or less of the Children's Council's recommendations, and then we should also have clarified that point three, that is, what it is we can complain about. But we really think that in committee we should take a round and see if we could give this motion for a resolution a chance together and see if we could design the tools needed to close this grey area.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321163109	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's report to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321163125	In the Radical Left, too, we are very much in favour of the intentions of this motion for a resolution. In fact, we believe that it is worth taking it up. Now we have talked a lot about the health and safety rights of adults, but these are children who work, they have been granted an exemption to work. Yes, fortunately we have comprehensive and tough rules, it is a welfare society, but in the Radical Left we would very much like to help to strengthen or improve the legal position of these children who are involved in this type of entertainment production and who are not properly covered by other means. In fact, it makes an impression with us when both the Children's Council and the police say that those competences are not sufficiently present. We also have a number of questions in relation to financing, and I think the Minister was quite accommodating, even in relation to just taking into account what we are then imposing on the Labour Inspectorate, which, unfortunately, is already quite tense, and there is not so much of that in the resolution itself. Therefore, I will be careful just to put it to the vote, but I hope that the rapporteur and a broad circle of parties will take it up and hopefully in a report they will find a broad circle that will support us finding wordings that improve the legal position and rights of these children in relation to a proper working environment. When you've been granted an exemption for a specific job as a job, that's what these kids have been given, it's of course very much the parents' responsibility. But what about those cases where there are no parents to take that responsibility upon themselves? That is what we are talking about here, and what we are basically good at in general, namely ensuring that everyone has those rights. I think this is important, and I think it is important that we take the lead in Denmark and ensure it for children.How else could we impose it on other places? So, in one way or another, we want to improve the legal position and health and safety rights of these children.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321163416	Thank you to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321163429	It does not matter to the SF whether this motion for a resolution will be adopted in the form in which it stands. What matters to us is that we take steps to protect our children better. Whether we find one or the other kind of it in committee means nothing to the SF. That is the sole intention. The title of a report from the Children's Council is one that needs to be looked after for the children, and it cannot be said more clearly and simpler. The reason for the motion for a resolution from the SF is many reports from children, parents and adult actors who experience that children are not properly cared for when filming or performing at some of the theatres or at the major talent shows. These are reports of stressed children who get far too little sleep, who find it difficult to take care of their school. It is adult actors' experience of children throwing up with insecurity and fear of not being able to perform, and who may have problems emotionally breaking away after a production where one has been very close to each other. It's about long working days, trying early in the morning, late in the evening and then intense recordings or performances in front of a camera, timetables that go, and scenes to be taken over, and long breaks in between. The Children's Council and the Danish Actors' Association recommend that better protection be introduced for children, yes, the Children's Council has even taken the time to explicitly recommend the motion for a resolution prepared by the SF, and the Chairman of the Police Association recommends that the authority move from the police to the Labour Inspectorate. It is easy to understand both children and parents' fascination with the entertainment industry. It can be a great opportunity to live some dreams out, and we all love to see happy children unfold their talent. The children, by far most, by far most of the time, love it, and so it should be. Children are needed in movies, plays at the theatres and talent shows. It looks a little awkward if adults are to play all the children's roles, yes, perhaps just with the exception of Bubber as an isolated case, and even he probably has an expiration date. During this time, tens of thousands of TV shows follow... There's gonna be a day. Other tens of thousands, like me, have seen the movie in the cinema. We are shaken and repelled by the way children were treated in the past, and we are also all impressed by the performance of the children in the film. But who took care of the kids while they were gone? Although it is a job the children do, this particular industry is not protected by the same rules as the rest of the labour market. The Children's Convention describes the right of children to be protected from work that interferes with education, development and the child's right to rest and leisure. The Children's Convention gives children a number of rights. Children in the entertainment industry have committed adults around them, but not everyone has the skills to work with children, and there is a big difference in how children are treated. Some theaters have a fine policy that protects children from harm. On some film recordings there is a special responsibility for children, whereas children in talent shows are typically disadvantaged. In other words, it is pure coincidence that decides how children are treated. We cannot be familiar with this as a society. This resolution deals only with the working conditions of children and not with the challenges that might arise from the exposure that the entertainment industry also gives to children. Children's experiences and challenges in this regard need to be dealt with elsewhere. Adults have the Working Conditions Act, the Labour Inspectorate and professional organisations to lean on, but what about the weakest in the workplace, namely the children? Canada has shown the way by going far in protecting children. Perhaps we should take a closer look at their experiences. As I see it, new and clean lines are needed. For this reason, SF proposes that the Labour Inspectorate take over the task of giving work permits to children under the age of 13, and in the future, the Labour Inspectorate will deal with permits for children under the age of 13 in talent shows. Children under the age of 13 and their parents must have the opportunity to complain if they are dissatisfied with the course. We believe that employers in individual media productions should be obliged to ensure a secure environment for children, and this can be done by having a child-responsible in the workplaces where children work, one who sees the task from the perspective of children and takes care of the well-being of children.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321163934	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321163956	I understand the Minister is on the way. I need to get the minister in. Then the Minister also came and then we get started. It is first the rapporteur for the questioners, Jeppe Jakobsen, on the grounds.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321164026	Thank you. Over the past few months, the area of older people has been filled with the media. Many stories have, fortunately, been about how cooking is now again going to the nursing homes, about how the municipalities work with their dignity policies • stories that an elder rapporteur will be happy to read. Unfortunately, however, it is not only the sunshine stories that have filled the slots and broadcasting surfaces, but all too often stories of neglect, unworthy conditions and bankruptcies. These are stories that cut the heart, stories of people who had rightly expected loving care, but who have instead been abandoned by the society that should have been there for them. We should not accept this in a proper welfare society such as Denmark. Although, of course, there will always be mistakes where people are involved, we in the Danish People's Party feel responsible for examining whether these errors can be avoided and an obligation to intervene where the errors can be avoided. These are not just pictures on television and ink on newspapers' papers, but accounts of people of flesh and blood who have not had the safe old age they had hoped for. That is why we have raised this question debate, in other words to hear what the government which, in its own words, gives priority to the elderly, intends to implement in order to ensure that the Danes have a safe and dignified old age. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321164202	During the previous debate there was a lot of movement between the parties, and that is perfectly understandable. But I'm just asking for the move to be moved out of the Parliamentary Chamber. Now we've got the explanatory statement, and then it's the answer here to the Minister for the Elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321164237	Thank you for the floor, and thank you to the Danish People's Party for the invitation to this question debate on the care of the elderly. I have looked forward to today's debate because it is important to have an open discussion on how to ensure good care for the elderly. I would like to start by making it quite clear that all needy elderly people must, of course, receive proper and dignified treatment. They need the help and support they need, and there must be the time needed for care, because our elderly deserve dignified care and care. The government will work to ensure that all elderly people receive good and dignified care, because dignified care for the elderly is one of the cornerstones of our welfare society. There is room for improvement in the care of the elderly. We saw that, among other things. with the examples from TV 2 back in December last year. For me, it is not worthy if you have to wait 1 hour to go to the bathroom, or if you cannot go to the bathroom, even if you need it, not at all. However, I would also like to warn against the fact that we are going to talk the elderly into a black hole. We must remember that care for the elderly in many municipalities and in many nursing homes works well. The residents have dignified conditions, and the staff meet residents and relatives with excess and eye level. I have, among other things. found on my trips around the country. Over the last few weeks, I have visited a total of nine nursing homes, where there was a strong focus on strengthening the self-determination and freedom of choice of the elderly in relation to how they want to live. As the government's basis clearly shows, the government is giving priority to the area of elderly people. We are pursuing an ageing policy based on the five fundamental values of the Elder Commission, which I myself value very much. The five fundamental values are that older citizens who receive help continue to have an influence on their own lives, that we respect the fact that all people are different, that humanity is at the heart of care, that the elderly have the opportunity to have good experiences and that we all ensure a dignified end to life. These are values that we should steer after everywhere in the care of the elderly. Of course, we in the government are very aware that demographic developments mean that in the future there will be more older people. However, it is important to bear in mind that the increase in the number of elderly does not necessarily require a corresponding increase in the cost of the elderly. This is partly because we have an increasing focus on rehabilitation, and the municipalities are constantly working with new and better solutions through the use of welfare technology and better organisation of work. At the same time, the health status of older people has improved overall, even though elderly people in nursing homes today are typically severely impaired and many have dementia. In the three parties that now form the government, together with the Danish People's Party, we have launched a series of initiatives in the last two financial agreements that strengthen the elderly area. In the 2016 Finance Act, we agreed on a comprehensive model for ensuring more dignity in care for the elderly. With the introduction of dignity policies, it is now a requirement for each municipality to describe its overall values and priorities in the area of the elderly. This is a very important step, because in this way we have now put the debate on dignity on the agenda in all 98 municipalities. With dignity policies in hand, citizens, relatives and employees have been given a very good opportunity to engage in a dialogue with their local politicians on how to ensure that care and care in the municipalities are carried out with dignity. Dignity policies are not alone. In the 2016 Finance Act, 1 billion was allocated to support policies. kr. extra annually for a more dignified care of the elderly. If we look at the expenditure on the elderly area, the municipalities have been budgeting in 2016 with increased expenditure on the elderly area of 1.2 billion. kr. in relation to 2015. The municipalities' budgets for 2017 show that the municipalities' expenditure on the elderly area is increasing by a further 0.8 billion. kr. From 2016 to 2017, taking into account the boost resulting from the Finance Act. The fact is that, overall, the municipalities spend more money in the area of the elderly under this government than in the past. With the 2017 Finance Act, the government parties and the Danish People's Party for the second year in a row gave priority to allocating additional funds to the elderly area. Over four years we have allocated another 2 billion. kr. for better care for the elderly. It covers, among other things: more than 380 million kr. Annually from 2017 up to a rock card scheme that provides all nursing home residents approx. The help should be used for activities other than day-to-day care, and the nursing home dwellers should help to decide for themselves what time to spend on. In addition, a pool of 450 million has been set aside. kr. in 2017 for better food for the elderly. We want to help get the cooking back to the nursing homes and closer to the residents, because a nursing home is a resident's own home, and a home belongs to a kitchen. Another important area is the response to people with dementia and their relatives. Dementia is an awful disease, a disease that turns life upside down, not just for the individual, but for the whole family. In many places, improvements have been made in the area of dementia, and many employees and volunteers make every day a great and qualified effort to create a good and secure everyday life for people with dementia and their relatives. But we can do even better. That is why I am also pleased that last December the government and the pool of rates parties agreed on the final agreement on a new national dementia action plan up to 2025; an action plan giving priority to 470 million. kr. It is also important that the European Union and its Member States take the necessary steps to ensure that all the countries of Central and Eastern Europe participate fully in the process of economic and monetary union. With the Dementia Action Plan, we will ensure better quality in the investigation and treatment of people with dementia, as well as providing care and care based on the latest knowledge and based on the needs of the individual. The Dementia Action Plan contains many good initiatives, and I am one of them. Welcomes the fact that funds are being allocated to a practical increase in skills in municipalities and regions; that action is being taken in relation to relatives; and that funds are being allocated to the setting up of more suitable nursing homes. We have also launched an initiative on national quality indicators in care for the elderly. The possibility of developing three or five overall quality indicators to measure the quality of care for the elderly must be examined. The work has been started and we are now meeting KL and other key parties to get input into relevant quality indicators. We will also look into whether experience from other countries can be used in Danish contexts. For example: I know from my visit to the Netherlands a few weeks ago that they are also barring there with some new quality indicators for the care of the elderly. In this context, I would like to make it clear that the main focus of work must be on the difference between aid for the elderly and aid for the elderly. We are not supposed to introduce new process measures just for the sake of governance. In order for us to have good care for the elderly, it is important that employees can concentrate on the core task of providing care and care for the elderly. This is also why I, together with KL, have initiated a work that, with the involvement of FOA, Danish Nursing Council and other key parties, must point to unnecessary rules and documentation requirements • requirements that can be relaxed or removed to free up time that employees can spend on care and care. A dignified care for the elderly is also about influence on your own life and room for free choice. It is a central goal of the government that the needs and wishes of the citizen provide the framework for the aid provided. We are not all the same, and we have different wishes and needs. Elders must therefore experience a diverse selection and have the opportunity to choose exactly the supplier who meets their needs. Many elderly people enjoy free choice, and many use it to choose a private provider of home care. We in the government will ensure that older home help recipients can continue to make use of their free choice without having to worry about bankruptcies and the uncertainty that ensues in relation to whether we will also receive the help that is needed tomorrow. We are therefore engaged in dialogue with KL and the professional organisations, among others. discuss the recommendations for the prevention of bankruptcies agreed upon by the Parties. We will, among other things. discuss whether the principles are sufficient, whether the municipalities are using the recommendations correctly and how we ensure that all municipalities apply the new principles. In parallel with this, we also provide a service review of the change in the rules of free choice implemented by the former S-R-SF government back in 2013. Against this background, during the summer, the government will invite the parties of the Folketing widely to discuss the challenges and the responses to them, so that we can secure a suitable framework for free elections in the area of the elderly in the future. To conclude, let me repeat that we in the government have a great deal of focus on the area of the elderly and the challenges in this area. This is clear both from the government base and from all the concrete initiatives that have been launched in recent years. I would also like to say that, of course, we in the government will continue to follow developments in the area of the elderly, so as to ensure in future that elderly people who need help are provided with dignified care where there is respect for the individual's right to self-determination. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321165407	Thank you for your answer. We shall begin the negotiations. First of all, it is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321165418	Thank you. Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I look forward to the Minister taking the floor after the rapporteur's line so that we can debate the answer. From my chair, care for our elderly is one of the cornerstones of the welfare society. It is one of the things that makes Denmark a good society to live in that you should not be dependent on relatives or large savings in order to meet your old age with security. Nevertheless, there is a development in which you either have to shout out yourself to get the help you need, or you have to have strong relatives who can do it for you. It is a symptom that part of the welfare society is in crisis when you cut every corner that can be cut and there is no overview to see the needs of the individual. It falls back on the political system, as it is we who set the framework within which the welfare society must act. I've borrowed a trick like Mr. Kim. Uffe Elbæk spends the questioning lesson with the Prime Minister. I have asked those who do not have direct access to the Minister, as I have, what they wanted and what they would say to the Minister if they had the chance. Consensual for all who responded were more hands and more time. It was not too much bureaucracy or too little welfare technology that filled both relatives and employees, but more hands first and last. Of course, one can reach a distance by removing unnecessary bureaucracy or using technology to facilitate work, but if one stares blindly at these tools and denies the need for more hands, one has not understood the extent of the challenges. The fact is that, fortunately, the Danes are getting older and older, and the more elderly citizens are going to demand a strengthened economy for the area if it is not to go beyond the quality of care for the elderly. There is simply not so much paperwork in the sector that that task can be solved by cutting the paper stacks and claiming otherwise would be to refuse to face reality. With the birth of the new three-clover government, we have an elderly minister. For the first time, we now have a minister who alone must focus on the area of the elderly. It points in the direction of a government that has ambitions on behalf of the elderly, and the new minister also says that she represents a government that gives priority to our older people. In the Danish People's Party we will keep the minister up to his word, and we will follow very closely that the government in more than words gives priority to the area of older people. Later this year, for the first time, the new government will be given the opportunity to prove that the government, even when acting independently of the Danish People's Party, gives priority to the elderly area. When negotiating economic agreements with the municipalities, we will see how much the elderly area is at the top of the government's agenda. But I take the words of the Minister for the Elderly for good goods and look forward to an economic agreement that remembers our older fellow citizens. In the Danish People's Party we will continue to focus on the elderly area, and although the task of providing care for the elderly is the task of the municipalities, we feel responsible for ensuring that this task is carried out in a reassuring manner. Local selfgovernment ensures the possibility of adapting conditions to what is most needed locally, and this is basically a good idea. But we have no fear of touch if we feel that the municipalities are going astray. When municipalities leave night shifts alone with dozens of older people, but at the same time believe to be able to afford new djøfs at city hall and art for millions, we would like to target more of the municipalities' finances to what is, after all, the municipalities' core task, namely to provide welfare. At the same time, we also have a task to do to ensure that the necessary framework is in place to carry out the task properly. That is why we are also pleased that we, together with the government parties, have been able to strengthen the area of elderly people by billions in relation to the two financial laws adopted since the elections. If we are to get rid of the terrible stories that have triggered this debate here today, one task is very clear: to ensure that the financial framework is in line with its tasks. This is the foundation on which a dignified and secure care for the elderly must stand. As a conclusion on behalf of the Danish People's Party, the Left, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party, I shall read out the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that demographic developments require new requirements for the elderly and the economy associated with them if the level of service is to be maintained. The Folketing considers that older citizens who can no longer take care of themselves must have the help they need and that there must be the time and the warm hands needed for the effort. The Danish Parliament notes that the 2016 Finance Act provided a budget of EUR 1 billion. kr. Annually for the elderly to support dignity policies, and in the 2017 Finance Act, EUR 2 billion has been allocated to the elderly. kr. over 4 years for better food and increased self-determination. The Danish Parliament takes note of the initiated work on the prevention of bankruptcies in the care of the elderly and expects to be involved in this. The Folketing expects the government to follow developments in the area of the elderly, including with more elderly people, so that dignity and self-determination are guaranteed in old age. • V 52). Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321170007	That proposal is now part of the further debate. There is a brief comment on Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321170016	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for a speech that came about many things. I took particular note of the rapporteur's emphasis on the fact that it is not enough to look at de-bureaucratisation; it is not enough to look at welfare technology if we are to meet the challenge that we know there will be, namely that there will be more elderly people who will need the welfare society to help themselves in the latter part of their lives. What I would like to hear from the rapporteur is what this really means, according to the Danish People's Party. We know, of course, that if we are simply to keep up with the trend, that there will be more elderly people, we must have at least a growth in public consumption of 0.6%. But we have a government that says that you have an ambition that it should only be half. So what is the position of the Danish People's Party when the government is about to negotiate economics with the municipalities this summer? Can the Danish People's Party support an agreement that does not at least live up to the fact that there will be more elderly people?
ParlaMint-DK_20170321170122	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321170123	It is clear that there is a difference between the policy that we would like to see implemented in the Danish People's Party and that which the government is leading in this area. This does not mean that we will be voting against an agreement between the municipalities and the government. It is a system that works and it is the ability of the municipalities to influence their own economy. But it is clear that if we see an agreement that points to the fact that care for the elderly cannot keep up and that care for the elderly is being eroded, then we have to look at other measures that can lift the area. We can do that, for example. This is one of the tools we need to take on board in the context of a debate on finance legislation. However, we have a strong focus on the fact that care for the elderly is not being undermined, and we will of course also call on the government to give priority to the area, as they themselves say they are, also in the context of the economic agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321170218	The questioner for the second brief remark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321170222	The Danish People's Party has a golden opportunity when it comes to the economic agreement between the municipalities and the government. After all, we have a minority government, so it must find support here in the Folketing to be able to implement an agreement with the municipalities. And we all know that the possibility for the municipalities to get more money is really bad if there is not a majority in the Folketing behind the position that one now has that there should be a better economy for the municipalities. So why does the Danish People's Party, when it comes to the municipal agreement, in this way simply print a blank cheque to the government that it can conduct any policy towards the municipalities and also a policy that can mean cuts?
ParlaMint-DK_20170321170301	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321170302	Our relationship with the economic agreement between the government and the municipalities is that if the municipalities themselves believe that they have an agreement that they can vouch for, we will not overrule that agreement on their behalf. If, on the other hand, KL says that they cannot reach an agreement and leave it to the Folketing to determine the municipal economy, that is the situation we have to deal with. However, such an agreement does contain many partial agreements, and it is therefore necessary to look at the sum of them, and if we are not satisfied with the agreement in one area, it will be on behalf of the municipalities to make violence on the contract system to ignore all the other results achieved by the municipalities. That is why we are not going to say in advance that the elderly will be what an agreement stands for or falls by.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321170351	There is one more brief comment. Sir. Finn Sørensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321170354	Thank you. And thank you to the rapporteur. I think it's a little backwards. First, we are voting in favour of an economic agreement in the KL and then in favour of an act in the Finance Committee, which in fact reduces the possibilities for the municipalities to ensure proper care for the elderly, and then we will rectify it afterwards. After all, the fact is that the Danish People's Party has voted for many years since 2009, for all those municipal agreements that have actually made the municipalities have far less money for welfare than they had in 2009. There is not much to do about that, but it is the Danish People's Party's approach to it. But what I would like to hear is: what is the growth that the Danish People's Party wants to fight for into the Finance Act and which can ensure that account is also taken of the increasing number of elderly people and the increasing number of elderly people in need of care, because the group of over 85-year-olds is also exploding? So what is the growth that the Danish People's Party believes is needed and will the Danish People's Party use the majority over to the left in the Chamber, where for example. Social democracy has announced that a growth rate of 0.6%. Then was something necessary to maintain the status quo at least? Where does the Danish People's Party stand there?
ParlaMint-DK_20170321170510	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321170511	Let's not put our sorrows ahead of us. It may well be that the economic agreement will actually be a good economic agreement. It hasn't been negotiated yet. We should also bear in mind that it is a municipal election year, so it may well be that the government will help its municipal hinterland to get a good agreement home. We don't know. We'll have to see that when the deal's settled. In relation to what growth we see, the economic wise men, as we have been told, say that there must be growth of 0.8%. in the public sector to ensure that the level of service in all areas can be broadly maintained. That is the aim we are aiming for. It can be said that despite the government's ambitions of 0.3 per cent. or 0.8%, I think, and last year it was 0.6%. So there is the growth that is being recommended, despite the Government's ambition that the level should be lower.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321170611	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321170613	In other words, we can agree that the prerequisite for a better growth than that described in the government base does not come naturally. This requires that it be adopted here in the Folketing in the form of a financial law and everything that belongs to it. How will the Danish People's Party ensure that there will be sufficient growth, so that account is taken of the sharp increase in the number of elderly people who are very much in the economy, because that is just the way it is? We need to solve that, but how will the Danish People's Party do it? Will the Danish People's Party take advantage of the plurality that emerges if you look to the left side of the Chamber? 0.8% There may not be so many others, but there are reports from the Social Democratic Party that say 0.6%. I understand that, but it may be that we will be disappointed later today, but then there is a majority option. Will the Danish People's Party use it to ensure the necessary growth in the public sector?
ParlaMint-DK_20170321170712	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321170713	We can look to the other side of the House, but if you look, for example, to the other side of the Chamber. If we look at the social democracy, we see that there is a long tradition. I do not think that the Social Democratic Party must now correct me.... have ever voted against an economic agreement between a government and the municipalities, so the majority of the government is not in danger because of them. But it is clear that the question is how we will ensure it. We can't. We can't guarantee anything. However, we have 37 members of the Folketing, but we cannot secure anything. But we can see that the cooperation we have had with the government has led to the growth rates that are needed to ensure welfare. So clever from experience, I would say that the arrow is pointing in the right direction, despite the ambitions of the government. After all, it is such a pity for the government that their ambitions for low growth are not being met, but that it is our ambition for high growth that is being achieved.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321170806	The next point for a brief comment is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321170811	Thank you. Demographic trends suggest that 1 billion will be spent. kr. more every year in the area of the elderly, if it is the case that we have to take account of the fact that there are more and more elderly people over 80 years of age and the rehabilitating efforts have been taken into account in advance. These figures are confirmed by KORA. The rapporteur of the Danish People's Party also points out here that a dignified billion has been set aside and that billions have been set aside for better food, but it does not, of course, do so in relation to care and better treatment and help to go to the bathroom. Does the Danish People's Party think that we will have to limit ourselves to earmarking billions for direct care?
ParlaMint-DK_20170321170905	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321170907	So, in the Danish People's Party, we are not finished with the elderly area with the two financial laws that we have already agreed on. It is still a focus area for us and, as I also mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, it is a focus that we want to have in the future, so that we ensure that the economy follows demographic developments, where we see that the proportion of older people is increasing and that there will be more caring people. So it is clear that we will also have to look at that in the future and keep the government up to say that they are giving priority to the area. If we cannot agree on a good economic agreement, then we must look at whether, for example, we are going to have to look at it. can bring it into a finance agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321170952	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321170954	However, the rapporteur agrees with me that demographic development requires at least one billion to be allocated. kr. more every year to the elderly, if we are not to make serious cuts in relation to the ordinary care of elderly citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20170321171013	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321171015	If the questioner has figures from KORA, I assume the questioner is right. I have no reason to doubt that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321171027	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments for the moment, and the next rapporteur is Mrs Astrid Krag from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321171043	Thank you for the floor, and thank you to the Danish People's Party for this opportunity to discuss worthy and safe care of the elderly and, above all, to hear more about the government's future plans. I am pleased that the Danish People's Party is also concerned about the problems that have arisen in the care of the elderly and, as the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, I also hope that we will get the minister on the floor here later where we can ask questions to the Minister. We can say that to those who follow at home and had to wonder, that is, that we did not have the opportunity to do so in the first place. That's the format now here. We have a welfare society in Denmark where one of the most important tasks is to ensure that we can all face old age with confidence in our minds, in other words the senior years, where we are more gray at the top. And that requires high quality care for the elderly. That is why it is so worrying and I think it is touching something in all of us when there are examples such as those that have been on TV 2, where older people are sitting in wet diapers for several hours, or where older people who otherwise have no problems with their blisters get diapers on because there is no time to help them in the toilet. It can also be older, who lie for many hours without getting out of their bed, even if they want it. And it's not just TV 2 that can tell these stories. Lately, the Jutland West Coast has had similar examples where relatives describe that there are not enough hands for neither care nor hygiene, or older people sitting alone and passive in a constant smell of urine and e.g. don't get brushed teeth because there isn't enough time to clean properly after accidents. It is unworthy, and I do not think we should either get used to it or accept it. Fortunately, we also have a care for the elderly, which works very well in many places, but these examples show that the area is under pressure, and we must also note that the dignity billionaire has not put an end to unworthy conditions. The Minister for the Elderly has set up a task force, which we have heard a lot about today. I do not need to spend much time on it, but I would just like to say that, in relation to this task force on debureaucratisation, the Minister has not been able to guarantee us that the money will subsequently be able to stay in the care of the elderly. And it's a bad thing that we can't get that guarantee, because then it's gonna be a threatening, hidden austerity exercise. In the task force there are also no representatives of the SOSUs and nurses, but KL, who represents employers in this context. Nor has the Danish Elders' Council or the Elders' case been included in the task force itself, even though they have volunteered, and I am frankly puzzled. If we then stop it because the Minister cannot guarantee that the money released by debureaucratisation can remain in the care of the elderly, then I can be rather concerned about why representatives of employees and the elderly will not be allowed into the task force itself and make recommendations. I think we should go fundamentally differently. The Social Democratic Party has proposed a real partnership in which municipalities, professional organisations and other good forces come together to find sustainable solutions that can free the employees for the core tasks and care and care that are of course the most important. There are many challenges in the area of the elderly. Fortunately, the good side of history is that more people live healthy and healthy for longer periods of time. But that does not change the overall challenge of the economy, which was also touched on in the debate here before I came to the floor. A study carried out in 2014 by FOA, Danish Nursing Council and Elders The case showed that three out of ten employees felt that the elderly have little or no dignified care and care for the elderly. Three out of ten are scary, and it says something about how pressure you are out there and how much pressure there is on having time for the core tasks. But if we look at the government's objective that public spending should only increase by 0.3 per cent. So it's just gonna be even harder to see how this is going to work out in the future. We've been over it. It may sound as if it is not very much, that is, what is the difference of 0.3 per cent. 0.6% and 0.6%? But it is between a whole and a half billion dollars that will be missing every year. This is equivalent to 16 000 fewer public employees in 2025, and you do not have to have read many years in fine schools to figure out that it will be felt out there, including for the elderly. That is why I am so excited to hear what the Minister is going to do today, when he has the economic ambition he has, and the Minister even comes from a party dreaming of outright negative growth in the public sector. How the hell will you make it rhyme with a more dignified care for the elderly? It is true that, as Enhedslisten has also mentioned, the Social Democratic Party has sometimes provided funds in our input to the 2025 negotiations to ensure that growth can keep up with the increasing number of older people. And according to the Treasury's own calculations, it's 0.6 percent. We owe it to the elderly, who have worked a long life and answered each one's, so that we can also take good care of them when age is pressing and one needs care and care. I think I'm about to round off. The Minister has mentioned the task force and the dignity billionaire and the money to build kitchens. In parantes noticed it is some things that have come up because the Danish People's Party has lifted them into the negotiating room, and then the Minister was kind enough to mention some of the agreements that we are together on, among other things. The Dementia Action Plan, and that is all very well. But with a task force in which we cannot obtain any guarantee that the funds released can remain in the care of the elderly, and a dignity billionaire who cannot make it up to the severe deterioration that would mean that economic growth would not be allowed to go hand in hand with the increasing number of elderly people, and I would have liked to hear what further steps the government had in the pipeline. And I have to say that I am a little disappointed about things that point forward rather than backwards. Now I have not read the text of the adoption out loud, but that is something the President says. Klint): It is usually included, but nevertheless). On behalf of the Social Democratic Party, Enhedslisten, Radical Left and SF, I shall read out the following proposals for adoption. It is Parliament's clear view that all elderly people who can no longer take care of themselves must have a dignified help and care. This presupposes that employees have sufficient time for the presence, care and activities of the elderly and the freedom to use their skills. The Danish Parliament notes that up to 2025 there will be over 200,000 more elderly people over 70 years of age, which makes new demands on the elderly and that economic development will follow demography if service levels are to be maintained. For this reason, the Folketing considers that an annual growth in public consumption of 0.3 per cent, which the government envisages in the government base, will lead to a deterioration in the welfare of the elderly and a deterioration in the working conditions of employees in the care of the elderly. The Danish Parliament takes note of the initiated work on the prevention of bankruptcies in the care of the elderly and expects to be involved in this. The Danish Parliament expects the government to follow developments in the area of the elderly and give priority to this, so that all elderly people are guaranteed a dignified old age. • V 53).
ParlaMint-DK_20170321171744	Thank you. The proposal for adoption will also be included in the further discussions. For the time being, I have only one brief comment to make, and that is Mr Seligman. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321171756	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. Before I got a seat here in the Danish Parliament, I had a place in the town council of Kalundborg Municipality. That was when there was a Social Democrat sitting in the Ministry of Finance, and let me just say frankly: it was not fun to put budgets back then. But now let the sins of the past be the sins of the past. How will the Social Democratic Party move forward if we have to regain the Ministry of Finance, ensure that there will be enough money for the area? What concrete steps will be taken to ensure that the municipalities do not remove the economy from the elderly area?
ParlaMint-DK_20170321171837	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321171838	Thank you for that question. First of all, I believe that it was not only the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party who sat on a council and found it difficult to get the budgets going up. After all, it was the toughest economic crisis Denmark had been in since the 1930s, when we had government power, and I am not going to stand here hiding that it was holding hard. Everyone was involved in paying the bill, and so were the municipalities. That is why it is so paradoxical that the government apparently believes that there is so much more to be done out there. Well, there's cut into the leg around in the care of the elderly, there's no cream left to foam. So the experience that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party has had, I think, can be widely recognized. I am not going to say anything else, and I have not done so in the past either. On the whole, however, we will ensure that the money goes with the increasing number of elderly people, and we have put forward our own input for the negotiations on a 2025 plan, how to ensure it. Then it is clear that we also need to follow the area to ensure that the money goes to the right place. But the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party knows, just as I do, that every time you earmark money for something and you have to seek pools and you have to prove it, it is a djøf'er at the town hall I think that the rapporteur himself used the expression "who gets a little more to do." That's why we have to be careful about it every time we earmark money for something. I am not saying that there can be no need for it; we did it ourselves with our older billions, but of course we should be careful about doing it too much, because then it will be the so-called cold hands and not the warm hands that will benefit from it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321172002	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321172004	That is, of course, a slightly weaponious answer to whether you want to be a government earmarking the money, so that we ensure that the money goes to the well-being to which we want it to go, ensuring that care is given the scope that we think it should have. Can the Social Democrats' rapporteur not be a little sharper on whether to target the money, i.e. whether it will be the tactics one is pursuing or whether one will just go for general subsidies? And is this, moreover, an indication that, as a Social Democrat, we are guaranteeing that there will be a great deal of growth if we regain power?
ParlaMint-DK_20170321172044	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321172045	I think what you hear depends on the ears that listen. I didn't think I was particularly weaning. Well, first of all, there has to be money to keep up with the demography. It is quite specific that there is even a specific target figure in the Ministry of Finance that can be kept up with the 0.6% increase. Secondly, I really think it was a very honest answer to say that sometimes it may make sense to earmark and target, but every time we earmark something like that and I assume that the Danish People's Party will nod to be such, otherwise we lie to people there is an increased requirement for documentation. There are papers to be sent, pools to be applied for, and they have to be settled, etc. This may be necessary, as we concluded ourselves when we earmarked our older billions when we had the power of government, but at other times you will get much more welfare if you allow the money to go to the municipalities via the block subsidy. This must be decided from debate to debate, and just as the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party will not stand here and advance the financial legislation negotiations in the autumn, I cannot stand and negotiate the economy up to 2025 years per year, even if I would like to.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321172149	There are also many others who want to say something. I have just five comments to make, and the first is Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321172158	Apparently, I was fast. I noticed that the Socialist rapporteur spoke of the fact that if we are to keep up with the developments we know there will be more elderly people, we must have at least 0.6% growth in public spending. And then we have not addressed ourselves at all to remedy the current state of care for the elderly, of which the Socialist rapporteur has told us very vividly, for example. older people who sit with a wet diaper or cannot get out of bed when they want to. We have not tackled this at all if we achieve 0.6% growth. However, my question is: can the Social Democratic Party support a municipal agreement which does not contain such a growth of 0.6% when the government enters into an agreement with the municipalities this spring?
ParlaMint-DK_20170321172253	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321172254	It is a recurring theme, I can say, when we come together and discuss older people's policy in this Chamber. Last time I checked, it was sir. Finn Sørensen, who asked me exactly the same question. That is why it will not surprise him and the other rapporteurs in this Chamber that we Socialists too have respect for the system of agreements, and that is that it is the duty and responsibility of the current government at all times that it is now with the Minister for the Elderly and the others to negotiate an economic agreement with municipalities and regions that live up to what is politically desirable as a government. It will then also fall back on the government what it is that is negotiated in place. I would say that I agree with the Danish People's Party. After we have had an elderly minister for the first time in the history of Denmark, we now have the opportunity, at the forthcoming economic negotiations, to see what the government really means when it comes down to it. In other words, will a sensible economic agreement be negotiated with municipalities and regions in the area of the elderly or not? We can see that, but it is the government that is negotiating with municipalities and regions about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321172356	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321172359	I think it is the Folketing that has a responsibility for what economy the municipalities have, and it is, of course, a responsibility that we should assume, because it has huge consequences for what it is for an elderly care that we can have. It is a rather strange situation if we can hear here first from the Danish People's Party and then from the Social Democrats that there is actually a majority in this Parliament who believes that the municipalities should have a better economy than the government has proposed. But then that majority will not make use of it and ensure that the municipalities can have a better economy, such as: could benefit the elderly. I think it is such a little disclaimer of responsibility when you do not, what to say, make a specific decision on what kind of financial framework the government is negotiating with the municipalities. Well, why don't you use the voice you have? Is it just a blank cheque that the government can use in their negotiation proposals for what they want?
ParlaMint-DK_20170321172457	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321172458	No, that's exactly the opposite of a blank cheque. In other words, the responsibility for what agreement is being made with the municipalities and also the regions, but in this specific case with the municipalities, is based on the government. What is the level of ambition? What do you want? What is being negotiated with the municipalities? They have to face up to that, they have to answer for it. Hopefully they will have to explain a critical parliamentary basis if it is a really bad agreement if we do not honour the things we have heard the Minister for the Elderly stand and say we will, on the broad lines. I think that would be a major problem for the government. I imagine that the parliamentary basis will take up with the government they hold in power. So I don't have any intentions... Finn Sørensen may ask again to change the basics of the contractual system we have, but I think it is exactly the opposite if it means that it should be a blank cheque. On the contrary, this means that the responsibility lies very clearly with the government in office at all times.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321172558	I have still noted five brief remarks, so I would just like to point out that speaking time is 1 minute and then 30 seconds respectively. There's cases after this one, too. The next brief remark is Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321172612	Thank you for that and also thank the Social Democrat rapporteur. I understand that people are concerned about the number of warm hands in the care of the elderly. Now it is not so awful long ago that the Social Democratic Party let go of the reins and government power, so I would just like to ask briefly: what was the situation with the number of civil servants under the former Social Democratic-led government? Did more public employees or fewer public employees arrive during the government period?
ParlaMint-DK_20170321172643	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321172644	I had a little feeling that the rapporteur of the Left would come up with that question. It is true that since we last discussed this in the Parliament, there have been some new figures which have taken account of people with wage subsidies, many of whom were under the former Left Government, and this helped to make the figure for public employees very high, and thus it looked as if there was a sharp decline. But if you take them off, it is the case that there were actually 4,000 more public employees under Helle Thorning-Schmidt. And what can be said in general terms is that under the SR government the realised municipal service costs increased by 2.7 billion. kr. So nearly 3 billion were spent. kr. kr. And I guess it was at a time when Denmark was in the midst of a severe economic crisis. The rapporteur wants to know that, because I have just described it to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party and in this way it held hard in many places everywhere. I think all local politicians will recognize that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321172740	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321172742	If we are finally to talk about economics and who has spent the most money when, then it is quite clear that this government is spending significantly more money in the area of the elderly than the previous Socialist Government. But let it go. The Enhedslisten's rapporteur mentioned this by number last time we had the debate here. I think he referred to the AE, which, as far as I remember, had a record of precisely the number of public employees, and the figure of 14 000 was mentioned, i.e. 14 000 fewer public employees under Helle Thorning-Schmidt. Is this a figure which the Socialist rapporteur can confirm, or are we inclined to pour AE's calculations on the board?
ParlaMint-DK_20170321172824	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321172825	I mean, now I'm not standing right with Finn Sørensen's own speech paper in front of me, but I actually have a record of an AE note, and the 14,000 fewer public employees that I can read about in the AE paper went on how many fewer public employees would be in 2025 if this government succeeded with the policy of taking the economic space created by some tough reforms and then spending them on tax cuts. This government spends significantly more money than the previous one, says the rapporteur of the Left. Well, there have also been more caring elderly people, so it should be like that. And in relation to looking in the crystal ball, it is in fact black and white in the government base and, as such, also in the Economic Statement, that you will not let the money keep up with the increasing number of older people, not because the money is not there, but because you want to spend that money on tax cuts. And I just disagree with that approach.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321172911	The next with a short question is Mrs Karin Nødgaard, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321172915	Thank you. History is one thing, the future is another. But I would like to try to turn it around a little bit, because it is not a secret. We have also heard earlier that the Social Democratic Party has been in government and has done some things. Could the rapporteur not try to say quite briefly and precisely what it was in the area of the elderly that S carried out, in other words quite concrete and with examples that gave so much effect that we can see today that it has actually made a difference? That was one part of it. The second part is that the wish scenario for S is surely to get back into government. What, then, will be done in addition to what the current government has often done with the support and initiatives of the Danish People's Party? What else are we going to do?
ParlaMint-DK_20170321173006	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321173007	Thank you for that question too. That's a big question. I will see if I can make it within my speaking time. Well, one of the things I'm proud of, the previous government did, even in a time of economic crisis, was to set aside an elderly billion earmarked. Now it is a dignified billion, with dignity policies, and it will be exciting to see what it will mean. Then the idea of rock maps is not a thought that is completely new or has grown in this government's garden. That was one of the things we introduced. In general terms, then, I would say that, when we had government power, there was a fundamental change in the care of the elderly by amending the Services Act. It was about the fact that when you meet the elderly on the part of the municipality, you have a duty to start by saying that how can we invest in you, help you, train you so that you can return to being able to do what you've always been able to do, instead of the historical classic approach where you search such more for passive help. This is not something that has taken place completely smoothly, nor has it been done equally well in all municipalities, I would like to say, but it is quite a real change, and it is of course the one that has to have the importance that more and more elderly people are able to do more in their lives. And I also hope that the Danish People's Party will agree that it was good that we did it and that we should follow it to the end, so that it will be the basic principle in the future, that is to say that we should help people as well as possible to be able to be able even in their own lives as long as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321173132	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321173134	Thank you. This means that some initiatives have been taken on an ongoing basis, which will then have to be implemented around, and in some places it has gone well and elsewhere not. What is it, then, that the Social Democrats are going to do differently from this? In her introduction, the rapporteur referred to the fact that she said that the area would be followed. It is such a bit of a political punk to say it, because it may not be so effective. But there's the thing about earmarking funds. The billion that the rapporteur mentioned was earmarked for was quite creative in the municipalities, so it ended up being not very earmarked because it could be included in something else. That's when the Danish People's Party did it, that we said that we're gonna have this dignity billion and we're gonna have to design policies. Has it not been a step in a somewhat better direction than that of the Social Democrats at the time?
ParlaMint-DK_20170321173223	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321173224	I do not recognize the picture that the older billion did not work as intended. It was precisely an earmarked elderly billion, and it was set aside as earmarked and now I look down at the Enhedslisten in response to the fact that in the previous Finance Act, money had been set aside for setting standards in the area of children, in the area of day care, which did not end in the right place. And that's how it's gonna be. That is why I think it would be wrong to stand here on the platform and say that we must earmark everything forever, with what it means, moreover, by increasing working hours in the offices and in the administration rather than in the care of the elderly. On the other hand, it would also be completely wrong to stand here and say that we should never earmark anything. Because I think we need to do it sometimes, but you have to do it with care. We did it in relation to the elderly billion, and in other cases we should not do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321173316	The next question is Mrs Susanne Eilersen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321173320	Thank you for that and thank the rapporteur for many of the good things that have also been said up here. But I'd like to stick with that when there's something that's earmarked and not earmarked. Now we see that that older billion is suddenly not earmarked, and you have such a feeling that now the money has disappeared into a big black hole and a bit of asphalt and other things have been made for it. After all, the Danish People's Party has come with the dignity billionaire, where we have got it earmarked, and then it was a little strange that we heard from the rapporteur's own party colleague, the mayor of Aarhus, that he was quickly out shooting this down and saying that we from the government or Christiansborg's side should not determine the level of service, so he saved other places where he could bring in the dignity billion so that he got a zero-sum budget out of it. What is the rapporteur's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170321173414	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321173416	I do not know the specific quote or the context in which it has been said. I just want to say that I think it actually suits us in here when we're honest and don't act like you can do everything at once, because you can't. It is not possible to settle both against documentation and paperwork and more Djøfs at the City Hall, as the Danish People's Party rapporteur Mr. Jeppe Jakobsen called it, and at the same time he would earmark everything. I think that everyone who sits in a municipal council around, and everyone who sits in the administration and also in the individual nursing homes and home care units, who are going to make these things go up when things are very earmarked, is tearing their hair a little bit, i.e.. the clipping card compared to the elderly in nursing homes. I have visited some nursing homes where they have made it slip very well and sensibly and unbureaucratic into everyday life in the care of these very nursing elderly people. It may seem a little bizarre, that then there must be half an hour on top of the other care, one should sort of fit in somehow. Fortunately, it can be done unbureaucratically. But there is also a risk that it will be such a paper tiger, which steals time and contact from the elderly when it comes to registering and documenting and proving, first to its municipal council and then to the government, how the money has been spent. It may be good in some cases, and in others it is not, but I just think that we should be honest about what happens when we do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321173534	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321173536	I do not think I just got an answer to my question about what the rapporteur thinks about it when the mayor from Denmark's second-largest city has such an opinion on it when earmarked funds come out. Will the rapporteur not also confirm that as soon as earmarks are removed from the older billion, which the rapporteur himself was so pleased to see introduced, the money will crumble everywhere else. Could the rapporteur just try to put a few words on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20170321173606	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321173610	I replied in so far as I said that I do not know about the specific quote, and I think that this response to how the money is being translated into the municipalities is something we must ask the Minister for the Elderly. In all modesty, she has suffered more employees behind her and a little more computational power and, as a result, a little more authority in relation to the municipalities. There are not so many municipalities reporting directly to me how their budgets and accounts land in relation to this. The discussion about whether or not funds should be earmarked is not new, and it is not one that has come with the current government. It was also one we had running in the previous government, as it was me and others who had the pleasure of sitting in negotiations, and I think we will continue to have that. I would just like to appeal to us to be honest about the fact that it also means something that is not quite so desirable when we earmark. You can't have it all at once, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321173656	The next question is Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321173700	Thank you to the rapporteur. To this point, with 14 000 fewer civil servants under the Thorning Government, I regret and say that it was unfortunately under the Thorning Government. Unfortunately, it is also true that it continues with the policy that the Left stands for and which is described in the government basis. So I would just like the rapporteur to confirm that, when economic agreements were adopted for the municipalities under the Thorning Government, which led to a decrease in the number of public employees, this happened in all cases with the votes of the Left. There was an exception where Enhedslisten voted in favour because there was a very modest boost in the municipalities' economy. That is the first thing I would like the rapporteur to confirm, that it was the Left that helped all these many civil servants through the gate. Then I would like to welcome the fact that we have here a joint proposal for adoption. I think there is a fairly good, clear text that says, of course, that the economy needs to keep up with demography. So I think we should welcome that consensus. I hope that we will be able to hold onto it when, after the next parliamentary elections, we have a majority. The last thing I want to ask is the municipal agreements. I can see on the President's strict face that I have spoken a little too long, so I will come back. But I just want what I asked confirmed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321173825	Yeah, that's right. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321173826	It is an advantage that I cannot see the President's face, so I can just drive a little further. I would like to say to the Enhedslisten rapporteur that I believe that soon, either in committee or in this Chamber, we will have a thematic meeting on this issue with the number of civil servants. I know that there was a large reduction in the number of civil servants in the administration and in the defence. The new figures here show, of course, that if you withdraw people in wage subsidies, there has been no fall under the Thorning Government, with which the Left has toured. Perhaps one might think that this is a bit historic, and I should not stand here at all, as I said, and hide the fact that this was a difficult time of economic crisis. I have said this before, and I am not going to pretend anything to anyone, but I do not think it is a perfectly reasonable criticism coming from the Enhedslisten. But we may have to take that in a different context, because it is not really interesting when numbers fly through the air the way they do here. Then I'll just sign back. I am also pleased with the proposal for adoption that we have had made. I am also glad that I can listen to the fact that, although there is no majority behind the proposal for adoption, there is in fact in the Folketing, as I hear it, a majority behind the view that the money should follow the demography. We must then make sure that we stop each other from doing so.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321173947	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321173948	What is then the problem is that that view does not materialise in a majority, because it is quite obvious that if the Danish People's Party could get together to vote for the wording we have here, there would be considerable pressure on the Finance Minister when he is going to sit and negotiate with the municipalities. My second question is this: can the rapporteur not see that if we in the Danish Parliament could now get a majority in favour of this wording, if the Danish People's Party had the courage to vote in favour of such a formulation, a strong pressure would have been put on the Minister of Finance to sit and negotiate with the municipalities? It is not the case that the municipalities are asking for cuts to be made. After all, that is a demand made by the Minister of Finance. And we must give the municipalities the best possible support in those negotiations, because they want to do so I am absolutely sure that they have an economy which means that they can avoid cutting back on the elderly. It is just that I think it is a really boring line that the Social Democratic Party has taken: no matter what the Finance Minister makes of agreements, you vote in favour. You would rather go the other way and say: here is the framework within which to negotiate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321174059	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321174100	I am not going to stand here and wisely take the courage of the Danish People's Party in a future situation, but I would say that I heard the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party have some clear expectations that the ambitions that we have been able to understand in the Minister for the Elderly that the government has in the area of the elderly are being met. That is a good thing, because Enhedslisten's rapporteur is absolutely right that the reason why the elderly minister is the prime minister and the prime minister is the prime minister, and the reason why this is the government we have is that the Danish People's Party keeps them in power. Therefore, it is clear that I am pleased to hear the Danish People's Party say so clearly here today that they have some expectations and some pretty clear expectations, I think, both for the economic agreement that is being negotiated it is like the first shot in the gay that the government has to show that it is not just talk, but that there is action behind the words "and then the future Finance Act." We have to say that we are building up an expectation, and many of us are not only in here, but also in the Danish population who want to keep up with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321174200	The last one, which I can see on the screen has a brief comment, is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321174205	Thank you to the rapporteur. I agree with the rapporteur that honesty is a good thing, and I also believe that honesty comes the longest. I have the proposal for adoption by the Social Democrats, the Enhedslisten, the Radical Left and the SF, and there is no mention whatsoever of what the parties want public growth to be on, apart from the fact that they write that the 0.3 per cent proposed by the government in the government base will lead to welfare degradation. So what is the reason why, in this proposal for adoption, you have not presented what percentage you want in relation to public growth? Can the rapporteur elaborate on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170321174252	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321174254	It does not say with figures, but it says with words in the section just above where we write: the Danish Parliament notes that up to 2025 there will be more than 200,000 older people over 70 years of age, which makes new demands on the elderly and that economic development will follow demography if service levels are to be maintained. We know it means 0.6%. So there are no figures in the proposal for adoption, but it says so in words, so the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party does not need to look further for and, moreover, does not need to carry out a motive analysis. That's what it says; it's nice to read it that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321174335	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321174336	It was just pure curiosity. That was a clear answer to the rapporteur's support for the economic agreement that is being made, regardless of what it looks like. Thank you for the clear, honest answer. Something else I would like to ask is also about the proposal for adoption, where you write: The Danish Parliament takes note of the initiated work on the prevention of bankruptcies in the care of the elderly and expects to be involved in this. ▪ Is it not true that in 2013 the Social Democratic Party put forward a bill specifically on the provision of care for the elderly and that this invitation to tender has also led to the bankruptcies in home care that we have now seen? And if the rapporteur were to rewind time, is there anything in the draft law on procurement put forward by the Social Democratic Party, which the rapporteur regrets?
ParlaMint-DK_20170321174429	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321174430	So, first of all I have to say that with regard to what economic agreement is being negotiated with the municipalities and what kind of economy is in it, it falls back on the government. I also said this very clearly when I discussed it with the Enhedslisten's rapporteur before the end of the year, which means that it will then fall back on those who ensure that the government is a government. That is what I heard from the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party when he stood up here, that is to say it is such a basic principle that we recognise relatively broadly in the Danish Parliament, knowing that Enhedslisten thinks it is nonsense. In relation to the growing number of bankruptcies, we have said very clearly that we believe that we need to have a very thorough analysis of all the bankruptcies, so that we get away from it, that we each believe that the various actors believe that we know why the bankruptcies are happening. There are some who point to the amendment to the law mentioned by the rapporteur; there are some who point to the economic priorities of the municipalities; there are some who point to the fact that it is a question of what kind of companies are bidding; there are some who point to one, the other and the third. I think that we need to get beyond the guesswork and what the individual thinks and get deeper, and there we hope that the government will come up with something we are a little sad that it has not turned into an external investigation. And then we are also very willing to look at the legal amendment from 2013 if that is where something needs to be done. But it cannot be based on guesswork.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321174546	Thank you to the rapporteur. I do not see any more brief remarks. The next speaker in the rapporteur's series is Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321174609	First of all, I would like to thank the DF for taking the initiative on the question debate today. Older care and care for the elderly are a cornerstone of the Danish welfare society, and care and care are even very high priorities for us in the Left. All Danes must be able to meet their old age safely with the certainty that whether you have a great or less need for care and care, yes, there are warm hands ready to step in when e.g. the relatives do not manage the task or do not have the opportunity to solve the task. In the Left, we have taken on the task of trying to solve a number of the obvious challenges facing the care of the elderly and the care of the elderly. We have taken initiatives which have called for billions of priorities and initiatives which are more in the nature of seeking or seeking the work of committees and Commissions. Let me give you a few examples. The left went to elections in the field of health and the elderly. In 2016 alone, we raised the health and elderly area by 3.4 billion. kr. This is a significant boost that we are proud of, and that very boost is secured through a good collaboration with DF. This is a significant boost which, in the health sector alone, is far more than what the former Socialist-led government was up to. For the first time in the history of Denmark, we have had an independent minister for the elderly with his own area of responsibility, and this sends out a clear signal that we are serious when we say that the area of the elderly is a priority. With the 2016 Finance Act, we set aside 1 billion. kr., the dignity billionaire, so you saw in the municipalities out there, where you are closest to the citizens, for example. can use the money for more warm hands, and you can develop the skills you already have to look after our elderly, to mention just a few examples. Now that we are putting all the money to the municipalities, it is because we know very well that the municipal politicians, the nursing staff and the local elders have their finger on the pulse and know where the shoe is pressing. A year ago I visited a local nursing home where they enjoyed chair gymnastics, and the first thing I was met by was the smell of warm meatballs and what pleasant air! Because it makes so much sense for volunteers and employees to exercise chairs together in the morning and then sit down at the dinner table and enjoy the warm and freshly prepared meatballs. Look, it's quality of life. And now that we have set aside 450 million. kr. to build kitchens in the nursing homes too, it is because the smell of fresh food and the ability to contribute to the cooking itself provide both quality of life and is a meaningful activity. Does that mean everything's okay? No, there is room for improvement, and that is why we, among other things. in the pool has just presented a new national action plan for dementia, which is intended to ensure previous detection and greater focus on relatives and which is intended to make Denmark a dementia-friendly country. That is why, with the action plan for the elderly medical patient, we have set aside 1.2 billion. kr. We want to get older medical patients away from cold hospitals where we have all too often heard that they are in public view. It's unworthy. Our sick and elderly must lie in safe, warm patient rooms, and once they have recovered, they must go home, and maybe they need some extra care in the early days. Too often we have heard stories from elderly care, most recently on Lolland, that the right care and care are not provided. Fortunately, the Patient Safety Agency has been involved in the matter, and I have a clear expectation that it will now be corrected. Because you have to be able to meet your old age safely, and you have to be safe in your own home if that's where you want to be. Dignity is not just caring and warming hands; dignity is also being able to live the life you choose, even when you grow older. That is why it is crucial for us in the Left that there is something to choose from. We have no sacred cows, in terms of whether it should be public or private, but we firmly believe that people are different and have different needs and preferences and that they have it throughout their lives, whether we are talking about day care institutions, schools or care for the elderly. There must be the possibility that you can choose the offers that best suit you from the cradle to the jar, to now use a slightly popular expression. Both the cutting-card system for the self-chosen activities, which we have prioritised 370 million. kr. There are very good examples of a palette of choice, and the free choice of care system is very good. When we want a service review of the supply part of the care sector, it is, of course, because the legislation implemented by the former Socialist-led government appears to be problematic. Because the focus should not be on price alone, quality watchman to a great extent too, and we also expressed this in 2013 when the legislation was adopted by a red majority. We are becoming more and more older, and this does not mean that we want to see a 1:1 increase in expenditure in the area of the elderly, but it means that we need to raise a flag of attention so that the municipalities focus on welfare technology, innovative solutions and, above all, good management, so that in the future we can also live up to the Elder Commission's recommendations on an elderly care that influences our own lives, respect for diversity and, last but not least, a dignified end to life. The Left can support the proposal for adoption which the DF's rapporteur has previously read out.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321175146	Thank you. There are, for the time being, two inscribed for short remarks. Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten, is the first.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321175152	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. I would just like the rapporteur to confirm that, despite the fact that there has been a dignified billion of people, and I am not supposed to deny that, despite the fact that more money has been spent in the area of the elderly, the costs are per capita. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first time that we have had a debate on this subject. I would just like the rapporteur to confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321175220	What I can confirm is that, overall, more money is spent in the municipalities on care for the elderly than under the former Social Democrat-led government, which Enhedslisten supported.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321175232	I did not have time to give the floor to the rapporteurs, but it did work out anyway. Excuse me, President). And then it is the questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321175238	Yes, but will the rapporteur please deal with what I am asking? What is crucial is how much money has been set off per year. older. Because it is of no use to stand and say that more money has been set aside in the area of the elderly if the number of older people has risen proportionately much more. That's what's interesting, isn't it? Then the rapporteur will not only confirm that, while the rapporteur's party has been in office with the government, and I say specifically, too, is the amount spent per year. older citizens of this country, becoming ever fewer crowns? And that is the reason for the very boring stories we see in the media.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321175317	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321175318	But in the Left we are immensely concerned that if you are older and if you have a need for care, you must have the help and care that you need. And it is quite true that there are more elderly people. What we have seen is an increase in the number of young elderly people who, after all, have less care needs than the elderly. That's why I'm not so preoccupied with crowns and ears per person. older. I am concerned that you get the care and care that you need. And we can see that, although there have been more younger older people, the municipalities are actually spending significantly more money on care for the elderly than under the previous government.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321175405	The next brief remark is Mrs Astrid Krag, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321175411	Does the rapporteur of the Left recognize that the money can only be spent once, and if so will the rapporteur of the Left explain to us why it is that the government wants to use the economic scope created by the reforms of recent years to tax cuts rather than to ensure that the money goes with the increasing number of elderly people?
ParlaMint-DK_20170321175433	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321175434	I do not think there is anyone here, perhaps anyone other than Astrid Krag in fact, who is in doubt that this government is so giving priority to the whole area of the elderly, and that is not just something we are saying, it is actually something we are dealing with. That's one of them. That is why we have set 1.2 billion. kr. Astrid Krag, as former SF health rapporteur, only gave priority to 200 million patients in the eyes of the goose. kr. to get the elderly medical patients away from the hallways and into safe patient rooms. Frankly, I do not think anyone is in any doubt that we are serious when we say that we give priority to the elderly. I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech that we have a minister for the elderly who has an independent area of responsibility. It is, of course, extremely important to give priority to the elderly, not just as something you say, as at the time S, SF and Radicals were perhaps also in fact with a plan that now you would have the elderly medical patients away from the corridors. Maybe it was just S and SF that gets shook up but it was something they said, it wasn't something you really did something about.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321175545	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321175547	It was quite crazy, however, as it was nowhere near being an answer to what I asked. I just have to say that the action plan for the elderly medical patients, which the rapporteur is now again, and also the last time we were here in the Chamber, reproaches the rapporteur's party itself. It was the pool of bets that made it. It is something strange to stand and scold when it was an agreement you were in, and that was not at all what I asked. The money that is in the future that could go to ensure that the economy followed with the increasing number of elderly people who could go to ensure dignified care and care, the government will spend on tax cuts. It is in the government base, and that is what I asked about. Would the rapporteur please explain why it is more important for the government to provide tax relief than to ensure that the money goes with the increasing number of elderly people in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20170321175632	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321175634	I have to say to the Socialist rapporteur that I simply do not recognise the premise on which the rapporteur bases his argument, and I would really just like to read a little too funny from the motion for a resolution in which the Left is involved and the proposal for adoption, which also includes the Social Democratic Party. It's just such a small short sequence. It's all about demography... New demands are made on the elderly and economic development is accompanied by demography if service levels are to be maintained. It is such a small cut from the joint proposal for adoption in which the Social Democratic Party is involved. And now I'm gonna read it from the one in which the Left is in: In order to maintain the level of service, new requirements are imposed on the elderly and the economy associated with it. I fully recognise that demography is changing and that it also means that we have to look at the economy with which the elderly are to be taken care of, and I think I have said very clearly that we in the Left have a very clear ambition and a very clear objective of being older, we must have the necessary care and care.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321175737	The next brief remark is Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321175740	Thank you. In other words, I think it is a good thing if the Left has changed its mind in the sense that the economic development of the public sector is now going to keep pace with demographic developments, which we know will be the fact that there will be more older people, which also requires more money to come with. But how does it work when you have written in your own government base that you only want a public growth of 0.3 per cent?? For the Minister for Finance, this requires a public growth rate of 0.6%. This means, of course, that we will see a continuation of the developments we have already seen now, not just from last year to this year, but in fact over a long period of time when the expenditure per year is being spent. the individual elderly fall and fall. It will continue with the policy the government is pursuing with its own government base. This is not, of course, linked to the vote that the Left has signed here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321175837	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321175838	Well, what it's all about is that I've said it before, and I'm happy to say it again... that we on the Left have a very, very sharp focus on being older, and if you need care and care, then you have to have the necessary care and care. I have also said before, and I would like to say again, that under this government, the area of older people is a very different priority than we have seen in the past, and that is also with the economy. In the municipalities, more money is spent in the area of the elderly than was done under the former Socialist-led government. So I simply do not understand why both the Enhedslisten's rapporteur and the Social Democrat rapporteur have mentioned 0.3 per cent on several occasions. Because what it has to be about is saying: what is actually going on out there in reality? Will funds for the elderly be given priority? Yes, there is. We have given priority to a dignity billion, for example. More warm hands? Yes, we do.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321175933	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321175935	I think it is extremely relevant to look at what is going on out there in reality. And there I think there are several things we can look at. One thing is what is actually of crowns and ears to the elderly. I have some figures here that say: In 2015 we had 42,032 kr. per elderly, who were over 65 years of age. In 2016, i.e. the following year, that figure had fallen to $1,280. We therefore have a declining trend in the economy per head. older people out there. This means that we see many older people, you can see that in the press too, or if you ask in your own company that gets a care that is not okay. It is not good enough, as the Left rapporteur otherwise stands and talks about it here. There is a need for both a development that is not only accompanied by the fact that there will be more elderly people, but also a development that will correct the fact that there have been cuts for many, many years in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321180031	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321180033	I certainly recognise that there is room for improvement as well. That is what I said in my rapporteur's speech. Is everything okay? No, it's not. We've heard some really sad stories, among others. from Lolland Municipality. But that does not change the fact that when you look at the municipalities under one, you will find that more money is being spent now than did under the former Social Democratic-led government, which Enhedslisten supported. And I think it is really important to keep a focus on changing the composition of the elderly and the care needs. And you can't make such a 1-1 comparison because the younger elderly have less care needs than the older ones.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321180119	I would like to make a brief comment on one more point, Mr President. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321180124	Thank you. Technology can be used for very good, but as we have also seen with, for example. digital post, there is, after all, a population that is not so safe with technological developments. Now the rapporteur has said that we need to make more use of welfare technology, and in this respect I would like to hear whether there is any reservation in the Left about the speed with which to introduce these new technological solutions, so that it will happen at a pace that is compatible with the human perspective in this, so that no one will get anything down on them that they are not safe about. Do you have any reservations about the speed with which to proceed with welfare technology?
ParlaMint-DK_20170321180212	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321180213	I think it is very important to use welfare technology right into the corners where it makes sense. I recently visited a nursing home where we, among other things. discussed the possibility that you could have these mats lying next to the beds, so if a dement or an elderly person steps out on the mat, there is an alarm that goes off so that the carers who are there at night, for example. is aware that someone has now fallen out of bed or someone may have got out of bed in the middle of the night. I think this is a very good example of how to keep an eye on and show care for elderly people who may need it without necessarily being intrusive in a wrong way in an elderly person's life. That is why my starting point is that welfare technology should be used where it makes sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321180302	The questioner with the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321180304	The rapporteur has now addressed the issue of dementia, and we know that demented people often tend to return to the period of their lives when they were in the 20s and 30s, and at that time there was no such thing as that. robot vacuum cleaners, and therefore many demented can be frightened by a robot vacuum cleaner because they simply don't know what it is that is running around on the floor down there, and you can't understand what it is that is happening around you. Should we not wait a little longer to push on with this welfare technology until the generations that have grown up with this technological development become caring, so that we do not get something to the head of people who are not really ready to accept this technology?
ParlaMint-DK_20170321180350	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321180352	I believe, as I said earlier, that it is very important to use welfare technology where it makes sense and where you feel secure about it. I think it would be perfectly natural for nursing staff to engage in dialogue with the elderly, demented or not, about what makes sense; it may be a robot vacuum cleaner, a sheet on the bed that reacts if you pee in the bed, pecks down on the floor next to the bed that reacts if you step down on it, or an alarm in the pocket that reacts if you go out of a door you should not have walked out of. There is, of course, a wealth of opportunities that can make the everyday life of the individual easier, but also more secure for the individual as well as for the relatives, and that is where I think it is really important to take the time that is needed and going into dialogue about what kind of welfare technology solutions make sense for both the care staff and the user.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321180448	I guess I have the last question in this round. This is Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321180456	Thank you. And also thanks for the descriptions of how welfare technology looks like anno 2017. I can inform the rapporteur that this was the case with welfare technology in 1992, where I, among other things, saw it. worked with demente himself. At the time they also had ring mats, and I have seen demented jumping over them for the simple reason that then they did not disturb someone with the ring of the bells by stepping around the mat. For that matter, I have seen demented pills of their clothes, because it was annoying that some followed when you walked out the door and that some were apparently advised about it. I really enjoy the optimism of the Left, and I also want to be infected by it. However, I would also like to emphasise here that innovation and debureaucratisation and welfare technology in the long run are some of the things the municipalities have been working on in the last 10 years. On the other hand, it looks awkward to reap the prize, which should have resulted in relatively more warm hands, which could be used for the relatively more elderly. Growth of 0.3%. appear from the government's basis. So will the rapporteur make a suggestion as to how much more is needed to deal with demographic developments in relation to the number of elderly people in the coming years?
ParlaMint-DK_20170321180624	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321180625	I am not entirely sure that I understand the rapporteur's question. I'm sorry. I understand that the rapporteur has some user experience from his previous work. I also have a lot of user experience from my previous work, namely as a municipal politician. And there we very much enjoy looking around in the welfare technology landscape and making use of some of the solutions. And I must also be honest and say that I do not need to know when they were invented, i.e. whether it was before or after 1992, when the questioner got his experience, I understand. But I simply do not understand the question. So I would like to ask the President if there is any possibility that the questioner might repeat it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321180710	The questioner certainly has a question of 30 seconds left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321180717	Then we'll just take advantage of it. At the time I also had experience, I can perhaps also stress, back in 1992. I simply ask whether the rapporteur agrees that 0.3 per cent. This means savings in the municipal sector, i.e. that it does not extend to demographic developments in relation to the number of elderly people. When we get more and more elderly people in the coming years, who also have an increasing need for care, this also means that relatively more resources will be needed. All economists say 0.3 percent. Not enough. On the contrary, KORA has calculated that it is more than one billion. kr. in the coming years to meet the demographic development needs of the elderly at all. Will the rapporteur confirm that this is also a figure that she can recognise?
ParlaMint-DK_20170321180808	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321180810	I can certainly say that I have not read the KORA report, so I do not know the figures to which the rapporteur refers. However, what I can confirm is that it is important that you continue to focus on management in the municipalities, focus on innovation, focus on welfare technology solutions, and that you also realise that the elderly, of whom we see more right now, are the younger elderly who have a different care need. I have said this before, and I am happy to say it again: you have a different need for care from the elderly. And fortunately, the generation of older people that we will see now becomes more self-reliant, more mobile. Will there be someone who has a great need for care? Yes, there will be, but there will also be a lot of people who can actually take care of themselves in a completely different way than we have been used to in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321180859	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more short remarks right now. The next speaker in the rapporteur's line is Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321180907	Thank you for that, President. My grandmother had her birthday not long ago, and I have promised not to tell her how old she was, but on the occasion of the day she was visited by her neighbor, Torfinn. He is over 90 years old, and he has good health and does well, but he was quite upset when he came to visit, despite the fact that there was coffee and cake on the table, because he has a wife who is demented and who is also plagued by urinary tract infections that even make her more confused, and she needs quite a lot of help and it hangs on Torfinn. Torfinn must help her out of bed, he must help her to bed, he must help her in the toilet, and he must drive down to the health center to fetch tablets that he must also keep track of. He's actually the one who's in charge of housekeeping and helping his wife, and he's having a hard time dealing with that; he's an older master, so it might make a lot of sense. So he had applied for home help for his wife. But the municipality refused them, and the reason was that when he could mow the grass in the garden, yes, then he could also handle all the other things. Therefore, the answer was that he had to let the garden grow, so that he had some more power, or so that they had to move each to his own home so that his wife could go to a foster home and get help in that context • after 65 years of marriage! When I heard that story from my grandmother when we visited her in connection with her birthday, I was also saddened, just as Torfinn had been, because I think it is a good example of how wrong things are sometimes with the home help and the care that we offer to our elderly people. It's a complete lack of understanding of what gives life value.Torfinn has always looked after the garden, it's nice, there's flowers and everything, so the thing about saying that you can just let things go is for me to look a little like saying that you can just let yourself go, and with a little help I actually think they could stay in the house that they built back in 1957 on the ground next to my grandmother and grandpa. But the answer was no. Unfortunately, it is far from a unique story. It says something about how hard it is to get help today when you need it as older people. There are many weakened elderly people who, like Torfinn's wife, do not get the help they need. That is the consequence of the cuts that we have seen over many years here. We can just take a look at the number of home help hours. If we look at this, we will see that, since 2008, almost 6 million hours of home help have been cut for the elderly over 65 years on an annual basis, and that is surely during a period when the number of older people over 65 years of age has increased considerably, over 20%. This cannot be explained by healthy elderly people. Nor can it be explained by welfare technology, rehabilitation and all these words about management and everything else we hear about. First of all, it can be explained by stories like the one I have just told, namely stories about the elderly, who are left to themselves and do not get the home help that they need. This means that older people experience having to live in dirt; that some only bathe every two weeks; that they get very little out, so they can't keep the social life going, and that's not okay, it's not dignified. We also see that home help is affected by bankruptcies. We have figures for it, and from them it appears that 43 private companies have so far gone bankrupt, and this, of course, also has consequences for citizens, employees and municipalities who have put themselves in a situation where they depend on them to deliver. It is my view that basic welfare, which we are talking about here, in other words personal care and practical help for the elderly, who need someone to help them, is a responsibility for the community. We should not force the municipalities to leave that to private people. And if the municipalities choose to use private suppliers anyway, yes, at least here in Parliament we must ensure that there are requirements for the private companies, which means that we do not end up in situations where home help suddenly cannot drive out because the company has turned the key. At nursing homes, too, we can do much better. The citizens who are going to nursing homes today know that we are more weakened than was the case in the past. Therefore, it is also quite unacceptable when we hear about nursing homes where there can be down to only one employee on duty during the night shift. It is completely irresponsible, not only to the elderly, who are dependent on help, but also to the employees. That is why I think we should look at the fact that we have national rules which ensure that there are at least two people on duty at a time, of course with appropriate training. It is strange that as a society we are getting richer, but at the same time we are seeing increasingly less help for the elderly. Unfortunately, the explanation is very simple: we have a government that would rather spend money on tax cuts rather than on our common welfare. And although money has really been set aside in the Finance Act for the elderly, it does not match the fact that there are more elderly people who need help, and that is why we see when we look at crowns and ears per year. , that the number has become lower. If we are simply to keep the same level of service that we have today, and that is to say we are not going to put right the cuts that have been made, yes, we must have a growth in public consumption which is twice what the government is proposing. That is why I am pleased that we have at least put forward a proposal for adoption together with the Social Democrats, Radicals and the SF, which emphasizes it, and we will of course do all we can to pursue it so that we can live up to the dignity of care for the elderly in the future. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321181523	Thank you. No brief comments have been requested, so we thank the Enhedslisten rapporteur. The next is Mrs May-Britt Kattrup as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321181534	Thank you. First of all, it is important to point out that the only fair and decent thing is that we in Denmark have proper care for the elderly, which allows for individual needs and wishes and which guarantees citizens self-determination over their own lives. Before the elections, the Liberal Alliance wanted to give priority to care for the elderly, and we still want that to happen. And when we went into government, the priority of care for the elderly was written into the government base. Older citizens must be able to meet their old age safely. All their lives they have paid the world's highest taxes, and all their lives they have been promised that they will be well cared for when they get older and need help. We have to live up to this, which is why more funds have been provided in both 2016 and 2017. An important element in dignified care for the elderly is the possibility of choosing the solutions that each one prefers. It is not safe, dignified or respectful if others, including public authorities, are to decide who should go to your private home, when to go to the bathroom and bath, what food to eat, when to get up and when to go to bed, or for that matter where to live and how to live. All these banal things should be a human right to decide, and in order to make it possible, it is necessary to have free choice. However, the right to free choice is only worthwhile if there is something to choose from, and this requires the authorities to cooperate with private actors. Unfortunately, we have seen several boring bankruptcies which have had a negative impact on both citizens and municipalities and, of course, on the companies themselves. In order to minimise the risk of bankruptcy in the future, it is important that the municipalities first and foremost define clearly what quality they want and that the price only plays a part in this. It is also important that the municipalities assess the companies and the specific offer • that you look at price, the size and competence of the company in relation to the required task and quality, and that after the conclusion of the contract you have continuous contact with the company and follow up on whether the quality delivered meets the agreement. Work has been started to look at the problems of bankruptcy, and I hope that this will lead to increased quality and better cooperation in relation to private suppliers. They are important for future security and dignity of care for the elderly. In this work it is important to look at errors and shortcomings in the public as well as in the private sector we have seen flaws and shortcomings in both sectors. And equally important is to look at the places where it works well and where employees and residents are happy. Fortunately, there are more of them, and we need to learn better from the good examples, whether they are private or public. We must remember how much citizens value free elections and the satisfaction of private people is quite high. It is therefore also important for citizens to be informed of all their choices and not automatically referred only to municipal solutions. In many cases, these are weak citizens who do not have the surplus to make an active election. Another challenge is how we use resources. There are increasing numbers of older people, as I believe we have heard sometimes here today, and that must be taken into account, but not one by one. We must include healthy ageing, technological development, smarter workflows and less and more intelligent bureaucracy. Documentation and registration are necessary and important, but we must get rid of the part that is not necessary and that is of no benefit to anyone. And the necessary documentation must be made most appropriate. An analysis in this area is also under way, and I expect a great deal to be done here. Focusing on good care for the elderly, we want to ensure that older citizens can get the help they need and that the necessary framework and warm hands are provided for caring and personal contact. The Liberal Alliance supports the proposal for adoption which was read out by Mr. Jeppe Jakobsen from the Danish People's Party. And I should like to welcome the Conservatives, who unfortunately could not be here today, and to say that they also support the proposal for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321182035	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mr. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321182040	Thank you. It is true that we need to use this welfare technology and that we need to look at debureaucratisation, but does the Liberal Alliance rapporteur really believe that there is so much to be done on both fronts? We know it from the FOA, which has been out to say that very many of their members actually already spend their free time on the documentation. So we actually already owe money in that account, and if we had to pay for the work that is being delivered, then we are behind on points, why the first bureaucracy we had to abolish is actually just paying an old bill that is waiting. Can the rapporteur not see that we do not have so much paper out there that it can be abolished that it can push a lot in relation to quality in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20170321182136	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321182138	No, I really can't, and I'm not alone in not being able to. The former government's Productivity Commission also came to the conclusion that there are many billions to be saved by efficiency and by removing some of the paperwork, and CEPOS has calculated that if all municipalities were run just as well as Frederiksberg Municipality and Vejle Municipality, one could save 29 billion. kr., which could then be used for e.g. Older welfare. So I'm not alone in thinking that there's a lot to get, and 29 billion. kr. is, however, a great deal that we could use for very much welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321182222	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321182225	Now it can be easy to run a municipality like this. Frederiksberg Municipality, in that there is a very high population density, so for example. in the care of the elderly do not have to go out for long trips on the roads, but leave it alone. I'd like to come back to this with just a little bit of efficiency and cutting down on the paper piles. It is true that many calculations have been made, but can the rapporteur perhaps reveal why all this has not just been put into practice immediately, since there is so much money to be collected in this area? Could it not perhaps point to the fact that many of these calculations are estimates and maybe they are not really based on anything concrete, or will the rapporteur elaborate on what should be done, that people say it is important for them to hold on to unnecessary bureaucracy?
ParlaMint-DK_20170321182317	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321182318	I want to come back to this about running the municipalities, which are the best runners. In those calculations there have been reservations about social differences, and that is also why I am, for example. took Vejle with him. In general, however, the calculations take into account the differences between Lolland-Falster and, for example, Lolland-Falster. Hørsholm. Then the rapporteur asks why I do not think it has been introduced a long time ago. I think there are several reasons for that. One is that it is not very easy to introduce it; it is not something you just do. That is why it is necessary to focus as much on what we are now trying to put on it. It is also because no one has made enough efforts to do this before. That is also what we are trying to do now. That is why we hope and believe that it can be retrieved now.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321182408	The next question is Mrs Astrid Krag, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321182411	Thank you. When the Liberal Alliance went to elections in 2015, when the rest of us were also in elections and there was an election campaign, they went to elections on an economic plan that led to a minus growth of 0.5%. annual. As you know, we are not there, and the government is not there either. However, I would ask the Liberal Alliance rapporteur to explain how the ambition of the Liberal Alliance, that is to say, that it should be cut significantly harder than what would remain with the government, which is bad enough, is linked to dignified care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321182445	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321182447	Now it was the case that when the Liberal Alliance went to the polls, we had got our plan figured out by the Ministry of Finance, as I also told Mrs Astrid Krag the last time we stood here. We'd set 26 billion. kr. It was even more than 0.5% that we wanted to be more efficient every year, it was actually 1%. a year. And yet we had 26 billion. kr. of demographic change.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321182521	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321182523	So let me ask you a different question. The Liberal Alliance will make the public sector more efficient 10 per cent. From 2015 to 2025. 10% I mean, one out of ten SOSUs you say hello to the nursing home must be gone. If we look at crowns and ears, this corresponds to more than what we spend in total on our care for the elderly in Denmark. So let me just try to ask again: how is this related to an elderly care that is already under pressure today? And now, after all, the Liberal Alliance has a party member, who is the minister for the elderly. How is it related to a dignified care for the elderly if you have to wave goodbye to one in ten employees in the nursing homes?
ParlaMint-DK_20170321182603	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321182605	Now it is the case that the Liberal Alliance has never ever had plans to fire a single employee. We wanted fewer public employees at natural departure. We would not hire more people, as technological development is exploited, as smarter workflows and less bureaucracy are created, and the bureaucracy that then has to be, because there has to be something, would be planned in a more appropriate way. So that's the context of our plan. But we never planned to fire anyone at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321182638	The next question is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321182644	Thank you. I note that the rapporteur attaches great importance to the issue, and it cannot be taken as a surprise that the public authorities should not at least decide who should come to the home of the elderly, and therefore it is important to have free elections, the rapporteur emphasizes in his speech. I assume that we agree that the elderly must also be thanked by the helper (s) that the private firm may have hired, and which must therefore carry out the aid, but which, according to the many bankruptcies, the citizen is also in danger of losing. What initiatives does the Liberal Alliance intend to take in this regard?
ParlaMint-DK_20170321182726	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321182728	The bankruptcies that have taken place have been very boring, and unfortunately they have had negative consequences. It is a boring thing, and we must try to avoid it in the future. That is why a working group has now been set up to find out what these bankruptcies are and how we can avoid them or minimize the risk to them, plus that if they do happen anyway, there must be a readiness. It is the case that the industry, together with the DA, has already given a guideline on how to try to avoid these things. It is important when the municipalities make an offer that they very clearly and clearly tell what quality they want, what quality they want, and that they then assess the company that offers the assignment. Is the price realistic? Does the company have a size that makes it realistic that it can carry out the task? Does it have the power to do so? Does it have the experience of doing so? You have to go in and assess the things before you make a contract with the companies, and afterwards it is so important that you keep an ongoing dialogue with the private company, so that you see if they actually deliver the quality that has been agreed and that has been paid for whether some problems have arisen along the way, whether they can have a dialogue on these things and whether there is something that needs to be adjusted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321182858	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321182900	It is certainly a lot of things that the municipalities must take care of if they are to solve all those tasks. However, we have to note that these are difficult choices, as the rapporteur himself mentions, when we have to see through what they are for healthy companies that may continue to exist and where they may lag behind and where, if we stay in that terminology, we also have to ensure a readiness. It may be difficult to have a response if it is true, a great many tasks that are outsourced, but I wonder if LA has concrete proposals on how to ensure citizens' insight into the financial resilience of companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321182939	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321182941	There are no more tasks to be carried out by the municipality in relation to any private enterprise which buys the services of other private enterprises. So there's nothing weird about it. Any business or any private person we do it ourselves when it's our own private money... evaluates what you buy in relation to what you have to give for it. It's a very natural reaction if it's your own money you're dealing with. When it comes to assessing the company's finances, you can ask for an account. After all, they are publicly available, and you can ask from a partner to gain more insight into their accounts and financial conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321183026	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. The next speaker is Mrs Pernille Schnoor as rapporteur for the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321183038	Thank you. The care of the elderly has been discussed often and extensively in the press, in the Folketing and in the Danish homes in recent years. The discussion has been critical of elderly care with lack of care and rigid rules, control systems, stopwatching and schedules. In short, care for the elderly has become too much of a machine and too little of care. Control and standardisation have affected human flexibility and care. Users have increasingly become a customer who must have delivered a standard product rather than a citizen who must have individual support for a good and dignified life. It may be wondering, for example, that... The home help in Denmark is organized on the basis of management tools which are not used in other social services areas, where the framework and purpose are, on the other hand, the prevailing principle of organisation. For example, the meticulous organisation of home care does not take place in the day institutions where each child is not given a number of minutes of reading, hugs, toilet visits or the like. On the other hand, the pedagogical management of objectives for work with children is managed from a development point of view and in confidence in the skills of the staff. The above points are largely verbal quotes from a resolution tabled by the Social Democrat Party on 17 February 2004. In 2004, in other words 13 years ago, there was a motion for a resolution with this wording. It is worrying that so little has happened in the 13 years. So could we not shake hands with each other that we are now getting something done about the standardisation and the lack of focus on care and on well-being that, unfortunately, we are still seeing very many places today? A good place to start could be to look at the good and positive examples that we also have in the care of the elderly today, and to learn from them. In week 10 I spent two working days at two different dementia care centres, namely the Dagmarsminde home in Grassted and the municipal dementia home in Hillerød. Dagmarsminde is governed by a principle that they call a caring process. The leader has a mission to replace pills with care. So if a resident is worried, the staff make sure to activate in a different way, and this requires intensive care. It was a really nice experience to visit Grete, Lis, Jytte and all the other people with dementia who live on Dagmarsminde. They read among other things. small letters up, as they had written to me, about how they think the care of the elderly should be in Denmark, and it is therefore citizens and people with dementia to a very difficult degree. They had all written me a letter, and they read them themselves. One of the residents said: it is important that there is time for the residents, that there is time to listen, that there is time to take small walks and get fresh air, and then it is really important that there is time for small daily chores, for example. to put clothes together or to cut out fruit. Another said in this regard: it is important that one is still satisfied with oneself. That's one of the things they spend time on at Dagmarsminde. I had the same good experiences at the Ålholm home, which is a municipal demenshus, which is operated on the basis of Eden Alternative principles. At the Ålholm home 46 residents live in six different small houses. Here I saw a great focus on the individual and on combating loneliness, boredom and helplessness. There is no institutional furniture, there is no institutional language, there are dogs and cats, and residents have a high degree of self-determination and participation. For example: The residents themselves choose the colors of the walls and their furniture for their common living room, and they have the opportunity to get a picture of their front door, which they had where they lived before, at their own door at the care center, so it is easy for them to find their own accommodation. Here, a municipal budget has succeeded in creating great well-being among the residents and great job satisfaction among the employees. At Dagmarsminde, the leaders and employees have been working since they opened last February to step the residents out of their daily dose of sedative, antipsychotic, painkillers and antidepressants, and they have succeeded. In the alternative, we are positive about new initiatives, experiments and forms of organisation such as those I have mentioned here. We believe that it is possible to create an elderly care that focuses on humanity, care, participation and good everyday life. It depends to a large extent on the organisation, structure, values and management focus, and I have a proposal for adoption: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that demographic development places new demands on the elderly and the economy associated with it if the level of service is to be maintained. The Folketing considers that older citizens who can no longer take care of themselves must have the help they need and that there must be the time needed for the effort. The focus should be removed from standardisation and control and instead be on the skills of the employees and on activities, presence, care and the well-being of the individual. The Danish Parliament takes note of the initiated work on the prevention of bankruptcies in the care of the elderly and expects to be involved in this. Parliament expects the government to follow developments in the area of the elderly, including with more elderly people, so that dignity and self-determination are guaranteed in old age. V 54). Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321183613	Thank you. The proposal for adoption will then be included in the further debate. There are no requests for short remarks, so we thank the alternative rapporteur. The next speaker is Mrs Lotte Rod as rapporteur for the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321183629	Thank you. This really is a dangerous debate when you're such a mess like me who usually eat dinner at noon. 6:00. However, despite the time, I would still like to take this opportunity to thank the Danish People's Party for raising this debate and asking the government to respond to, on the one hand, what you see of problems in the care of the elderly and, on the other hand, what the government will do to ensure that all Danes can face their old age with security. Because if there is one thing that is certain, it is that we all get older every day. We can't know how old we're gonna be, but I think we all share a desire to have a long and good life, where we're gonna be okay until the end. Because we all want to be able to cope with old age with security. As the other rapporteurs have said, we hear various examples. We see both examples of places where you do amazingly beautiful and meaningful activities, but we also hear examples of people who are lying with a wet diaper so long that you just think that you really don't want that for anyone. After all, it is both a question of management, of professionalism and of human vision, but it is also a question of money, so that there are enough employees at all. That is why I also take the view that the government, in other words the Left, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives, is failing when we put forward an economic policy based on 0.3 per cent public growth when we know that 0.6 per cent must be achieved. to maintain the well-being we have today. Because then we look with open eyes into savings, not only in the area of the elderly, but also in the area of children and school. We had a long discussion about that last time. Because I suggested to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party that the Danish People's Party should perhaps also be counted as part of the responsibility as long as the Danish People's Party holds its hand under the government. Sir. Finn Sørensen also asked a little about it, and it is not because we have to repeat the debate from the end, so I just think that I will say instead that I hope that at some point the Danish People's Party will put forward an overall economic plan, of which we can also see what it is for public growth The Danish People's Party wants and how it is financed, so that we do not end up in the same situation as in the last period, when the Danish People's Party had made this very fine leaflet about wishes in the area of the elderly, and they, when we asked about it, had not financed one of the elements. That's not how politics works. If there is no funding behind it, then nothing will come of it. So it is just an invitation to do so before we meet again next time and discuss elderly care, and that it could be that the Danish People's Party will present a comprehensive plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321183955	There is a brief comment from Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321183959	Thank you. I would just like to ask the Radicals how high the Radicals think growth should be in the area of the elderly and how it should be financed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321184007	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321184009	In our 2025 plan, we have proposed that there should be a total growth in public consumption of 0.6%.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321184018	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321184021	After all, we are discussing the area of the elderly, and what should the increase be? Then there is an increase of 0.6%. in the area of the elderly, and how is it financed?
ParlaMint-DK_20170321184031	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321184033	We have not insisted that it should be exactly the same. We think it makes sense that, when demographic development is as it is, we set aside money for it, but it also means that there must be an opportunity to make the priorities we want to do. What is most important for the Radical Left is children and education. This means that there may be some shifts, but I believe that we should enter into the discussion with a starting point that when demographic development requires 0.6%, that is what we are setting off.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321184103	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. The next speaker is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen as rapporteur for the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321184111	Thank you. There is no doubt that care for the elderly is challenged. I know, because for many years I have represented the staff who work in the care of the elderly. Only last week I had a visit from Aarhus by 20 representatives from the elderly. You could say that the situation has certainly not changed, on the contrary. Everyone is talking about the squeezed budgets, and several attempts are being made at least on paper to make time strike. An ordinary social and health care worker recently wrote on Facebook that she believed that there is a need for a rebellion in the care of the elderly. The publication was soon liked and divided 700 times, moreover followed by numerous examples of problems that need to be solved: 5 minutes for eye dripping and changing a colostomy, overtime to reach work at all, no driving time, overlap on time, so you have to be in two places at once, 26 km on a bike for 24 visits on a single shift and as late as today: more violence at nursing homes and all stakeholders point out that the solution is to have more hands so that you can create the necessary calm. Private care for the elderly is also under pressure, and unfortunately the result is far too many bankruptcies to the detriment of the elderly and employees. I would just remind you that in the last period we are talking about 40. More and more elderly people find it difficult to get searched for the necessary help, and that actually means that we have a lot of black figures for citizens who, in the past, would have had the necessary care for the elderly, but who are now simply being referred to as having to fend for themselves. The examples are queuing and calling for action. It is not enough to talk about dignity; dignity must be experienced in the form of a safe elderly life, where you can count on the necessary help, for example for toilet visits before it is too late, or to change a diaper before it can no longer hold, or so that a citizen does not have to be ready to change a stomi bag, at the moment the helper comes in through the door, because she has to leave immediately. But dear Parliament: Dignity is therefore much more than keeping the body in operation; dignity is to create the framework for life to continue to exist for the rest of life. We need to ensure that employees have sufficient time for the presence, care and activities of the elderly and that we also give staff the freedom to use their skills. We need to recognise that economic development must follow demographic trends in the number of elderly people. We need to realise that with an annual growth in public consumption of 0.3%. will lead to a deterioration in the welfare of the elderly and a deterioration in working conditions for older workers. We need to give priority to this problem in the community; we need to take this task seriously. That is why, of course, the SF also supports the proposal that we have tabled together with the Social Democratic Party, the Enhedslisten and the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321184435	There is a brief comment from Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321184440	Thank you. Look, now we've been really far around here. We have among other things. discussed debureaucratisation. There has also been talk on several occasions of this procurement law, which the SF, together with the Social Democrats and Radicals, adopted, and I know that the opposition is very concerned about whether this money from de-bureaucratisation is now going back to the area of the elderly. I'm just a little curious, the 132 million went. kr., which was saved, when S and SF and the Radicals changed the tender law, back to the older area such crown for crown? Or what happened to them?
ParlaMint-DK_20170321184521	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321184522	I think they're in the municipalities. I believe that the amendment made to the Procurement Act at that time had a real purpose, namely that it was precisely to prevent the endings from being difficult to reach together, and the municipalities had to spend an incredible amount of time approving very many companies. So it made a lot of sense, like saying, we're trying to divide the assignments into bigger bites. And some municipalities have done so, and this has unfortunately had the consequence that we have also seen a great many bankruptcies as a result of it, because they have competed on the price, and in some places the price is simply so low that it is not possible to operate sensible care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321184606	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321184609	Thank you. I fully agree that the legislation adopted at the time in 2013 has, therefore, been found to be inappropriate by the Red Government with the support of the Enhedslisten. At that time, the Left also said that it would be a real pity if we were just focusing on price and not quality, and thank God the Minister for the Elderly has now taken the initiative to revise it. But I note that the rapporteur points out that the 132 million. kr., which the former Red Government saved with the Procurement Act, has gone back to the area of the elderly. It is not a question; I just take note of that answer and thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321184647	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321184648	I do not think the rapporteur can conclude, as the rapporteur has just concluded, as I have just said.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321184655	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the SF rapporteur and I give the floor to the Minister for the Elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321184715	Thank you for today's debate. I think that the debate has come up well around the challenges we see in some places in the care of the elderly and on how best to ensure good and dignified care. So I also think that there is good reason for briefly highlighting some of the points that I raised in my introductory speech. Because I can hear that it cannot be repeated enough that the government of course considers that caregivers must receive proper and dignified treatment. We work to ensure that all elderly people receive good and dignified care, because dignified care for the elderly is one of the cornerstones of our welfare society. In the government, we are very aware that demographic developments mean that in the future there will be more older people. We therefore have a major focus on the elderly and the challenges in this area. It is clear both from the government's basis that the government's policy on the elderly, among other things: is based on the five fundamental values of the Elder Commission, but this is also apparent from all the concrete initiatives that have been launched in the area of the elderly in recent years. I can, among other things. mention the dignity policies, the dignity billionaire, the rock map for the residents of nursing homes, the kitchen pool, the dementia action plan and our debureaucratisation initiative. We should also remember not to talk the care of the elderly into a black hole, because care for the elderly works well in many municipalities and in many nursing homes. It is also a fact that, overall under this government, municipalities spend more money in the area of older people than in the past. But this does not mean that we must close our eyes to the challenges of care for the elderly. In conclusion, therefore, I would like to make it clear once again that there is no doubt that we in the government will continue to follow developments in the area of the elderly, so as to ensure in future that elderly people who need help are provided with dignified care where there is respect for the individual's right to self-determination. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321184939	There are a number of brief comments. The first is from Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321184946	Thank you for that, and improve for the Minister, who seems to have suffered a little cold. On the other day I received a message from one of my former colleagues working in a nursing home, and she wrote to me: Karina, we have a challenge in relation to the demented residents who are outgoing but are in an ordinary nursing home. Couldn't you inside the Parliament work to secure some small units for demented residents who are outgoing so they don't go to the nursing homes, for ordinary nursing homes? That is why I thought that I would pass on that message to the Minister and see if the Minister had any thoughts about the outgoing ones, such as the former. is among demented residents in ordinary nursing homes, i.e. whether you can work in some way to ensure good and caring care and proper visitation and get to the right place.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321185047	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321185049	I have no doubt that Mrs Karina Adsbøl brings up a very important point, and it is both important for the other residents who live in the same nursing home, but of course also for the individual demented resident who has an outgoing behavior. I am pleased to see that we have a national dementia action plan, where we are also talking about how to build housing in the future. And there I hope that with dementia-friendly housing, this can be one of the things we get up to, so we know where precisely demented citizens with outgoing behaviour could live.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321185140	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321185142	I take that as a response from the Minister, that is to say that the Minister would like to take part in looking at how we can ensure that outgoing demented ones are searched into the right place. It is both to protect other residents, but also to help the demented and outgoing citizen with the right care, so that it can benefit both the demented citizen and the staff who are sometimes very pressured in the night shifts and where a demented, outgoing citizen may be able to keep an entire nursing home awake.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321185217	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321185218	Yes, there is no doubt about that. I fully agree with the questioner and I think it is very important that we get people to live in the place that is best for themselves. We need to look at the individual, including in the search.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321185233	The next question is Mr. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321185237	Thank you. It is quite true that in most places things are going well; in most places a decent and good care for the elderly is provided. But there are also some places where things are not going well, and there you can't use the statistics, or that others are well, to a great extent. It is usually said of statisticians that it is the type of people who can sit with their buttocks in the stove and head in the freezer and say that they are on average very well but each end has some problems. And in this way there are also some who have some very specific problems where the municipalities fail their task. I know that there has been some debate about the word responsibility in relation to the Minister, and that is why I would like to ask the Minister whether she feels a responsibility to intervene in the places where the municipalities are failing their task.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321185331	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321185332	There is no doubt that I, as Minister for the Elderly, have overall responsibility for the area, and it is also very important for me to have the responsibility that, like myself, I can help create a good framework for the elderly and also set the course. It is clear that when some things happen, I will of course be aware of how things are being dealt with in the municipalities in relation to the sad things we have been able to see, among other things. I noted back in December 2016 in a TV feature about a certain unworthy care that the municipality in question also intervened. And I'm very happy about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321185428	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321185431	But let us imagine the situation in which the municipalities simply accept that this is the state of affairs that is now that it is now the level of service that has been chosen in that municipality... will the Minister go into the path that states that municipal selfgovernment is not perfect and that there must be some who can intervene against the municipalities that are failing their citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20170321185458	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321185500	It is clear that we must keep an eye on whether these things are happening, because the municipality has a responsibility to ensure that the citizens who need help receive the help they need. I respect municipal autonomy, but that does not mean that I am not following it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321185519	The next question is Mrs Susanne Eilersen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321185523	Thank you. And thank you for the Minister's speech. It has been quite a long day, but that is how it is when there are issues that occupy some. I would like to go back a little to the Minister's initial and very fine presentation, because I am quite sure that the Minister also shares the views of the Danish People's Party that we should do a great deal for the elderly. I'm sure she does. The Minister said in his introduction that we must do even better, and the Minister has sometimes said so. Can the Minister come up with a few points where the Minister does not think we are doing well enough today and could do better?
ParlaMint-DK_20170321185559	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321185559-2	I would really like us to have values and attitudes put in as something superior and that we can feel that when one day you go to a nursing home, you or your family can simply come in and look at a possible website and find out exactly what it is that nursing home stands for. I think it is very important that when you choose it, either for the person you care about or you choose it yourself, you can see what it is you can expect if you go there. I think this is important because we have also seen some examples that suddenly afterwards there is something that may not be as one thought and that one was not sure or knew when one moved in. Suddenly you're in that situation when you've moved in, and it's hard to move. It doesn't get any easier when you're old. So it's something with values and attitudes, and it's also one of the reasons why I'm really happy that we've got dignity policies with the help of the Danish People's Party in the financial negotiations back in 2016.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321185712	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321185713	The Danish People's Party is also very pleased that the government voted in favour of the Danish People's Party's proposal on dignity billionaire. I fully agree with the Minister that we need to bring in some values and some opinions. Does the Minister believe that we can raise the level of care for the elderly to the point that we can also look more at values and attitudes, with the economic policy that the government has put forward with the Minister's own political party in the lead, that our welfare should only increase by 0.3 per cent.?
ParlaMint-DK_20170321185747	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321185749	I do not think it is useful to focus only on the one point of the government base, i.e. the 0.3 per cent, because the government base also provides for a number of adjustments, which means that money can be released which can be spent on our core welfare. There is no doubt that the government is giving priority to the elderly. But we also have a belief that we can have a better public sector, and this is not just about money, but also about values, about governance. We believe that we can solve the tasks in the public sector in a better way, where there can be a focus on the needs of the individual citizen. That is why, of course, there must be room for the political priorities, and the government will constantly take stock of the need to add additional resources.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321185845	The next question is Mrs Astrid Krag, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321185849	But the Minister says a great deal about the fact that you will constantly take stock of it and follow it, and the Minister also says that it is she who should create the good framework and set the course. However, the rate has been set in a government base where every year until 2025 there will be a shortage of between 1 billion. kr. and 1.5 billion. kr. in order just to keep the level of care and care that we have for the elderly today. That is why I think Mrs Susanne Eilersen has so far asked the best question when she asked the Minister to answer the main problems. There the Minister replied that it is something with values and attitudes and that you should also be able to read about the nursing homes on a website. I would just like to ask whether the Minister would not like to add a little more to the list of the challenges we are facing, and would also like to raise the veil a little more about what is in the government base, which would allow us to free up these funds that would mean that the municipalities would not have to start cutting down on care for the elderly every year, because economic policy does not follow the increasing number of elderly people. What is it quite specifically that can release such large sums that, after all, must be released to keep up with them? It is billions we are talking about here. Does the Minister not think that there are, after all, more problems in the care of the elderly than that you cannot read well enough about all the nursing homes on the websites?
ParlaMint-DK_20170321190007	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321190008	Well, there is no doubt that the needy elderly need the help they need, even in the future. That is also why I am saying just now that the government will monitor developments in the area of the elderly closely, including the new requirements for the elderly that demographic development entails. However, I would also like to point out that we must be careful to interpret demographic features in such a way that there is a 1:1 relationship between more elderly people and expenditure on the elderly, because more older people cannot be mechanically converted into specific expenditure. In other words, the increase in the number of elderly people will not necessarily require a corresponding increase in the cost of the elderly. Because I'm 65 years old in May, that doesn't mean that the municipality gets increased expenses immediately. So that's my answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321190101	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321190103	At any rate, there was no answer to what it is in the government base that frees the many billions that are needed in order for us to maintain just the level of care and care that we have today in 2025. I will then perhaps put a written question on that, because I would actually like that answer. That's pretty crucial. But will the Minister not respond to the second part of what I asked, namely what are the main challenges in the care of the elderly today? Here the Minister tells Mrs Susanne Eilersen that it is to bring in values and opinions, but I think that there are already many values and opinions out there I should like to say that. Isn't there more things the minister wants to add to that list than values and attitudes, and that it is important to be able to read properly about the nursing homes on the websites?
ParlaMint-DK_20170321190147	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321190147-2	There is no doubt that demographic development is also a major challenge, and we in the government recognise that. It will make new demands on the elderly and the economy associated with it. That is why we will monitor developments in the area of the elderly closely, so that it can also be ensured in future that the elderly are provided with dignified care.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321190211	The next question is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321190216	Thank you. I also have to wish for a better recovery, because that sounds serious indeed. I think it is quite right that things are going very well in most places, but it is often also at the expense of staff who need to achieve more and more, and we also have to listen to that when it comes to the reports we receive. For example, I have. I was listening to the fact that more and more municipalities are going from providing home care in search of time to delivering the desired task only, and in this way it will be possible to push the time for the employee, for example. There is a risk of having to visit a citizen and both dripping eyes and changing a full colossomiposis in five minutes, which I think the Minister for the Elderly agrees with me simply cannot be done unless you have to steal the time from elsewhere. So my question to the Minister is whether, when we talk about dignity, the Minister also thinks that the search time must necessarily be the timeframe to which citizens are entitled.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321190323	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321190325	I think it is very important to make it clear that our elderly people, who need help, need the help they need. It is important that they get it, and I think we should make sure that they do. It is a task that each municipality must take care to get in place, and I thank God that in most places the meeting between a person who needs help and a person who provides help is going well. I'm incredibly happy about that. In the vast majority of cases, it works well.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321190405	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321190407	I also prefer common sense, but nevertheless I am listening to how more and more people experience these visits, which last five minutes, and then you have to get out the door again. Well, you can barely do anything but get your clothes and shoes off, say hello and walk away again. Does the Minister for the Elderly not agree with me that it is simply not possible to make a visit to care for the elderly in five minutes?
ParlaMint-DK_20170321190427	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321190429	I agree with the questioner that staff should have enough time to be able to help the individual citizen with what they need, but I am also pleased that over the last two years a number of initiatives have been set in motion which help to raise the care of the elderly and to strengthen the dignity of the elderly. I am, for example. I am very pleased with the policies of dignity and dignity, and with regard to the policies of dignity, this means that, if the individual citizens of the individual municipalities experience something that they do not think is appropriate, then they can ask the local politicians how these dignity policies are being carried out in their municipality.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321190513	Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321190522	Thank you. There has been a lot of debate today on this issue of documentation requirements and the problems associated with it. There I have seen that KORA • KORA has been mentioned earlier today • has made a report on 30 November 2016, which states that close to all employees today work with administrative tasks, that is to say close to all employees, and then they also note that fewer employees carry out social care, such as: to drink a cup of coffee with the older one. So I want to hear from the Minister whether the Minister will not help inspire new management principles that are based more on trust and technical cooperation rather than documentation and control.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321190613	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321190615	There is no doubt that this is in line with some of the things I also sympathise with. We must focus on the core task, which is the individual citizen and resident, and not keep our eyes on the computer and documentation all the time. That is also why I have set up the working group which will help to find the state, municipal or local requirements that could have arisen, and we must have looked at that. I think it is really important that we also look at management, and in particular that we have confidence in our employees, because I have no doubt that we can have that in the vast majority of cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321190701	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321190703	I am delighted, and I would just like to point out that this is, of course, very much about the management principles that you have, both politically and in a decentralised manner in the municipalities. So it could be very good if we also focus on the management style that you work with if we could try to get some new eyes on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321190731	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321190733	I fully agree with the questioner on this, and I would also like to say that I am pleased that a management commission has been set up with the Minister for Innovation, and I can inform him that, among other things. also sits with a nursing home manager from Vejle.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321190750	The next brief remark is from Mrs Stine Brix of the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321190755	Thank you. I would like to add a challenge to the short list of challenges in the care of the elderly, which we have discussed with the Minister, because I think there is a fundamental problem in the fact that there are a great many elderly people who need home care but who are not being searched for at all by the municipality. I mean, we've seen a drastic drop in the proportion of elderly people who get home care. I myself mentioned an example, and it is just about one in a lot of people who are experiencing a situation where getting a little more help could make you stay at home. So does the Minister agree that we have a challenge in that there are a great many elderly people who really need practical help, for example, but who are not being searched for by the municipality at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20170321190846	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321190848	It is, of course, the case that older people need the help they need and that it is also the responsibility of the municipalities to offer that help. And it is true what the questioner says about a significant drop in home help recipients from 2010 to 2012 and that in recent years we have seen a little less elderly people receiving home help while maintaining the level of aid to the individual. So the development should then be seen in the light of the fact that in recent years the municipalities have been working more and more on rehabilitation and since 2015 have been committed to offering rehabilitation courses to the elderly, which can improve their ability to function. But I would agree with the questioner that, of course, the elderly who need help must also have it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321190943	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321190946	It is unclear to me whether the Minister thinks this is the case today. So, do the elderly who need help get that help today? We have seen, as the Minister himself says, a very marked fall and that in only six years the number of elderly people receiving help has fallen dramatically; if we look at the group over 65, we see that the proportion of those receiving help has fallen by 33 per cent, and we cannot explain this by saying that they have suddenly become much more fresher in only 6 years. So this is probably due to the fact that during that period the municipalities have had a very, very tight economy and have felt compelled to be very strict with whom they grant home help. So my question to the Minister is: does the Minister believe that it is the case today that the elderly who need help actually receive it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170321191033	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321191035	I expect the elderly, who need help, to receive it too. I certainly expect them to. However, we have to say that some measures have been taken and that it is precisely rehabilitation that has led to more elderly people doing well at home. There is no doubt in my mind that being self-sufficient means a great deal, and it is about dignity and, of course, also about the quality of life for the individual. But the municipalities must of course offer the help they need.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321191113	Thank you, Minister. There are no more who have felt challenged to short remarks. So thank you for today. And the last person who has asked to speak is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Jeppe Jakobsen from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321191130	Thank you. I actually feel called to answer the question that Mr. Finn Sørensen asked me through Mrs Astrid Krag, and the question that Mrs Lotte Rod asked me from the platform instead of from the Chamber, where I had had the opportunity to answer it, but since the Members of Parliament concerned have left the Chamber, it seems most reasonable to start a debate with them. I can also see from the amount of legal rapporteurs in the Chamber that there are some who would like to move forward in the programme. So I am not going to delay further, but simply thank you for the debate, as I can see and welcome the fact that, after all, the Folketing has a common goal of good care for the elderly, and that what is really the challenge is which way we should choose, and that is why I call on all of us to keep the goal in mind. Perhaps we can then agree to find the path that we can take together so that we reach our goal of ensuring a safe old age for the Danes. Thank you for the floor and thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321191234	Thank you, sir. Jeppe Jakobsen. No one else has asked for the floor, so the negotiations have ended. The vote on the proposals for adoption submitted will take place only on Thursday 23 March 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321191304	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321191343	Thank you. After all, we have a motion for a resolution which I am commenting on now, and when I have the floor again, I will comment on the legislative proposal. The motion for a resolution will ensure that all religious preachers are covered by Article 70 of the Code of Procedure, which excludes clergymen in the church and recognized religions from being jury and magistrates. As the authors are aware, I tabled a legislative proposal last week which, among other things, was adopted by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. contains proposals for a number of amendments to the rules of the Code of Civil Procedure on lay judges. The draft law proposes this, which we will have plenty of opportunity to talk about a little later, among other things. in certain respects to extend the circle of persons which is currently excluded from being lay judges. This is true of so - called clergymen. Thus, the government proposes to extend the circle of persons excluded from being laity judges to include clergymen in all religions, whether recognised, approved or not. In other words, it means that clergymen will be excluded from being laity judges, no matter what religion they belong to. As I read the motion for a resolution and its comments, there is substantive agreement with the draft law which the government has just tabled, and therefore there does not seem to be any immediate basis for further consideration of the motion for a resolution here in the Danish Parliament. These should be my comments on the motion for a resolution and then I will comment on the legislative proposal when I come back.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321191537	In order for everyone to be aware of the progress made, it is the case that the Minister for Justice has spoken on the motion for a resolution now and that, as usual, he will be given the floor at the end of the legislative proposal. Peter Kofod Poulsen from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321191623	Thank you. And thank you to the Minister for commenting on our motion for a resolution. In fact, I would just like to use this short round of questions we have to sign up to the government, because our resolution has been taken seriously and has also tabled a legislative proposal which, as the Minister himself said, is perfectly in keeping with what is the intention behind the resolution. So I'm just supposed to sign for that. I think it is quite good that the government takes the problem we have raised seriously, so thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321191651	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321191653	I look forward to it being implemented.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321191655	The questioner. That's it? Then we say thank you to the Minister in this round. The first rapporteur is Mrs Trine Bramsen from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321191709	After all, this is a rather comprehensive legislative proposal that we are dealing with here and, apart from the legislative proposal, we are also dealing with the resolution. First of all, a few comments on the draft law, namely a small wish that we split it up when it is so extensive, so that we can get around in every corner and corner within speaking time. I also believe that a request from the committee has been sent to the Ministry for that part, because unfortunately this is not the first time we have had such extensive legal material that we have had to deal with. But it is also quite an important proposal, and it is, of course, because it is absolutely essential in a society governed by the rule of law that we have a modern legal system that is trusted and supported by the people. That is why we must ensure flexible procedures, high credibility and that laymen also reflect the people. And that is basically the content of the comprehensive proposal that we are discussing here. Firstly, I would like to highlight a socialist priority, namely that the age limit for lay judges should be raised from 70 to 75 years. This has long been a wish on our part and something that we actually urged the Minister to act on some time ago with a majority in the Folketing. So, for following suit with regard to the motion for a resolution on imams, I would also like to thank you for that being part of the proposal here. Another important element is this very issue of ensuring religious independence in the courtrooms. We in the Social Democratic Party believe that it is essential that there is no doubt about the independence of the court, and therefore there should be no religious ministers in the courtroom, whether the religious ministers come from recognized religions or unrecognized religions. And there is nothing new in the fact that religious preachers cannot act as judges. If you look at Danish legal history, it is several hundred years since it was decided that priests should not judge in court. That is why we think it is absolutely right that the rules applicable to priests should also apply to all other religious ministers. So there is also clear support for the motion for a resolution, which we are working together with the draft law. Thirdly, the draft law also involves amendments to the law on this Brussels Regulation, including the implementation of the Hague Convention provisions on jurisdictional arrangements. This gives the government the power to accede to the jurisdiction agreement, which is, of course, about companies in the European Union involved in international legal transactions in order to ensure that their jurisdiction agreements are respected and that a judgment given by that court is recognised internationally. We can also support that part. Then there are a whole series of proposals for clarification of the Code of Procedure. It acts among other things. on the possibility of being able to appoint further judges of the Court of Justice in the case where a judge of the Court of Justice acts as chairman of a commission of inquiry. It is possible to use telecommunications in connection with the handling of auction cases by the court; it is possible for the court to impose on a debtor claims which are legally granted the right of withdrawal on immovable property or the like. And there is a clarification of the rules on access to interpretation in legal proceedings so that the law on justice is brought into line with the European Convention on Human Rights in this area. Then there are also a number of minor and practical changes that I will not go into in detail but which, overall, make good sense in ensuring a good and effective and up-to-date law on justice. With these words, we in the Social Democratic Party can support the bill here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321192127	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321192130	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. I just have one question which goes on the age limit for the judges, which is now being pushed from 70 years to 75 years as a result of the bill. I think that is a very good thing myself, but I have also noted that there are a few consultation answers where you ask, and I fully agree with that why the age limit is not just set free. As long as you're fit and able to take on this job, shouldn't you be allowed to do it? What is the rapporteur's position on this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20170321192201	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321192203	I have also read and taken note of those answers. I think it makes sense to set the age limit initially up to 75 years, but we are very willing to discuss further whether it should either be increased or removed altogether, in relation to the fact that there should then be an assessment of the individual judge. Because we need to recognise that people are living longer, they are fresh and bodied for a long time, and if you can contribute to our courtrooms, then it makes sense that you can act as a judge. As I said at the outset, our community of law and our legal system must also reflect the people that is exactly what the lay judges are for. So we are happy to discuss this further. But we really think it makes sense to start by raising the age limit to 75 years.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321192249	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321192251	This is great, so I hope we can talk to the Social Democrats about pushing the border even further up at a later date or getting it removed altogether. Another aspect of the proposal in relation to jurors is that it is here with the jurors' ethnicity that there must be some with minority backgrounds. I find it strange that in the year 2017 we are still discussing whether people should come from some minority or whether they should have lived in Denmark for, I don't know how many generations. I think it's a strange discussion to take. Does the rapporteur agree with this, in other words, that it is a strange balance to be struck in such a proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20170321192323	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321192325	Well, I think we read it a little differently. I read it as ensuring that the lay judges we have reflect the general public. That is also why we are moving on to the age limit, and I think that is quite reasonable. After all, it is to ensure that there is support from all over society for our legal system. In relation to the age limit, I would like to have a good discussion on whether we should raise the additional amount in the first place here whether we should set it up to 78 years or 80 years if that would make sense. I would like to discuss whether we should make an amendment on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321192358	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321192402	Thank you. And thank you for your speech. My question is actually more clear, because among other things. The Minister for Justice has been out and maybe muddled the public debate a little, I think. Of course, I would also like to ask the Minister when he talks about the bill; everything else would not be fair. But he has been out saying something about the role of these imams, which I think has muddled the debate a little. At any rate, I have heard it as if it were the preaching role that was a problem, and it is not in relation to priests; there is the confidentiality of soul grief. Does the rapporteur not agree with that and that is why it also makes sense in connection with imams and unrecognized religions that it might be scientology, or what it might be to say that it is not the question of service but the question of confidentiality that makes it comparable to a number of other subjects today?
ParlaMint-DK_20170321192457	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321192459	The duty of silence is one argument for not having religious ministers in the courtroom. But if we look at the legal history and look back hundreds of years, we will see that the original argument for taking the priests out of the courtroom was that one should not just repent because one had transgressed against God's will, but because one sincerely felt a guilt for what one had done. I know that there are some who claim confidentiality as the only argument, but if you look at the legal history, you will see that it was in fact the attempt to separate church and state and that you tried to put it on the individual citizen to be responsible and not to leave the issue of guilt as a question of God's forgiveness.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321192549	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321192551	Thank you. But today there are a number of other functions you can have in a society where it simply will not make sense to be a judge because there are some things that are being muddy together. In any case, I think that we can get the view in the public debate that we should be a neutral person, and that does not make any sense either in relation to the fact that we, as political parties, appoint judges. So I guess it's not a question of being neutral in relation to something, that is, in relation to religion or political beliefs. I guess that's not what this is about. Well, one must also be a Christian or Muslim person in order to be a judge. I therefore believe that I am more interested in hearing the rapporteur's view of why it is that we should not be a judge, both in the case of recognised and unrecognized religions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321192655	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321192657	But in the socialist optics, it is because as a religious minister one has a special religious status, it has a special role. Otherwise, religion is usually a private matter, but when one is a religious minister, one can also be viewed as such. And that is what we in the Social Democratic Party do not think should be part of the legal culture in Denmark, that is, that there can be doubts about whether you speak God's Word, whether you punish on the basis of the will of any God or anything else you believe in; you have to do it according to harsh law.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321192737	I would like to thank the Social Democrats' rapporteur, and we shall now turn to Mr Beazley's report. Preben Bang Henriksen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321192746	Thank you. This proposal includes many elements, and I shall try to run them through quickly as well as time allows. One element is that it must be possible with an extra judge. Of course, we have no comment whatsoever on that. It's gonna take enough time to get cases brought to court today. Another element is the exclusion of imams as judges, and in this respect I can say that we are of course in the position today that the clergy of the people's church are excluded from being judges. And what is happening here is that this group of people, who are excluded from being judges, is extended to clergymen from all religions, which means whether they are recognized or not. So to the extent that one wants priests not to be judges, as it is today, it must be natural that it applies to all religions, whatever the commanders of those communities are now called. An additional element is that the age of the judge is increased, in practice for five years, so that one can now be a judge unless one reaches the age of 75 in the four-year period to which the selection relates. We certainly have no comment on that either. It follows a lot of the trend of the time. I believe that the implementation of the Convention on Jurisdiction and the Enforcement of Judgments could be made possible for the rest of the evening if we can find out what it is all about. In short, however, it is the situation that two companies have an agreement with each other that any dispute must be settled somewhere on the globe, either where one lives or where the other lives, or perhaps in New York or Buenos Aires, or where do I know? It's a deal, and it's valid. It is not valid if it is concluded with a consumer, but it is valid if it is concluded between two companies. What we are stating here is that the set of rules applicable to such jurisdiction agreements, in what is called the Hague Convention and which was approved by the Council in 2014, will apply in Denmark. Qua our legal reservation is not valid in Denmark, but it will be if we join it, and it recommends the Left that we do. It may be important for undertakings to have the assurance that the jurisdiction agreements concluded are also respected in the countries which have acceded to the Convention. And so it applies both when the jurisdiction is Denmark, and when it is called Italy for example. Another element is that telecommunications is allowed in connection with the processing of foreclosure proceedings in the court. Well, that also follows the digitalisation that we have in other respects in the courts. What surprises me is that telecommunications have not been allowed on the same occasion in connection with the auction itself, that is to say, bidding. We see, at least in many other situations of action, that this is allowed, but for some reason I cannot think of or find in the proposal, it is therefore felt that this should not be possible in the context of the auction, but probably in the context of the preparation of the auction. It just tells us that there are a number of rules about foreclosures that we are about to look at, and so is the next element. That is the element that states that if you owe money in property tax or other public taxes and do not show up for a hospitality store, then the bailiff can make a deposit or pledge, whatever it is called, at the bailiff's office without your presence. Let me just say a few words about the two proposals, because they deal with the situation where a property has been foreclosed. And it has to be said that the system of foreclosures that we have today is a system in which the costs are worked up and where it is actually impossible for the debtor to get out of the debt in which he is sitting. Why? But because when the person arrives in arrears, interest starts to run; then there comes something called a doctor's shop in court; then there comes a guidance meeting; then there may be a preparatory hearing; then there comes one auction and maybe even another auction. And there are costs on the principal or on the culprit all the time, so once you've got your head stuck in that mill, it's damn hard to get out of it. I have the impression that there are a number of rules here that can be cleaned up, and I would urge the Ministry of Justice to take a closer look at that. However, the two elements that lie here, i.e. telecommunications in foreclosure preparations and pledges at the office, can of course be fully supported. Then there's interpretation in court cases. Rule of Article 149 of the Code of Procedure 1, brought into line with the European Convention on Human Rights. You can't object to that. We then jump to a different subject: if you are employed by the Consumer Ombudsman and you want to have the right to appear before the Court of Justice, then you can get it, even if you have not been in a lawyer's office. This is a little different round, I have to tell you. There are further restrictions: when a judge announces the free process and it is not in so many cases even, but in some cases it is the judge who gives the free process, and not the Civil Justice Directorate there are no longer any restrictions. If you're mad at the judge's decision, you can love it. We can agree to that too. Then there will be some very specific rules on amending the design law. I shall spare both the Folketing and myself to examine this further. There are rules on territorial validity, where one obviously wants to correct • as far as I can read it • a lapsus in another legislation. Finally, there are provisions for digital communication in the context of some procedural law. Overall, it is a mixed country trade, but it cleans up a lot of things, and the Left, by its very nature, can fully endorse the proposal here. And those were my comments.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321193352	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321193356	I am very grateful to the rapporteur for having been able to address so many of the points in the draft law, and I should just like to ask the rapporteur whether he thinks it is within the dial, if I may say so, that so many different things are being put together in a single legislative proposal, or is this something that should be sought in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20170321193417	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321193419	I have to say quite frankly that I have no objection to putting various things together in a single proposal, but I must say that when one proposal has provisions on the possibility for the consumer Ombudsman's employees to have the right to sit before the courts together with jurisdictional agreements, I think it is actually too different and I think that another good time should be divided into different legislative proposals. It will also make the debate here in the Folketing somewhat easier and perhaps even more comprehensive.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321193451	Thank you, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rune Lund from Enhedslisten. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321193510	After all, this is a legislative proposal with a large number of proposals, a mixed country trade with a large number of things that will make matters more flexible and improve the system. It can also be seen from the wide range of positive consultation responses that there are a great many improvements, and we are in favour of them. Then there are two things that I would like to highlight and which are also the ones that have been the most debated today. The first is to raise the age limit for lay judges to 75 years. It supports the Enhedslisten. At the same time, we are aware, and I think we should all be aware of this here too, that it is not necessarily unproblematic. It should be understood in this way that the people who are convicted in the judicial system are primarily young people, and when we raise the age limit, we can see a development where, even more than today, it will be older people who will sit and judge these young people. This may give rise to a problem in relation to the sense of justice, and it may give the people who are convicted, the perception of how reasonable or unreasonable it may be that it is age that determines that they are judged in the specific cases. So there is some sort of bias, for example. must be aware of there. But that does not change the fact that it would not make sense for us to keep the current 70-year limit, because we are all getting older, and you can therefore be fresh when you are over 70 years of age, so it would seem strange to have that 70-year limit. So we support raising it to 75 years. It is possible that it should be raised further; it is not the case that we say that we will not discuss it, because we can do that, but I think it is important that we remember in this context at least that there can therefore be some disadvantages in relation to the recruitment that is taking place among the lay judges today, so that there can be a further distortion, and that is something that we need to focus on, while, of course, we do not have to commit age discrimination. Then there is the second part of the bill, which is that the circle of persons excluded from being a lay judge should be extended to include clergymen in all religions, regardless of whether they are recognised, approved or not approved. Our position in principle on the question is, in fact, that we do not care what kind of religion people have, what religious religion they come from when they are to be laity judges, we do not really care if people are active in the local handball club, and we also do not care which political party the lay judges might come from when they sit in the courtroom and judge. So basically, we do not really think there should be a restriction, so for example. clergymen such as religious persons should not be able to participate and be laity judges. There is, of course, the problem of clergymen in the people's church being civil servants, so there is a conflict in that they are some people who are, as such, employed by the executive and who can then have a problematic double role, if at the same time they perform a function of the judiciary. However, this is another issue which, as such, has nothing to do with a religious affiliation or a religious function, but it is an issue which has to do with the fact that we are operating in the tripartite of power. So what is to be done when there is a proposal that involves parallelism, so as to create equal conditions for all clergymen in all religions? It would then argue that we support the proposal. Conversely, it is a parallelism which means that the group of clergy is being expanded, and it is actually a wrong direction in terms of extending the number of clergymen who cannot then be laity judges when we basically think it is silly and silly that, just because you are a clergyman, you cannot be a lay judge today. So we are actually going to have our position to abstain on that part of the legislative proposal, and we really want that part to be separated so that we can abstain on that part. Those are my comments on the proposal as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321193949	Thank you, sir. Rune Lund. There are no brief comments. We shall now proceed to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Leif Mikkelsen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321194002	Thank you for that, President. Now, after all, I have reached an age in which I am usually in favour of any increase in the age limit in all kinds of circumstances, so now it is an increase or a complete removal of it. It is actually a discrimination against adult people, one might say. So we support that part of the proposal, also for other reasons. But what has been particularly bright has been the issue of equality for priests and clergymen from other religions. It is, of course, quite natural and right that this bill includes equality. The discussion has now been raised, most recently by Enhedslisten, whether one should actually be allowed to be a lay judge or not. Here it is, after all, an equality that goes on to follow the line that has been applied to priests so far, i.e. that one cannot be a lay judge. We have discussed this with us, and we have ended up saying that we support the legislative proposal in its entirety and therefore also that element. So I can actually be as brief as possible and say that we have been particularly sensitive to the age limit and the question of the equality that exists and that we think is reasonable. That is why we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321194123	Thank you, sir. Leif Mikkelsen. There are no brief comments. The next is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321194135	Thank you. I shall start by saying, as some of the other rapporteurs have also said, that by far, by far, most of the elements of this bill we support in the alternative. Then there are the two famous elements to which everyone else has also referred and which I would also like to touch on. The first is in relation to the age limit. We support the change from 70 to 75 years. In principle, we would also have supported a change which meant that there was no upper age limit, as the Elders case has actually proposed in their hearing answer, because everything else will be equal discrimination against older people when we start to age. It can be said that many older people today are quite fresh, both when they are 75 and when they are 80 years old for that matter. But it's just too short to touch it. We support this and we are not so concerned about the objections that have been raised against the age limit. Then there is the second thing about excluding religious ministers from being judges and jurors. This is going to be a very fundamental discussion, and that is why it will also be the kind of speech in principle that I will give, and I hope that there will be an understanding of that and that it will be understood in that spirit. Because we cannot support the part of the bill that is about religious ministers not being judges and jurors. And it is not because we do not want to equate the religious preachers in our society, for we do so, as has actually been said. However, according to the comments to this bill, the reason why one wants to equate the clergy of the people's church with other religious ministers is that one would like to ensure that there can be no doubt as to whether the decisions taken by the courts are influenced by, among other things. religious beliefs. The only problem is that the reason why priests are excluded from being judges and jurors today is that they are civil servants in the state. That is why that provision has been introduced. It is because there is a legal link between the church and the state and that the priests can actually get into a squeeze in that way because they represent the church, and they may also have got some confidential information with which they will then be in a position if it turns out that they are called as judges or jury in a matter with a person they know from their ecclesiastical activities. So you actually protect both the priest, but also the courts, by clergymen not being judges or jurors. So the fact that this is about their religious beliefs is not true. It is a false premise on which this element of the draft law is based. It is simply a false premise. That is why we find this problematic. Moreover, it is also interesting to note in the bill that all publishers should be excluded from being judges and jury, regardless of whether a religion is recognized, approved or not approved. There is, in fact, a contradiction here. Because if you, as a religion, seek the approval of the state and the state that we will not accept you as a religion, how can the state then go in and say that by the way, we would also like to decide whether you can be a judge or a jury? So, how can one not approve a religion and at the same time decide that the members of that religion should not be judges or jurors? There is some fundamental contradiction, but also rather practical one, which I do not see how to resolve in practice. So we're actually completely in line with Enhedslisten, in terms of how to solve this problem. We do not think it is a problem to belong to a religious congregation or to be a religious preacher if you are to be a judge or a jury in our courts. And why don't we? Because it is another form of diversity that is represented when people have different religious beliefs. After all, we are now recruiting from the political parties. After all, we also have our political views. I myself have been a judge in the old days in Copenhagen City Court, and typically you could ask the others: Which political party do you come from? So it's a different kind of diversity. It's a different kind of representation. What kind of religious congregation or conviction you belong to, or whether you are a religious minister, is just another form of diversity. Why must there not be room for this kind of diversity in our courts when there is room for political action? That will be a question of principle. In fact, I would even use the argument that many of the existential ethical premises, considerations, foundations that lie in the various religious congregations we have can actually be an advantage in a situation in which one has to judge in a court of law. That is why we actually think everyone should be allowed to do so. If the clergy of the church were to be allowed to do so, it would require a change in the constitution, so there we are a little bit into something that is out on the long drive. However, I do believe that our current church minister has at some point proposed that the rules be changed in relation to the salaries of the priests, so that the salaries of the priests are taken from the church tax, and that that part of the state subsidy for the church, which then comes from the treasury, that is, from the taxpayers' tax money, goes primarily to buildings and the maintenance of our churches, the restoration of churches, church buildings, etc. It could be a way of solving it, so that the salary that the priests receive does not leave the treasury. It's just a suggestion. However, unfortunately, in line with the Enhedslisten, we cannot vote in favour of the bill as it stands right now. But we would like this element to be taken out, because then we could vote in favour of the bill. I cannot say now whether we will vote yellow or against it if it is not taken out, but there must be a strong call on my part at least to reconsider whether or not this particular part of the bill should be taken out.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321194750	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first one is from Mrs. Trine Bramssen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321194754	I would like to ask the alternative what has happened since 5 January, when the alternative rapporteur said very clearly to the Dagbladet Information, that she did not think that imams could be judges. It was a very clear statement and even a support to change the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321194811	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321194812	It has happened quite specifically that I have become wiser. And what I have learned is what is the basis for excluding the clergy of the church from being judges and jury. I thought it was because of their religious beliefs, that is, that there was an element of religious conviction in their function, and that that is why they could not be judges and jury. So I'm just getting smarter about why it is. And that's why I've changed my mind.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321194833	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321194834	Well, that's exactly the original argument. If you go back to the history of the court and look at why it changed from priests sitting in the courtrooms and then that they could no longer do so, you will see that it was precisely because of the argument that you should be judged not because of God, but because of what you had done, and because you yourself, as a single individual, had to repent and not apologize to God.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321194902	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321194903	Yes, but we must look at the premise on which the legislation is based today, that is, the paragraph that exists. And it is based on the problem that the priests are government officials and that is why they must not be judges and jury. That is why, and that is actually what the legislation says today. That is also what the experts are saying, among other things. in this article in Kristeligt Dagblad from January 6, 2017. So that's what I'm referring to.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321194929	Sir. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321194932	I took note of the fact that the rapporteur said at one point that some religions were rejected when they were seeking approval. I haven't heard anything about that. What kind of religions are they? Is there an example of some who have applied for approval but have been refused?
ParlaMint-DK_20170321194950	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321194952	That's not what I said. What I said was that in the case that a religion applies for approval and does not receive it from the state, it becomes a fundamental problem that the state will be able to go in at the same time and say: You must not be a judge or jury; we have rejected your application, so we have not recognised your religion. And by the way, you can't be a judge or a jury either. That is what I am saying, in other words, that there is a problem of principle in the possible situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321195020	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321195021	That is very theoretical, because no one has applied and has been rejected or refused. Besides, there are a number of religions that deliberately choose not to be approved. The Grimhøjmosque has deliberately said: we will not be approved, because then we and our deeds will be watched. So it is a deliberate action on their part. They won't allow themselves to be approved.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321195044	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321195045	I fully acknowledge that this problem exists, in other words that there are some people who deliberately do not want to be approved because they want to stay out of the public eye. It is the case today that it is the municipal councils that are still setting aside who should be judges or jurors, so it is not just the case that you look up the telephone book and find a random person. After all, the local authorities are aware of their mandate. So I'm not so worried that this situation should arise.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321195109	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Zenia Stampe from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321195120	Thank you. I will also stick to the two proposals that have led to the most debate and concentrate on them, namely the proposal to increase the age limit and the proposal to exclude clergymen from being laity judges. First of all, in relation to the age limit, I would like to say that we can agree with that. I also think that we could agree to a higher age limit or no age limit if we could then look at what the possibilities are of constantly adjusting if we find that this is necessary. And it really doesn't have anything to do with age. It may also be that if there are people who are very ill, or if other things do, they may not actually have the opportunity to carry out this work in a safe manner, so to speak, to sort people out. Now there is no preliminary screening, but it may be that a judge has the opportunity to say after a case: there was something here. I don't know the rules, but it could be that we could dive into them a little, because if you get reassured that you can stop any criminals who are no longer able to carry out this deed in a reassuring way, then I don't see that there should be a problem at a higher age either. Then I would say to the religious preachers that we support the equality of religious preachers, even though it is true that what has been said up here is that priests are not excluded because of the fear that they should be bound by religious beliefs, but because of their employment relationship in the state and then this argument about confidentiality. That is why we are creating a parallelism in an area where one can say that the basis is in fact another. But what is crucial to me is that there is a concern among the people that there could be clergymen and have a different agenda, that is to say, be guided by religion and faith instead of the law. I think it is a pity that there is this concern, because I actually believe that when you sit in a courtroom as a lay judge, you recognize the secular law and the secular justice system. Then you can't, like mr. Martin Henriksen has been out to say, practice Sharia in the courtroom. You can't do that. There is recognition of the secular justice system. That is why I personally do not share that concern, and I think it is a pity that in this area, but also in other areas, one can see that one is creeping in, what should we say is religious fright is perhaps too violent a concept, and religious scepticism is too mild, but a concern about what religion wants us now. If we compare it to years ago, it may be linked to the fact that there is greater diversity. We are not all Catholics in the same way. Some are Christians, some are atheists, some are from other religions. Perhaps that is what is causing an increase in scepticism or concern, or what other words might be used. I think that is a pity, and that is something that I am working on at other levels. But since there is that concern and there will be people sitting in the courtroom afraid that it is now the Bible or the Qur'an that directs that laity judge, I recognize the need to have that rule and to put different religious communities on an equal footing. But the last thing I would like to say about that is that I regret that it has not been sent to a hearing. It is therefore an incredibly important tool for us, as an opposition, to be able to assess these draft legislations on the basis of consultation answers, because it is not just about fundamental positions. It's also about how this is to be implemented in practice. There I would have been a little curious to find out how those who actually make these lists, those who have to do with the lay judges, actually imagine that this should happen in practice. So, how do you find out if a person acts as a prayer leader in a community of faith that is not recognized? How do you actually manage it? What are some of the problems involved? I think we lack answers to that because we have not had a hearing response in this area. So I am surprised that the government and proposers of the motion for a resolution did not have the patience to take the extra 14 days or 1 month or what it needed to get those answers. For a majority there is, of course, and that is not the month that makes the difference, but it might have made us a little more wiser on how we should put this wording or legislation into practice. There may be something that we do not realise at all that should have been taken into account. We don't know, and hopefully we'll find out. Then it could end up in the infinite pile of proposals that are being put together in a bill in this area. I would just like to agree with what others have said, namely that this confusion of things that have nothing to do with each other at all is not very good for the debate in this Chamber. It is impossible to relate to everything. I also think it must be a principle that the things you collect are things that have something to do with each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321195657	Thank you to Mrs Zenia Stampe. There are no brief comments, so we will turn to the next rapporteur, and that is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321195719	I would like to thank Mr Seligman. Preben Bang Henriksen from the Left, the Danish Liberal Party, which I think went through the bill very well and thoroughly. We have also been able to listen to the various speakers from up here that there has not been an equal focus on all parts, so thank you for that. I would therefore just like to deal with some of the points which are of particular concern to us. One is this about age. There is also often a discussion about this, for example. When we discuss driving licences and all sorts of things. I think we all know some people who are super fresh when they are 90 years of age and some whose health screechs a little. It is very difficult to say anything in general about how people feel when they get there. From the SF's point of view, it is age-discriminatory across the board to have such a maximum age. Then we have read the consultation answers from both West and East Landsret and various other consultation answers, which say that there is a practical reason to have this maximum age and that it may not be possible to assess whether anyone can be a lay judge in a proper way before the matter has gone down and then you have to let the matter go over. Now I'm not a lawyer or a lawyer, like... Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen is, but shouldn't you have a general screening of whether people were fit so to speak to have this job? There may also be some people who cannot handle this job properly, even if they are 40 years old, and some 90 years of age who can handle it properly. I do not understand, and I am going to ask the Minister some questions. Of course, this working group has been sitting with it, but it's still a little mystery to me. So we support raising the limit to 75 years. We really wanted to remove it and then somehow have screening over in general to see if people could handle this job. We also support the wish of the Lawyers' Council and the Institute for Human Rights that there should be a certification scheme for interpreting assistance. I know some people who are interpreters. They are not certified and they are very clever, but not all are, and it is simply a principle of legal certainty that very precise interpretation is required, because even the smallest inaccuracies can have an impact on the case and on the outcome of the case and on what the accused says in one way or another. So it is only fair that there should be a certification system. I also think that the rest of us would like very precise and correct interpretations to be made if we were in a country where we did not speak the language or where we could not communicate in, for example, a country where we did not speak the language. English. So it's pretty important to us. Then I had a little chat with my colleague from DF, Peter Kofod Poulsen, that it could be included in the costs you would have to bear if you lost the case or were found guilty. It's fine for us. Then there's the stuff that's filled the most today. There is also sometimes a motion for a resolution or a legislative proposal that is being promoted, and then it says: we do not want imams. And then the comments say that it applies to all the clergy, because you also have to get it through. Sometimes you can figure out what the purpose of certain debates is. But at any rate, we also support the idea of putting the clergy and other clergymen of the people in the religions on an equal footing. I can fully follow that I think it was my colleague from the Alternative, Carolina Magdalene Maiers,'s objection: how to find out in practical terms whether an unrecognized religion has a preacher or a clergyman and exclude them. In any case, I think that could be both very difficult and legally possible right on the border. But my basic view is also that religion and secularism must be separated, and that is why we do not have a problem in reconciling it, both for the sake of the confidentiality of priests and also imams, which is increasingly topical, but also for the sake of separating things. I think we need to discuss in committee, and also with the Minister, how to deal with it in practical terms, when it is precisely not recognised religions that are involved. With those comments we therefore support the proposal, but we think there are some areas that need to be clarified and discussed further.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321200245	Thank you to the SF rapporteur for today's work. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321200255	Thank you. There must be confidence in the judiciary. In Denmark it is the case that ordinary people participate as jurors and judges in criminal proceedings, and this is a good Danish tradition. But it is important that we ensure that those who contest this type of job are fit for work. The selection of lay judges shall support the general confidence in the judicial system. That is why it is also a number of important changes to, among others. The law of procedure, which we are dealing with first in this Chamber today, including a change of the word clergyman to priest in the Code of Procedure, which will ensure that among other things. Imams and other preachers are excluded from being laity judges. It has been a problem that the circle of people that we call clergymen has covered virtually all the non-dangerous priests of the church, while religious preachers from environments that hate Denmark could, however, well become judges and jurors. It has been illogical and quite inappropriate. The word priest includes not only preachers from the church but also imams, rabbis, and other religious preachers. The bill thus excludes clergymen from being laity judges, regardless of whether their religions are recognized, approved or not approved. In addition, we change the rules so that an ordinary agent on a board can be a lay judge. Until now, they have not been able to be jurors and judges in order to avoid a confusion of executive and judicial power. We must safeguard and maintain this separation, but it is only sensible to exclude employees who are supposed to have such contact with a minister that it can cast doubt on the independence of the courts. Finally, we are raising the age limit for lay judges from 70 to 75 years. That makes sense, because a 72-year-old today is not what a 72-year-old was in the old days. We live longer and there are many of those who are excluded who can still contribute to society as judges or jury. The Conservative People's Party supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321200522	Thank you, sir. Naser Khader. There are no brief comments. We shall now move on to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr Beyer de Ryke. Peter Kofod Poulsen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321200540	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteurs for the comments on our motion for a resolution. Common to the two proposals that we are now working together on, the draft law and the resolution, is that they make up for the difference that has existed in connection with the opportunity for religious ministers to become judges. Paragraph 70 of the Law on Legal Procedure makes clergymen from the church and ministers of recognized religions unable to be judges, but it is good for publishers from unrecognized religions. Therefore, in both proposals, the intention is that we make the rules forward, so that neither priests of the church nor ministers of recognized religions nor ministers of unrecognized religions can, in other words, prevent them from being judges. And that's good. I am pleased that the government has chosen to listen and has been so accommodating that it has tabled a legislative proposal on the same thing that the Danish People's Party has tabled a motion for a resolution on. We are pleased that the government has made this proposal here. That is why I can also say that we have no intention of passing on our own motion for a resolution to the second reading. We are slowing down our own proposal, and we can only welcome the fact that the government has complied with us here. Then there is the question of the size of the basic list committees in the municipalities, where the proposal provides for greater local self-determination in relation to the size of the committees. That makes sense in relation to the requested number of judges to be nominated by the basic list committees, and we support that. It is proposed to increase the age limit for lay judges from 70 years to 75 years, and this is a sensible step in all. But in reality I would like one to have the opportunity to be a lay judge as long as one may have the desire and ability to do so, i.e. that we look more at the abilities and ability of the people, and whether one is fresh, and not on the date of birth as the only thing. So we are quite in line with the Elders Case and Danish Seniors and DANISH Elders' Council, who have had the same wishes in their hearing response. Then I think, and it is just an additional remark, that it is strange that there is apparently a practice in the basic list committees that takes ethnicity into account. I think it is strange that in the year 2017 we still have a discussion about it, because I do not think that should be taken into account. The founding committees must, of course, nominate those they think are suitable, and then their origins must have a lesser meaning. In addition, the government's proposals contain a number of other proposals, and I would like to comment briefly on a few of them. The draft law provides for the possibility of using telecommunications in the processing of auctions by the court. That is sensible and we support it. Then there is the question of the possibility of appointing a national judge in connection with the fact that a national judge is chairman of a commission of inquiry, and that is also sensible, so we can agree to that. And then there is an amendment to the Code of Procedure to align the rules for interpreting legal proceedings with the European Convention on Human Rights. However, as I read the proposal, there is, as a rule, no problem in practice today. It is working well enough, and yet we must abide by our own rules in accordance with the Convention. I cannot understand that, but it may be possible for me to clarify it in the course of the committee's proceedings. The proposal also contains a proposal that Denmark should accede to the Convention on Jurisdiction and Jurisdiction, and I simply need further clarification in the Committee on Legal Affairs. It sounds quite inconvenient to read parts of the passengers here, but we must have the specific consequences identified, which is why I cannot make it quite clear today whether we can agree to it or not. But we will come back to that as soon as it has been clarified in committee. And the part of the proposal which concerns improved opportunities for decisions on refusal of freedom of movement is also fine, so it is also very positive. So, in the last part of my speaking time, I also have to make a criticism of the government in relation to the fact that so many different proposals have been put together in one legislative proposal. I think that is a disgraceful situation to stand in. I believe that the proposals are quite different, and there must also be a freedom for individual parties to take a position on individual parts and to support what might be sensible in the party's optics, but also to say no to the other. So I think it's really problematic. We have had this discussion before. It is not long ago that a number of rapporteurs from various parties raised this criticism, so I really hope that the government will listen to it, so that we do not have to see it again with these joint proposals at least not so much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321201036	You're welcome. There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321201041	Thank you. It was really just about this low-practical element of the discussion we had, and as Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier from the Alternative also mentioned, that is, how to recognise preachers from unapproved religions, namely how to identify them exactly. I'm just interested in that. It is really not polemical, but I just can't quite see how we can do it in a way that is razor sharp and legal certainty in order. For there could be plenty of religions, both in Christian direction, in Muslim direction, all sorts. How to have a sharp definition, so you can say that it is precisely you who speaks on behalf of someone or to someone and who must not be. I am just interested in this because the rapporteur himself has now tabled the motion for a resolution, and then I thought he might have thought about how we could do it in practice.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321201152	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321201154	I do not really see a problem if I understand the question quite correctly. And it is not because I do not want to enter into a discussion about it, because I would like to, but if I understand the question correctly, then it is about how to distinguish or what to restrict. But I do not see a problem in the appointment. But there's another round.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321201217	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321201220	Well, in some cases it'll be clear. They may have a website where it says that this is their preacher or their leader or something; but what about those cases where they may not have, or that there is someone who says it isn't him? This may be easy in recognized religions. However, I would just like to know whether the rapporteur has given some thought to how it can be said so clearly that it is precisely the person who must not be a lay judge. What if it is a religion where the person is not comparable to a priest or an imam, or whatever it might be?
ParlaMint-DK_20170321201312	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321201314	I don't see any problem with that. I now know a number of members of the basic list committees, and I have to say that these are extremely thorough people. I can't imagine those people being able to stop someone that they thought didn't hit within the target. So I think we will find a practical solution to that. I really think that the solution is sensible. So I don't think that's a problem, but of course I'm open to the talk.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321201336	Thank you, sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen. There are no more brief comments. Then, as the Minister himself pointed out at the outset, we come to the Minister for Justice, who now has the floor for the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321201355	Thank you. I would like to thank you for the largely positive reception of the draft law. After all, this is a comprehensive legislative proposal which contains a number of different elements. I would therefore just like to refer to some of the elements of the draft law. One of the essential elements of the draft law is the part which proposes amending the rules of the Code of Civil Procedure on lay judges. As you know, the Danish criminal justice system rests among other things. on a principle of the participation of the people. Lawyers, i.e. those involved as jurors or judges in criminal proceedings, therefore play an important role in taking a decision in criminal proceedings before the courts. This is not least due to the fact that lay judges vote and vote on an equal footing with the legal judges of the court. It is therefore important that the rules on lay judges ensure that the persons taken to be lay judges are fit to carry out this task and that the composition of lay judges constitutes a diverse section of the population. At the same time, it is important to ensure that there are general requirements regarding who is excluded from being laity judges, so that the decisions taken by the courts cannot be called into question. These were precisely the reasons why the Ministry of Justice set up the working group on the selection of lay judges back in 2009; a working group consisting of among others. representatives of the courts, the prosecutor's office and the lawyers' organisations. The group on the selection of lay judges issued its report in spring 2016. The report contains a number of proposals and recommendations for amending the current rules on lay judges. The purpose of the draft law is to implement some of the recommendations presented by the working group in the report. This is proposed by the draft law, among other things. to allow the municipalities themselves to determine the number of members of the municipal basic list committees. This allows municipalities which, following the municipal reform, are required to draw a considerably larger number of people to the basic lists than in the past, to set up basic list committees with more than five members. In addition, the draft law provides for the possibility of requesting exemption from the duties of a lay judge in certain cases. This applies, inter alia, where the duties result in a disproportionate disadvantage to the professional or family situation of a lay judge. The draft law also raises the age limit for lay judges from 70 to 75 years. As can be seen from the draft law, the working party on the selection of lay judges could not reach agreement on this point. However, a majority of the members of the working group did not consider it necessary to discourage an increase in the age limit. As the rules are today, people as young as 66 years of age are cut off from being laity judges. I think that is a pity, because I am sure that many in 66 years of age are both able and willing to contribute to our community of law by carrying out the duties of a lay judge. I therefore think that there is a lot to be said for raising the age limit for lay judges. In addition, an increase in the age limit for lay judges to 75 years corresponds to the increase in the age limit in other areas of law. The draft law also proposes a number of changes in the personalities excluded from being a lay judge. The proposed amendments mean that in future some of the persons who are excluded from being lay judges under the applicable rules will be eligible as lay judges. This applies, among other things, to: staff of subordinate authorities of the departments of ministries and of the State administration, if they are not employed in a senior post. However, the draft law also extends the range of persons who are currently excluded from being laity judges. This is true of so - called clergymen. The question of the access of imams in particular to laity judges is, of course, issues on which there has been a great deal of debate recently. As the rules are today, clergymen in the church and recognized religions are excluded from being laity judges, while the same does not apply to the clergy of religions that are neither recognized nor approved. I think most of us can agree that it is neither fair nor appropriate for clergymen from different religions to be treated equally. The bill therefore proposes to extend the circle of persons who are excluded from being laity judges to include clergymen in all religions, regardless of whether they are recognised, approved or not. In other words, it means that clergymen will be excluded from being laity judges, no matter what religion they belong to. Finally, I would like to briefly address the amendments proposed in the Brussels I Regulation Act. The amendments are proposed in the context of the implementation of the Hague Convention of 30 June 2005 on Jurisdiction Agreements. A jurisdiction agreement is an agreement between two parties concerning the court in which a current or future dispute is to be settled. The Convention lays down rules on what may be agreed on jurisdiction and on recognition and enforcement in cases covered by a jurisdiction agreement. The draft law proposes that the Convention be implemented in the law on the Brussels I Regulation. At the same time, it is proposed to include a new chapter in the Act containing the additional provisions necessary for the application of the Convention. With the adoption of the bill, the Folketing consents under the Basic Law to the Government's accession to the Convention on Jurisdiction and the Enforcement of Judgments on behalf of Denmark. With these comments, I would once again like to thank the rapporteurs for their various contributions. I look forward to further consideration here in the Danish Parliament and, of course, I am available to answer any questions that may arise during the committee's work.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321202008	Thank you, Minister. There are no brief comments to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the negotiations have ended. I propose that the draft law and the resolution be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs. If any of you do not object, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321202028	Tonight I would like to welcome our guests, our friends from the south of the border. The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Christian Rabjerg Madsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321202056	Thank you. This bill is a good day not only because we have guests from the south of the border, but because it is absolutely crucial that we ensure that there is a strong newspaper for the minority south of the border. I myself am a member of the Sydslesvig Committee and know how much Flensburg Avis means as a meeting place for the language, for the many associations and, in general, for the common Danish identity. One should not have visited the minority many times in order to realise how crucial this is. As a starting point, I think that the rule that you cannot receive funding as a medium if you receive more than 50%. of its public finances is sensible. For all Danish media north of the border it is an excellent and excellent rule, but I think it is obvious to anyone who has studied conditions south of the border that this rule is not appropriate or applicable to a media such as Flensburg Newspaper. There are some very special circumstances that apply, and these are, of course, the very special circumstances that we are addressing with the draft law today, i.e. when we exempt the media south of the threshold from the 50-percent rule. We are often accused here of all sorts of things, for example. called a kindergarten and the like, but this proposal is, of course, an example of us being able to work together across parties to find concrete and good solutions to concrete, but also a little difficult legal problems. For many months we have worked together across all the parties. We have called for closed consultations and had a good dialogue with the former Minister for Culture, Mr. Bertel Haarder, and now we continue working with the new Minister for Culture, Mrs Mette Bock. It is an expression of a strong democracy, a highly cooperative government of the people that we have been able to agree across the parties to find a solution. And I am pleased with the very strong signal that lies in the fact that we have found a solution in relation to the minority and Flensburg Newspapers, a solution which I believe is of benefit to all and especially the minority. So it is a day of joy, and of course the Social Democrats can support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321202326	Thank you, sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Morten Marinus from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321202336	Thank you for that, President, and from the Danish People's Party there is also a welcome to our guests from Flensburg. The Danish People's Party has also followed this matter with great interest, and we also wondered when the first time appeared in the South Schleswig Committee and later in the Committee on Culture, i.e. that Flensburg Avis was hit by suddenly being ordered to pay back a grant because overall more than 50 per cent had been achieved. of one's day-to-day operations in grants. Strange it was only for a year that an indictment was made, even though it had actually happened for Flensburg Newspaper for two years. In the Danish People's Party, we have always seen the media support rules as one thing for ourselves and the support of the South Schleswig Committee as something else, i.e. as both a support for the Danish minority and the Danish-minded in South Schleswig, that is to say on the German side of the border, and thus as a support to make one have a media that can gather Danish-minded people south of the border. We believe that this is also a necessity. In the Danish People's Party, we are also pleased that we have finally managed to get an agreement in place that looks like the whole parliament supports, so that the media that are just in the border country are exempted from the 50-percent rule. I think that is something that you will look at positively, both on the Danish side of the border with Der Nordschleswiger, but also on the German side with Flensburg Avis. In the Danish People's Party we naturally support the bill and look forward to the further work.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321202523	Thanks to Morten Marinus. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Britt Baker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321202531	Thank you. As you know, the proposal here stems from an unintended effect of the rules in force in the Media Support Act. This is a problem that we discussed in the autumn in connection with the case of Flensburg Avis, and a problem that the former Minister for Culture, Bertel Haarder, has focused on solving. The two previous rapporteurs have already explained very well the background to the proposal and the content of the proposal, so I shall refrain from doing so. Instead, I would like to say briefly the following: of course, if we discover unintended effects in the current rules, as is the case here, we need to rectify the legislation. We want to continue to support the news media in the border region. They are extremely important in terms of news dissemination to Danish and German minorities on both sides of the border, and they help to ensure a diverse media supply and to strengthen the democratic debate in Denmark. Against this background, I can inform you that the Left naturally supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321202638	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321202644	Thank you. It is a good thing that we can get the law right when we have at first made it so unclear that there could be justified doubts about it. It is of course the case that every year the Danish Parliament gives support to the Danish minority in South Schleswig with a fairly considerable amount of money. We spend well enough 400 million. kr. a year to schools, to media, to party and to organizations. This is an important work which has been going on since 1920 when we got the new border. The same thing is also happening the other way, so that the German minority can keep walking and preserve language, culture and identity on this side of the border. When a problem arose in the media sector, it was because the law was unclear, and this meant that media support risked falling away because Flensburg Avis had received more than 50 per cent. in public aid for a few years. It was clear that we had to meet, and I thought it was a good thing that the Committee on Culture was able to make a report on 9 November 2016 and even a unanimous report which, in fact, was rather atypical, was an indirect call to the people who grant media support. Normally, we say that we should not interfere with that, because there must be arm's length principles, but we did that attempt and then we made an admission, and then it was not such a call to the media committee, but more a recognition that we ourselves had made a mistake. In fact, it also turned out to be important to mention that Flensburg Newspaper was in a very, very difficult financial situation for a short period of time, that is, if it had been found that they had to pay back money. I think it might also show that it would be really, really good to paddle the medium Flensburg Avis somewhat better so that they can resist some storms. I am not going to run a newspaper for the minority in Sydslesvig, but I suppose you can make a call to your good friends, and there may be storms bigger than what happened in November 2016, and therefore it could be really, really good if it could be done. The bill specifies that the two minority media can receive media support, even if they receive more than 50 per cent. State aid. I think it is important to stress in this situation that it is not only about Der Nordschleswiger and Flensburg Avis, but also about the media that minorities might be working on in the future. I think that is important to emphasise, because otherwise this change of law could quickly become a little out of date. After all, we know how uncertain it is for the paper newspapers at the moment, and it is important that we emphasise that we have to work with the media that people want to read, which means that we have to work on finding opportunities with television and that we have to work on finding opportunities with social media. This is also one of the things that Flensburg Avis has been working on in recent years, i.e. both expanding the way the newspaper works, but also making TV and making news on social media. Because otherwise I'm afraid of what it's gonna be like. The special target group for Der Nordschleswiger and for Flensburg Avis is not infinite, it is relatively limited to the minority and the surrounding area, that is to say the friends, and therefore one should remember that there is not much scope for enlargement. That is also why it is really to say that here you can make an exception without going to become what to call it "unfair competition." That is why I believe that we should try to work with our friends in minorities so that they can have sustainable media that reach out and, I believe, also much further out than they do today. It is an important medium, but the medium must very much, very much, go further, including the other media that are being worked on, but we must try to look at that in the South Schleswig Committee. But at least now we have removed the risk that the media might risk losing media support, and I am very pleased about that, and that is why we will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321203132	Thank you, sir. Christian Juhl. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Leif Mikkelsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321203142	Thank you. After all, there is broad support in the Folketing for adding the clear clarification in relation to media support, so that it is possible to support in the border country beyond what is elsewhere, and that is good and right. It has been mentioned here how important the work of the border country is, not least in terms of communication and communication. In my previous job as DDGU and later as DGI chairman, I have been able to record the crucial and important links that our entire voluntary association work has in the border country, and the interfaces that the border country has with our main organisations in Denmark, and in those relations we also encountered the media and saw what opportunities and conditions there were and what role they played. It is as if the written media may play a stronger role in the border country, where we can actually see that their role in the rest of Denmark is declining and becoming weaker. They play a smaller and smaller role, and you almost stop holding the newspaper. Without just having the exact knowledge of it now, I can say that at that time I just sensed that they played a bigger role and that perhaps there was a tendency to hold on to some traditions more firmly. So that's why this is kind of an important bill. We are giving an opportunity for there to be support so that those parts can live on south of the border or in the border country at all. So we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321203317	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321203327	Thank you. I will be brief: the draft law we are discussing here must be seen in the direct follow-up to the report adopted by a unanimous Committee on Culture and intended to correct the inappropriate consequences of the media support law in the media, which is addressed to the Danish minority in South Schleswig and the German minority in North Schleswig, having had to repay aid because they have had more than 50%. public aid in their turnover. When the media addressing the national minorities are caught up, it is also because they receive cultural and cultural support, which is why it is good that we in the Folketing can meet and correct it. In addition, Denmark has also signed the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of National Minorities, which is intended to ensure the preservation and development of the culture and identity of national minorities, so it must also be seen in the context of this bill. So I very briefly agree with the good arguments put forward by the other rapporteurs in order to support it as well. So the alternative supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321203433	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Zenia Stampe, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321203438	We also support the proposal, and I can say, as one of those involved in the media support negotiations at the time, that it was really something that we were not aware of. So it was a mistake. We never talked about this hitting Flensburg Avis, so it was something we weren't aware of. We are very pleased that a lasting solution has been found. I have to say that I was a tiny bit sceptical and uneasy about the temporary solution we found, because I think it is a tiny bit hesitant that a parliamentary committee should enter and that is also what Enhedslisten pointed out and calls on an independent body to implement the law or interpret the law in a different way than was actually intended. There is no doubt that it was a broad wish we had and that it was because we had not taken account of this situation when we made the law, but I think it is a little problematic when you go in from the legislator and, retroactively, call on an independent committee to translate that was the word I was looking for before a law against the letter of the law. But we did. It was a good thing that it helped temporarily, but it is of course best that a lasting solution to the problem has now been found, because there is no doubt that the newspapers of minorities are extremely important now, and I am sure they will be in the future too, so it is good that we have taken that into account so that we can protect the media.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321203614	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur I see there is in this Chamber is Mr. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321203625	We have been informed that there has been an unintended effect of the law on media support. Flensburg Avis has been ordered to repay media aid amounting to a total of 3.7 million. kr. for 2015, because the total amount of public aid was 56,2%. of the newspaper's operation. It is a provision of the Media Support Act that does not allow public aid to be granted if public aid is more than 50%. of the operation. It has de facto cut media in the border country from receiving media support. That is why we now want to amend the law to ensure, by way of exception, that media can continue to be supported in the border country. Because we want to ensure that we can support media in the border country, such as: Flensburg Avis. The border is a really good example of how two peoples live side by side. Since 1920 we have supported the Danish minority in Sydslesvig, and we would like to continue to have the opportunity to do so. Flensburg Avis is a newspaper in which German and Danish articles stand next to each other as a picture of the good relationship between Danes and Germans who are in the border country. It is a newspaper we would like to promote with media support because it promotes a diverse and diverse supply of news in order to strengthen Danish democracy and democratic debate. That is why the law is now being amended. We will solve the problem by specifying that news media are going to the border country, that is. the Danish minority in South Schleswig and the German minority in South Jutland are not covered by the provision. We in the Conservative People's Party think this is a good and pragmatic solution to a problem that we would like to help solve. That is why we support the amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321203834	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321203844	Thank you, President. It is pure harmony and idyllic to end the day in this way with a completely unanimous Parliament, so I think it is really nice. My grandparents held Flensburg Newspaper, my parents held Flensburg Newspaper, and I have been reading Flensburg Newspaper for many years. I have also read Der Nordschleswiger, so I know the daily newspapers in the border country, and it is really, really important that we have media in the border country, and that is for many different reasons. After all, with this bill, we are ensuring that the news media in the border country, which are addressed to our minorities, can receive media support, regardless of the extent of public funding. It is very good that we ensure this, but I would still like to urge both media to make an effort, and I have also heard a few comments about this from the other rapporteurs, to have an economy that is as healthy as possible, so that we may in fact get beyond this issue. It is difficult, and not least in a border country. However, I am pleased that we can support the news media, which, of course, play a crucial role not only in relation to news communication but also in relation to bringing together minorities. It is a cultural meeting place that you have media, and I think it is a great pleasure to see that we broadly agreed, across all political parties, to implement this clarification of the law, which particularly affects Flensburg Avis, because it is Denmark that supports Flensburg Avis, while compared to Der Nordschleswiger it is not a current problem because there is media support coming from the south of the border. So the news media in the border country are helping to fulfil the aim of the Media Support Act to promote a diverse and diverse supply of news of a social and cultural nature with a view to strengthening Danish democracy. I would also like to say that media support is also helping to lift the democratic debate and the popular community, and this is particularly true of the national minorities in the border country. There are some, perhaps only one, who also pointed out how media support works at all, and to that I would say that it is a very, very big debate that lies ahead of us, and we need to use the time over the next few years to discuss it so that we can have a proper reform of the entire media support, which also means that the media is not only published on paper, but also in the form of radio, live images, on the Internet, etc. This is a development that is in full swing, and I actually think that this little curl, which has been very, very important in relation to exactly Flensburg Newspaper, is also helping to point out that we probably need to modernise the entire complex we have about media support. I would like to look forward to the further consideration which I hope will be given to the ground, and once again I would like to express my thanks for a very positive approach, including to the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport, for the initiatives taken by the committee. It's really good that we get this case straight. In general terms, I would say to the media in the border country that it is also important that it is not only the minority members who are interested in what is said in the media there. It would be really, really nice if there were several Danes who were interested in the Danish minority south of the border, just as I think it is important that south of the border you actually keep paying attention to the fact that you have a German minority north of the border. Media can also help promote this. So it's just beyond the steppes so we don't forget our historical consciousness about our border country and about our minorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321204235	Then the day ended in harmony. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Culture. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170321204248	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday, 22 March 2017, at 12.00 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
