ParlaMint-DK_20171122130029	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Martin Lidegaard (RV) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B-35 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the establishment of a protected natural area in Øresund). Kirsten Normann Andersen (SF) and Jacob Mark (SF): Motion for a resolution No. B 36 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the abolition of double mandates as a member of the municipal or regional council and a member of the Folketing). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20171122130101	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122130124	The first question is to the church minister by Mr. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122130135	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122130137	Thank you. How does the Minister intend to prevent the plundering and vandalism of graves, which has recently been seen examples of both at Hellerup Cemetery and the Muslim Graveyard in Brøndby?
ParlaMint-DK_20171122130150	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122130153	Thank you. First of all, I would like to stress that, of course, I find it totally unacceptable that there should be destruction and vandalism in cemeteries. This is totally unacceptable. Now it is the case that we in Denmark do not have a state church. We have a public church, and that also means that it is the individual church councils and cemetery boards that take care of these cases and report them to the police. It is also the church councils and the cemeteries that know about the individual cemeteries and thus have the best opportunity to go in and see what measures might be necessary to prevent these atrocities. Paragraph 139 of the Criminal Code contains a provision that protects the peace of the grave. According to section 139 paragraph (a) of the 2005 Aviation Guidelines, the Commission is not in a position to assess the compatibility of the aid with the internal market. 1, the person who violates the peace of the grave or commits indecent corpses can be punished by a fine or imprisonment up to 6 months, and that provision also includes destruction or vandalism against planting or gravestones. As a starting point, I think that citizens should be able to move freely in the cemeteries in Denmark. I do not think it would be fair, for example, if we were to do so. decided to close the cemeteries to access, to the extent that there are no staff present. Access to the cemeteries is something that means a lot to a lot of survivors. However, it may of course be relevant to take specific initiatives in the individual cemetery, in relation to how the situation is in the individual place, and I know that also happens. However, as I have said, it is a local decision and it is my clear opinion that it is church councils and cemetery boards that are best equipped for it because they are simply familiar with local conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122130346	Thank you. Then it's the questioner, sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122130347	Thank you. Nor is social democracy a supporter of a state church, nor is it a supporter of a national church. When I have raised the question, it is because, for example, I am. so that Hans Christian Andersen's tombstone in Odense had been overturned and that some had written Fuck Denmark and shortly afterwards 50 burial places were vandalized in the Muslim cemetery in Odense. I live in the West, where we have experienced something similar. There has also been an argument about the Muslim Graveyard in Brøndby, and a few days later there was vandalism against a church in Ishøj. In this way, I actually have the impression that there is no evidence that there is just the context of a political discussion and some political tensions moving into our graveyards and cemeteries, and I think that we can quickly agree on this is unfortunate. So my follow-up question is whether the Minister will be involved in initiating an investigation into whether there has been an increase in relation to this kind of politically motivated vandalism in cemeteries, in order to be able to support the local church councils and the boards of the cemeteries in taking their measures in the areas where it has taken place.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122130455	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122130457	It can be very difficult to see what the motive for the vandalism is if the people who committed the vandalism have not also been arrested, and that is a prerequisite for investigating it. I can inform you that the latest evidence of how much vandalism is taking place was carried out in 2006. Since then, no such documentation has taken place. I think it is worth considering whether we should try to have an overall inventory of it, insofar as it is not present. But whether the statement itself can help the individual congregation councils and the cemetery boards, I do not know. Because it's out there, you know what's going on.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122130537	Thank you. The asker again, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122130538	Thank you. I know both from people who sit on the church council in the West, and from priests, but also from people who have to do with the Muslim burial ground in Brøndby, that it is incredibly hurtful to see that there is ongoing vandalism and that there is no conviction. The judgments I have been able to find that have fallen are about some teenagers who in a fire have knocked down some tombstones and have been fined and some suspended prison. But it is clear that when it comes to the politically motivated, where it is the entire cemeteries that are raging, or the Muslim burial ground in Brøndby, I think perhaps we should try politically to address the issue a little better. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether, in addition to carrying out an investigation which I can then hear has been carried out 11 years ago, the Minister will be involved in meeting and discussing what initiatives we can take to support the local work of preventing vandalism.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122130631	Yes, please! It is always good to start with the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122130633	Firstly, I agree with one hundred per cent that it is totally unacceptable to go in and commit vandalism in relation to some of the things that mean a great deal to a human being. There is no need for vandalism at all, but this is really offensive. Secondly, I am, of course, prepared at any time to take a meeting if there are matters which the questioner wishes to have clarified or discussed. I am very prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122130702	Then it's the last round of questions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122130703	Thank you. We would very much like to follow that up, and in this respect I think it would also be useful if we could have before that meeting an overview of how many judgments have actually been made on the basis of the paragraph which the Minister began his speech by mentioning, in other words, on the basis of a violation of the peace of the grave. For my immediate assessment, there is very rarely judgment. In any case, in those cases where I have been in contact with both the Muslim Graveyard and with the council of the Western Region, there have not been judgments in the cases in which they have been involved.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122130739	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122130741	I'll try to check that out. It will, of course, be a description of the extent to which judgments have been passed, but that can of course give rise to further discussion. But I have to give an answer to the question, as far as is possible at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122130756	Thank you. Then there's a new question for the minister of church, and that's by Mr. Knox. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122130801	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122130804	Thank you. Does the Minister, like his party colleague Laura Lindahl, not care that Islamic religions interfere in the gang dispute bypassing the authorities?
ParlaMint-DK_20171122130811	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122130813	Thank you for the question. Like so many others, of course, I have also taken note of the whole discussion about this alleged peace agreement in connection with the gang dispute in Copenhagen. The handling of the gang conflict therefore has a great many opinions, both in society and among my political colleagues, and it is an important matter to have a thorough discussion, regardless of how it develops. I think it is a balancing exercise, whether and how much civil society should go into the conflicts themselves, but I would like to make it clear that I think parents have a responsibility at all times to keep an eye on what their children are doing, to bring them up properly and to ensure that they comply with Danish legislation wherever they are concerned. The gang dispute is a matter for the Copenhagen Police, and I therefore have no further comments on the matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122130909	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122130910	Oh, but I'm thinking it's been going on in a mosque. Islamic Religion is an approved religion in Denmark, which is why I think it is appropriate to ask the Minister, for it is, after all, within the minister's area of responsibility, whether the Minister may share the concern that it has occurred in a mosque under the Islamic Religion, knowing that Islamic Religion in the documentary broadcast • The mosques behind the veil directly advise against going to the authorities if they have been subjected to violence and rape. Is the Minister aware of this and does the Minister share the concern that Islamic religions have been involved in something that the authorities do not know what is?
ParlaMint-DK_20171122130942	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122130942-2	What I can say is that Danish legislation must be respected. Whatever it is for citizens who are in this country, Danish legislation must be respected. Where people go and where they stay and how parents take hold of their children, I would not like to get involved as a minister. What I think is essential is to make it clear that parents have to make sure that they are brought up, they have to make sure that they form them so that they comply with Danish legislation. I do not want parallel legislation in relation to Danish legislation. It is the Danish courts that are our court in Denmark, and I relate to that, and I do not want to change that in any way.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122131021	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122131022	I very much agree with that, but should I understand that the Minister, unlike Laura Lindahl, doesn't care who's in charge of this? Because we know that Islamic religions have been through this gang dispute bypassing the authorities, bypassing the police. So I understand that at least the Minister does not give a whistle about which players are involved in the attempt not to create a peace agreement, but a ceasefire for which we do not know the conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122131044	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122131045	In order to maintain the Danish legal state, the Danish police and the Danish courts are in charge. So in the matter of parents' responsibility to raise their children to become good citizens, I leave it to the parents to deal with this matter. It is a great duty that all of them must take on, and it does not matter in what relationship it is, parents have a duty towards their children.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122131109	Thank you. Next round of questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122131110	I understand the Minister doesn't give a damn who's interfering. Should I still understand that the Minister believes that it is the Danish authorities, and not different religions, that must go in and resolve the conflict and stop the shootings in Copenhagen?
ParlaMint-DK_20171122131122	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122131125	To the extent that illegal activities are carried out, the matter is the responsibility of the Danish police. But I still want to say that every parent has a responsibility for the upbringing of their own children and for ensuring that these children behave properly and learn that they have to comply with Danish legislation. It is and remains a parental responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122131145	Thank you. The question is closed. There is a question for the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing from Mr. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122131153	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122131155	Thank you. Will the Minister help to change the notice on parking cards for people with disabilities so that it will be possible to issue non-personal disabled parking cards to, for example, a nursing home where residents are eligible for disabled parking?
ParlaMint-DK_20171122131208	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122131209	Thank you for the question. The rules are set out, as the author also says, in the Order on parking cards for people with disabilities. It follows from Article 1 (1) of the Order. 1 that a parking card is a special card issued to persons with disabilities who fulfil certain conditions laid down in Section 6. I will not go over the conditions here, but just say that it is Danske Handicaporganisations that are responsible for assessing first of all whether an applicant meets the conditions laid down in § 6. It is therefore an organisation which has expertise in this area that carries out the assessment. Paragraph 7 of the Order states that the parking card may only be used for the carriage of the holder of the card. This is therefore the issue of personal parking cards, which can also be used by persons meeting the criteria laid down in the notice. I am aware that several sides have expressed a desire to change the rules so that there will be an opportunity to issue cards to an institution. However, it is not clear to me what is the problem with the current rules. For example, according to the rules in force, a nursing home can park in the special parking spaces for disabled persons, provided that one of the carriers has approved an application for a disabled parking card and the card is placed in the windshield. Thus, nowhere in the notice does it say that the user of the parking card must also be the driver of the vehicle. This ensures that the special parking space is used in connection with the transport of a person assessed by Danske Handicaporganisations to have such a need that the conditions laid down in Section 6 of the Order are met. I find it difficult to see how, if an institutional card were introduced, it would have to be ensured that the card would only be used in cases where there is undoubtedly a person who meets the conditions laid down in Section 6 of the Order. This may lead to the risk that the special parking spaces will be occupied by someone whom they are not intended for, and that this will therefore be a nuisance to the people in society who are protected by the rules. In view of this, I do not consider it appropriate to change the rules in force, but would recommend that the institutions take advantage of the possibilities offered by the existing rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122131423	Thank you. Sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122131424	Thank you for your answer. I would also like to start by saying that we in the Social Democratic Party have not determined exactly what we think about this. But I have personally received several requests from volunteers at elderly centres in the Copenhagen West region, where I am elected, and they say that when they take some of the residents on excursions to Rødovre Centre or Brøndby Stadium, they must each and every time find out which of the residents' parking cards they should carry. These are often very caring older people, for example. be older with dementia and it can cause practical problems that they cannot always find the parking cards and such things, and this means that there is a risk that the volunteers will end up with a parking ticket. That is why they ask: Now that the elderly in Danish elderly centres are becoming weaker and weaker and more and more treatment-intensive, and more and more of them are actually disabled, and more and more people are being discharged, who are having difficulty in walking, would it not be easier for the institution to have a parking card and that they could drive up to Rødovre Centre and park the car without having to exchange the cards every time and make sure that the card also fits one of those who was on the bus? Could we not be a little large and make sure that those who are volunteers at our elderly centres are met by a little less bureaucracy?
ParlaMint-DK_20171122131545	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122131546	I find it a little difficult to see the problem that, if you are going with a group of people, let's say it's five, one or two of whom are disabled, you bring with you the disabled parking card that the person or two people have, and then you have free access to parking spaces for disabled people. The alternative would be that it was the car itself that was equipped with a disabled parking card, and it would then run around with it at all times, regardless of the people who were sitting in it. That would, of course, be a circumvention of the rules, and it would also mean that there would be more scratches on the disabled parking spaces that exist than there are today.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122131624	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122131625	I do not deny that this can be done today; I would just like to discuss what is most practical and least bureaucratic. These cars have already been bought free of charge, i.e. That you can't just drive on the beach with the staff. It is, of course, for those who live in the nursing home, otherwise it would be illegal, only because those cars are bought without fees. So what the question is really about is: when we are in the lucky situation, that an ever-increasing number of Danes voluntarily work in nursing homes and get some of the older people out on trips, do they really have to worry that every time they go out on a trip, they have to be sure that Mrs Jensen's disability card is included and that if it is not, they have to lie around after it in drawers and cupboards? Can we not just say that we are now in the situation that most people who live in elderly centres in Denmark are actually entitled to such a disability card, which is why we might as well put it in the windshield in the car and leave it with the institution?
ParlaMint-DK_20171122131715	We must keep to our speaking time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122131717	I don't have the figures with me today, but I don't think that's true when Mr. Simpson is here. Mattias Tesfaye says that most people living in elderly centres are entitled to a disability card. Actually, I don't think that's true. I don't think most people have it. This is the problem that Mr. Mattias Tesfaye is trying to make very simple, something more complicated than that, because that would mean that the cars would mostly drive around with people who do not have the right to park in disabled parking spaces. It has been transferred to Danish disability organisations to assess who is entitled to it, and when you have been given the right, you have a card that you can take with you in the car or that your carers can take with you in the car, and then you can park in a disabled parking lot.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122131755	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122131756	I think the Minister is right that it is not a majority who has been issued a handicap parking card, but I think I am right that it is an ever-increasing number of elderly people in elderly centres who would have the right to a disability parking card, and that is why my question here is just here and I hear that the answer is 'no' to the question, if it would not be smarter and less bureaucratic, if the elderly centres were just able to get one to the institution. But I can then hear that we will no longer be able to do that today.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122131819	Here you go to the Minister at the end.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122131821	I think that it might be easier for some of these institutions, a tiny bit easier, because I do not think that the problem of taking a card with us today is very big, but what would then be achieved would then be that there would be a use of disabled parking spaces for these buses, even when the transported residents who do not have the right to park in disabled parking places, and thus there would be fewer disabled parking places available to those who are actually disabled.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122131850	Thank you. The question is closed. There is a new question for the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122131900	Here you go, sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122131906	Thank you, President. I read out the question: does the Minister think it is wise to save DSB in the light of the problems of roll-out of the new signal programme?
ParlaMint-DK_20171122131919	Here you go. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122131920	Thank you for the question. As the honourable Member has pointed out, DSB's ability to deliver train operations in isolation from the infrastructure cannot be seen. This also applies to the signal programme. It is precisely against this background that I, together with the questioner and the other parties in the Folketing, with the exception of Enhedslisten and the Alternative on 15 November 2017, agreed on a new strategy for the signal programme. The strategy aims precisely to provide the best possible framework for the implementation of the train operation. The point is that the new strategy is based on passengers and the new train deliveries, which the electrification and then the roll-out of the signal programme must adapt to. My ministry is in dialogue with railway companies on the precise implementation of the new strategy for the signal programme. It is clear that this is an important dialogue to carry out. As regards the agreed reduction in DSB's contractual payment, I would say that it corresponds to the reduction made by DSB's management. The reduction is therefore based on a projection of DSB's current contract with the efficiencies and economic improvements that DSB itself considers possible, including the impact of the changes on the infrastructure. I find it difficult to see what the problem is of reducing the contract by the amount that DSB itself has registered. For the sake of good order, I can inform you that, in relation to DSB, the effect of changing the use of new runway between Copenhagen and Ringsted will be corrected. That is why I believe that the answer to the question must be a yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122132047	The questioner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122132048	Thank you very much to the Minister for this very, very long answer, which did not really give such a clear answer to what passengers are experiencing out there. The fact is that passengers must now stand up for further delays in the signal programme, and they are well aware that this is probably going to mean more cancellations, more delays, more problems in the railway sector at all. Can the Minister not then see that it seems like a very strange signal that the government is saying: okay, now we have these problems, now you are going to experience delays and cancellations and all sorts of other things, but on the other hand we are just taking away several hundred million kroner from DSB? The opportunity that DSB should have to compensate a little, put in a little extra buses, serve an extra cup of coffee and somehow make it all a little more edible out there in public traffic, certainly does not get any better when you remove this money and, as we have understood from the Social Democrats, it is with your hands tied on your back that DSB says yes to this. So can the Minister not understand the strange signal in saying in the midst of chaos and problems that we are now making it even harder for DSB to navigate this by removing money from them?
ParlaMint-DK_20171122132220	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122132221	It is true that our old signalling systems are functioning rather badly and that they cause traffic problems, and that is why we need a new signalling system and that is why it is worth spending money on a new signalling system. The fact that it is going to take a little longer to install the new signalling systems on specially selected lines than we had expected in the past makes it a longer period when you have to live with the old and the slightly bad signals. However, this does not mean that the other improvements in efficiency, which DSB considers to be feasible, should not be implemented, and that does not mean that, once DSB has implemented the improvements in efficiency, the State will simply have to pay a large overpayment for DSB's transport company, even if efficient operation makes it cheaper. I hope so, sir. Rasmus Prehn agrees.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122132308	Here you go, sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122132309	I still think the Minister is not talking about it. For example: You can hear from the commuters that they're most critical of this. I am here with a quote from the commuter speaker on the coast track, Michael Randrup, and he says here that the government is slaughtering the whole of public transport. Does not the Minister for Transport have any impression that the policy led by the Minister is perceived as a regular slaughter of public transport?
ParlaMint-DK_20171122132344	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122132345	I think it is a pity that we have that view, and I think that Mr. Rasmus Prehn should not pretend to agree with that view, for Mr. Rasmus Prehn knows that we are spending 119 billion in these years. kr. • EUR 119 billion for investment in rail transport in Denmark; kr. In comparison, we spend less than a third on better roads in Denmark - so there is a huge discrepancy. We spend a great deal of money on rail traffic, which is why it is wrong to say that we are slaughtering rail traffic. It's just factually Rasmus Prehn keeping himself too good to agree with anyone.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122132417	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122132419	This isn't about me giving anyone right or not right. I'm just referring to an experience of it with some people out there who are actually working to represent the train passengers. They see it as a slaughter. There's chaos, problems, delays. What the government is doing is saying: we are removing further money from DSB. And by the way, we do not want to be involved in conciliation on the Train Fund DK, nor do we want to be involved in conciliation on making it better and cheaper; we do not want to be involved in anything. It is perceived by the commuters as a regular slaughter. Is the Minister not concerned that we are chasing even more passengers off the railroad and into some cars so that there will be even more congestion on the roads?
ParlaMint-DK_20171122132457	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122132458	Well, I think it is really a pity that our train is not running so well today due to past times too few and too small investments in rail traffic in Denmark, including at times when the Social Democrat had the power of government. However, the problems on the coastal track are not linked to the fact that there is too little money for DSB. They are linked to an infrastructure that is outdated. Sir. Rasmus Prehn knows that when we get electrified rails on Zealand at some point, we will be able to let the coast track drive out on the Zealand regional network instead of driving up through Sweden, where there are large delays • and this will improve the timeliness. So that's one of the things we can do. And we cannot speed up that process, even if we had a billion or two billion more.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122132541	Thank you. The question is closed. Then that is the final question to the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing, and that is from Mr. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122132548	Sir. Rasmus Prehn, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122132552	Thank you, President. I would like to read out the question again: does the Minister believe that there is a need to take responsibility for the problems of roll-out of the new signal programme, and should it have managerial and communicative consequences for Banedanmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20171122132603	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122132605	Thank you for the question. Last week, 15 November 2017, both I and the questioner attended a meeting with the other conciliation group, where the main conclusions of Deloitte's external review of the signal programme were presented. Time does not allow me to go into the details of the review. You can see that for yourself on the Ministry's website. In short, it is the case that it is a number of unforeseen circumstances that make the onboard equipment of the old trains take longer than planned. The review thus notes that the supply history of Alstom, which has the contract for the installation of the onboard equipment on railway undertakings' trains, suggests that the equipment of the train fleet with onboard equipment is expected to be significantly delayed. Therefore, if I had been asked who was responsible for the earlier more optimistic predictions of how long it would take, I could have pointed out in particular to the offer-making company Alstom, which has clearly underestimated the task. Therefore, the contractual consequences of this need to be clarified. As far as management in Banedanmark is concerned, it was replaced last year, and it is the new management that has helped to bring the problems of the signal programme to light. It has also begun to clean up after the sins of the past and to find constructive solutions to the unforeseen problems that have arisen. It is quite clear that there are problems, but the current management is, in my opinion, not one of the problems, but an important piece of the solution to the problems. I therefore have the same expectation as Deloitte, namely that there will be significant improvements in Banedanmark's risk, contract and budget management over the coming years. It is an ungrateful task to be solved in Banedanmark, and I am therefore pleased that the questioner, along with the rest of the conciliation circle last week, supported the new plan put forward by Banedanmark's management. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122132747	Here you go, sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122132749	Once again, thank you to the Minister for reviewing the extent of the signal problems we have. It's always good to get a picture of what's up and down on it. It is very, very unfortunate that we have ended up in this situation, and there is no doubt that it will probably not be better for the government not to be involved at all when it comes to correcting the railway of the future. It is outside of the Togfonden DK, outside of the "Better and Cheaper" and will now also remove money from the DSB. But the question relates more to the question of whether someone can be held accountable, and now that we are in this situation and the Minister in his reply here today himself says that we must then have followed up the contractual consequences of this, what the Minister is saying to the press after this meeting seems to be, to say the least, strange, because he says: 'Try and listen, we cannot hold anyone to account, it is the reality'. It's the real world's fault? So you see that the Minister is involved in a traffic offense or is driving into another driver, and best like the other driver is standing there thinking: I want some information here so that I can take an insurance company to account, then the Minister jumps out and says: 'Try and listen, it's real!' In other words, can the Minister himself not hear that it is very irresponsible for the Minister, at the meeting where we must once again present the citizens with delays, costs, as the only answer to whose responsibility it is, to say that this is the fault of reality?
ParlaMint-DK_20171122132934	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122132936	Sir. Rasmus Prehn, in his question, pretends that money from better and cheaper, Train Fund DK and contract money for DSB can solve the problems with the signal program. That is not correct. That's why it's just a rhetorical scam, like Mr. Knox. Rasmus Prehn begins with there, knowing, moreover, that the government would like to be part of Better and Cheaper, but that it has been denied by the Social Democrats that we can be admitted, and knowing that we would also like to be part of the Togfonden DK, if otherwise the Social Democrats would consider some realism in the Togfonden DK as for example. the realism of the Danish People's Party as one of the train foundations, in relation to what can be achieved in phase 2, but Mr. Rasmus Prehn didn't. Sir. Rasmus Prehn wants the government to join a project that is unrealistic. So all this aside. I was asked who is responsible for taking so long to equip trains, old trains, with onboard equipment, and to that I replied: it is the reality that is responsible for it. If I had been asked who is responsible for underestimating the task, then the answer would have been: Well, it is primarily the tenderer, Alstom, who has underestimated how long it will take.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122133043	Here you go, sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122133044	So it is really the journalists who have asked the wrong question that we can understand from the Minister. But couldn't the Minister himself have reasoned on what it was that was like the question here? For what the citizens are interested in is when we are again experiencing delays, when we are again experiencing chaos, and when we are again seeing the cost of this is that somebody has to answer for this. The citizens have no expectation that we have succeeded in drawing up a contract with Alstom and Thales-Strutton, and who else is involved in this, where it is not written in, that if it is delayed, or if what we have been promised is not possible, then we will not be stuck on the bill. What I think many citizens, especially those who sit on trains and are delayed, want to know is whether those who have sold this product, which they cannot then deliver, do not have to pay when it is not delivered.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122133137	Yes, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122133138	Sir. Rasmus Prehn repeats that the signal program has become more expensive. Well, the budget we have today is approx. 5 billion kr. less than when the signal programme was decided. At that time there was a budget of just over 24 billion. kr., and now you have a budget of almost 19 billion. kr. In other words, it became cheaper compared to the decision to build a signal system. When that decision was taken, it was said: a new signal programme requires a budget of just over 24 billion. kr. Today we are looking at a price of just under 19 billion. kr., so it hasn't become more expensive, it's become cheaper.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122133214	Then that is the final question. Here you go, sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122133215	Yes, what is about it is that by maintaining the original signals we get an extra bill that we wouldn't have had if the new ones had been able to roll out something faster. So we have something other than what we have paid for, something other than the contract that has been made. The question to which I would like answers, to which the Social Democrats would like answers and to which I believe thousands of rail passengers would like answers, is this: should the people who have sold us this product that they do not supply not be held to account, or is it simply the fault of reality?
ParlaMint-DK_20171122133250	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122133251	As I also replied in my first reply to Mr. Rasmus Prehn's question, then we examine and go to the contracts concluded with Alstom to find out whether financial responsibility can be exercised or whether the project can otherwise be improved. We're in full swing with that, so it's an open door, like sir. Rasmus Prehn kicking in. It is my impression that Mr. Rasmus Prehn thinks that the process there is is just like it should be. Sir. Rasmus Prehn has already taken part in the agreement on how to deal with this in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122133323	Thank you. The question is closed and Question Time is closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122133329	The debate is open. Sir. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122133344	This is a very good bill that the Social Democratic Party can support. I think it is now obvious to everyone that for many years we were pursuing a failed educational policy in Denmark, a policy which guided young people too much towards high school and higher education. It's punishing us now. It penalises companies that lack skilled workers. It penalises the economy, which is affected by lost export earnings and increased expenditure on support. It punishes young people who have not stimulated their talents, but have run mad in studies that basically do not interest them. Now we have jointly changed position: better a good hairdresser than a mediocre philosopher. This is the intention behind the 2015 vocational school reform. A great deal has been focused on quantitative ambitions with the objectives of the reform, namely that many more young people, directly after primary school, will have to look towards commercial schools and SOSU schools and technical schools. Less attention has been paid to the qualitative ambitions of the reform, unfortunately. For reform is only a final quality reform, where we expect more of the newly-started pupils, we expect more in the transition to the main course, and we demand more of the teachers and schools. We stress that no one should pass unless they know their profession. We have also strengthened awareness of student internship in companies. We do not believe that education can be talked up. The prestige will rise, but only when the quality is actually lifted. We cannot talk about a better reputation for vocational schools. Nor can we and should we appeal to the social spirit of young people and parents by emphasising that society is going to lack skilled workers. Fortunately, they don't care about that. Several young people choose training as it becomes clear to everyone that quality is being raised; when it becomes clear to everyone that there is employment with proper earnings; when everyone knows some skilled people who have used their education to read on; and when other young people tell about the good experiences that result from being on the labour market at an early age. We believe we're on the right path, but it's a supertanker that needs to be turned around. In that process it is important not to get cold feet midway. We are therefore committed to the basic principles of the reform, but we have also said at the same time that we would like to adjust the legislation if there are rules that prevent the reform from working. These are a number of these minor adjustments that we have to deal with first. It will be less bureaucratic for schools and adult pupils to organise vocational training. We are adjusting the law so that it is clarified which rights apply to pregnant and long-term sick pupils. We are taking an important step towards combating the abuse by companies of partial agreements for pupils who do not have a normal training agreement. It's all good. We therefore look forward to the legislative process and, as I said, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122133638	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments, comments or questions. Mrs Tilde Bork, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122133646	Thank you for that, President. We are dealing here with Bill L-83. Vocational training for adults was introduced with the vocational training reform back in 2015. The aim was to increase access to vocational training. Unfortunately, the approach has not been quite as expected. In addition, the implementation of a so-called euv has been complex and it has been difficult to carry out teaching in accordance with the rules in force. The proposal here is therefore intended to adjust a number of different rules for vocational training. These include the fact that the maximum limit of two years' internship training will be abolished in the future. This limit is now a challenge in terms of giving the adult pupils sufficient time in the training, the companies have reported back. In addition, students who lack a certificate course in the future will be able to take a course in parallel with the course on the main course. This is very positive, as the previous scheme was neither appropriate for adult pupils nor for school. It is important that in future we increase access to vocational training so as to ensure a sufficient skilled workforce. In the Danish People's Party we are therefore very pleased that a number of adjustments are now being made so that we can make vocational training more attractive. With these words, I can inform you that the Danish People's Party supports the proposal and looks forward to the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122133813	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122133820	Thank you for that, President. Today we are dealing first with L 83, which aims to make some minor adjustments to vocational training for adults, also known as euv. And why are we doing this? Yes, because the approach to euv has not developed entirely as we had expected, and because the implementation of the vocational training reform that we introduced back in 2014 has proved to be too complex in the eud area. And when we see that there are things that do not go as they should, then I think it is quite right that we are now starting to correct those things. That is what we are doing with the bill that we are now debating. With this bill, we're making some adjustments that make the rules better suited to the needs of the eud students. We make the rules more flexible, and we also facilitate administration in relation to others. training time and internships. The rules do not mean that adults who choose to take vocational training should be allowed to stand up to them. Instead, we must make sure that we do what was actually intended from the outset, so that even more people will want and have the courage to take vocational training as well. That is what our society needs. We hear it over and over again, and I really believe that we all agree across parties that we must make an effort to get more young people to take vocational training, because that is what the labour market is calling for. If we are to provide the necessary labour, we also need to make it more attractive, among other things. to take an eud-training course. And our government has done a great many things to ensure that more young people choose a training course. I'm not saying we're in the finish line, but hopefully we're on our way. Because if we do not achieve the goal, we know that in the end we will lose a great many of the good resources, such as: adult people are in relation to vocational training. And with this bill, I am glad that we are now getting some barriers removed and can make it more attractive and less trouble for our adults to take a vocational training course. I have promised to greet the Conservatives and say that they, like the Left, support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122134052	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next one is sir. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122134057	Finally, the draft law addresses a quite unreasonable lack of legal certainty which has prevailed in the field of vocational training for years when it comes to the possibility for pupils to have their training agreement extended once they have been legally absent from their education for a period of time. In particular, it has been completely grotesque that women who have been absent from training because of pregnancy and childbirth have been deprived of the opportunity to complete their training because the employer has refused to extend their training agreement. For years the trade union movement has had the pleasure of participating in the struggle with employers both in the private sector and in the public sector on the question of the extension of training in connection with maternity leave. And only by the Supreme Court ruling, which fell in 2015, was a reasonable legal situation accepted. It is very good that the decision of the Supreme Court a few years ago is now followed by a legislative amendment which clarifies the provisions of the law, both as regards the issues relating to pregnancy and as regards the other matters referred to in Section 58 of the Law and which allow for an extension of the training agreement. In the Enhedslisten, we are also pleased that the maximum of two years of internship training and the compulsory individual shortening of school education in adult vocational education are abolished, although I would say that we would have liked further changes to be made to the provisions on the shortening of training courses for adults undergoing vocational training. It is simply a peculiarity that we have a provision which means that adults taking a vocational training course per year. definition learns 10%. faster than young people taking vocational training. It is not a sensible arrangement, it disturbs adult education in a number of areas, and so we would have liked to have seen a step forward and also to have abolished the mandatory standard shortening of eaves in the context of legislative changes. We also agree with the proposed changes in the field of real competence assessment and the introduction of the possibility of following and completing courses and obtaining a certificate on the initial course, while at the same time completing the teaching on the main course. On the other hand, I would like to say that we are somewhat sceptical about the proposal to relax the demand for short-term training agreements, which today must include at least one school period, together with a period of practical training. We have noted in the consultation answers that have been received, on the one hand, from the Vocational Training Association (EEO) and, on the other hand, from the Education Association, that there is a scepticism about relaxing the requirements of the short training agreements. We are therefore currently considering whether we should table amendments to this part of the draft law and should the amendments be implemented as they stand, then we will at least call on the Minister to follow very closely developments in the use of short-term agreements so as to ensure that the changes have a negative impact on the well-being of pupils and the quality of training, so that, if necessary, action can be taken quickly by amending the provisions.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122134441	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122134448	Thank you for the floor. The aim of Bill L 83 is to improve the search for euv, i.e. Vocational training for adults. It is a broad circle of parties that include the governing parties, the Danish People's Party, the Social Democratic Party, the Radical Left and the SF, agreed on. The good thing about the bill is that it removes a whole lot of bureaucratic legholds, which have been agreed in the contract circle, making it unnecessary to administer eavesdrop. After all, bureaucratic leg buckles are abundant in virtually every ministerial area. It's harder to search from pools than it should be. It is more difficult for the authorities to deal with uncomplicated cases of long-term illness than it should be. It is heavier to administer social legislation than it should be. And this could actually go on well beyond the time we have for first readings. I would like the parliamentary parties to come together more often than is the case to debureaucratize the public sector, but a little is also right, and for me perhaps the most important thing in fact is that a broad circle of responsible parties generally recognizes that the Folketing has a great deal of responsibility for the unnecessary bureaucracy that is everywhere in the public sector. And that also means on eavesdropping, vocational training for adults. And that is why, although it may not be so much in the big picture, the Liberal Alliance naturally supports the bill warmly.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122134640	Thank you. The alternative rapporteur is not present in the Chamber, so we move on to Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122134651	As the other rapporteurs have said here from the platform, this draft law, L 83, aims to adjust to the law on vocational training, so hopefully in the future we will see an increased approach to vocational training for adults. I will not go over the individual elements, because other rapporteurs have done so. I just want to say that the Radical Left will, of course, vote in favour of the bill. And we really hope that these changes will have a positive effect on the approach in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122134726	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122134740	Vocational training is a fantastic offer to young people and to the elderly, who did not receive initial training. Education provides a better life for the individual: greater influence on his own life, higher pay, longer life and more health. Yet some 70,000 under 30 years of age are without training, and tens of thousands of unskilled people live an uncertain working life where you are not sure where to find the next job. Several skilled workers are good for society and that is good for companies, but training is, as I said, first and foremost good for the individual. And it is the companies that have a great responsibility, but also the Folketing must be able to carry out the task. We must make it as attractive as possible to take vocational training, including removing the stones and trip threads that can be used to get adults into education. One point I would like to make is that I am somewhat sceptical, and that is the proposal to relax the terms of shorter agreements. This must not develop into a self-defense table for employers and reduce apprentices to day owners. SF will keep a close eye on developments in this area. However, the SF supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122134907	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122134913	I would like to start by thanking the parties supporting this bill amending the Law on Vocational Training and the Law on Employers' Educational Contributions. The draft law is an important part of making it more attractive for more people to take vocational training, including adult pupils over 25 years of age. Vocational training is an attractive choice of education, first and foremost for the individual, but it is also positive for the whole of society that we have more skilled skilled workers. We have a lot of attention to young people and to the fact that they have to take youth education right after school, and we must continue to focus on that. But we must not forget adults, and therefore it must also be attractive for them over 25 years of age to take up vocational training. The central point of the proposal is the adjustment of vocational training for adults. The euv adjustments must support the ambition of the vocational training reform to increase access to vocational training and to provide sufficient skilled labour for enterprises. The adjustments to the euv basically mean that adult pupils will be obliged to have their education cut short to a lesser extent than today. They continue to have the right to do so, but not the obligation to make individual estimates of training. This should mean that more adult pupils will have the courage to take a eavesdropping and to a large extent also the adults who immediately appear ready for training because they have been on the labour market for a number of years, but who in practice find it difficult to complete a shortened training course. The draft law thus allows more adults to carry out vocational training, and this is positive for the individual. Education is an important key to supporting oneself and gaining power over one's own life and future. However, this is also an advantage for companies because adult learners with experience are often quite attractive because of their overall maturity and past experience from the labour market. The proposal will also reduce the administrative burden on schools, because they do not have to organise very different educational courses because of the individual shortening of pupils. This means that schools can organise teaching more coherently for all pupils. Finally, the adjustments to the eaves mean that the technical committees can cover the costs of testing all eavesdaughters, which, by its very nature, will be of benefit to the committees. In addition to the above-mentioned changes in the area of eavesdropping, the proposal contains three additional points. Firstly, the rules on the right of pupils and companies to extend a training agreement become clearer. It can, for example, be done. be linked to a pupil's pregnancy or long-term illness, where there should be no doubt about the rights and duties of pupils and practitioners. This is a change of consequence as a result of a Supreme Court ruling. Secondly, digital evidence of vocational training is being introduced. This will facilitate administrative procedures for schools and pupils. Thirdly, the requirement for short training agreements to cover at least one period of school and at least one whole period of practical training is relaxed. This will strengthen the principle of growth education and mean that a greater share of pupils' overall training time will take place in real jobs in real companies rather than in school practice. Too many administrative burdens, complicated rules and other legholds are not a motivational factor, and therefore this bill is an important step on the way to making vocational training an even more attractive choice in this case for the more mature pupils. Thank you for the discussions we have had in this Chamber today. I look forward to any questions that may be raised during the committee procedure. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122135249	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Education Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122135303	The debate is open. Sir. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122135317	Today we have to deal with a relatively technical draft law on model parameters for vocational training. But even if it sounds technical, we shouldn't underestimate the importance of this bill. It is a question of solving an important social problem, namely that in some areas we really do not have places for practical training, there are young people who go to the internships and need a company to enter and in other areas have open places for pupils, for example. in industry, where we lack young people who want to take an education. The proposal is an expiry of the tripartite agreement with the trade union movement and the Danish Employers' Association. Here it was agreed to implement an old social democratic desire, namely that it should be more expensive not to take pupils. So companies that do not take responsibility for training must go to their pockets. On the other hand, companies that take responsibility for training have an economic carrot. That's good. Behind this arrangement, there's gonna be a complicated calculation. We would have liked to see a more simple model, but okay, if this is what can gather backup, then it has to be that way. The most important thing is for us to create more internships, which is why we are voting in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122135429	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Tilde Bork, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122135433	Thank you. We are dealing here with Bill L 84. The draft law lays down for employers a target training ratio which describes the relationship between internships and vocationally trained years' work which employers have to perform in order to meet the target of 8,000 to 10.000 more internships. In practice, this means that employers covered by the law will have to pay an additional contribution for each year's internship which the employer lacks in order to meet the target training ratio. This additional contribution will finance a bonus for additional work for internships. In the Danish People's Party we are very positive about the tripartite agreement on sufficient and qualified labour throughout Denmark and internships. We think it is positive that the tripartite agreement provides a reward for the jobs involved in training vocational labour. In the Danish People's Party we have a great desire for more people to choose to take a vocational training course, which is why we also need to ensure that young people can find an internship. That is why we very much welcome this bill and look forward to the committee reading. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122135545	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122135553	Thank you. Today we are also dealing first with a draft law called L 84, which is a consequence of the tripartite agreement that our former Left Government managed to conclude with the social partners back in 2016: a tripartite agreement that should ensure sufficient and qualified labour throughout Denmark and which should also help to create 8,000 to 10.000 additional internships annually when we reach 2025. As part of the work on the tripartite agreement, we created incentives for companies that will make companies more involved in the creation of internships, thereby helping to train professional labour, which will ultimately benefit businesses as well. With this bill, we are now ensuring that if you take responsibility and carry out a greater task of securing more internships, then you will also be more rewarded, while those companies that are less involved in shouldering responsibility will have to pay a little more. So it is a smart redistribution; a redistribution which benefits the many young people who have followed the call for vocational training but who may have had difficulty finding an internship; a redistribution which will help businesses to provide the right workforce in the future too, and which will benefit our entire society because it helps to make the demand for labour with specific training more appropriate to the supply of that labour. It is a question of achieving a better balance between the skills needed in the labour market and the qualifications that our young people receive through their education. With this bill, we're gonna improve that balance. Because, year by year, we are making a new calculation of how we should allocate internship-dependent support to companies on the basis of the expectations we have of the development of labour supply and demand. Because with the right workforce we can create more growth and development and more jobs, hopefully throughout the country. In the light of this, the Left supports the bill, and I would like to welcome the Conservatives and say that they also support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122135838	Thank you. Sir. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122135841	The bill here is a follow-up to previous legislation, which translates the tripartite agreement on internships from August 2016. We have stated in the Enhedslisten, when dealing with the previous legislative proposals, that we seriously doubt that the tripartite agreement will contribute significantly to solving the internship problem and, as the internship figures have developed since the conclusion of the agreement, our doubts about the impact of the agreement have not diminished. It is our view that new initiatives will be necessary if it is to be possible to meet the objectives set out in the tripartite agreements, in order to increase the number of placements, in other words to create 8 000 to 10 000 more places of work in the coming years. But we have seen the agreement as a small step in the right direction. That is why we have supported the legislative proposals adopted in the past in order to implement the agreement, and we agree with the proposal before us.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122135955	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122140001	Last year the Danish Parliament adopted a legislative amendment which introduced the Employers' Educational Contribution, AUB. The idea was to introduce an internship-dependent employer's contribution. The scheme means that firms which contribute to the training of skilled workers are rewarded, while firms which do not do so have to pay a higher amount to the AUB. If there's anything I've learned from sitting in the Folketing, it's that economic theory is one hundred percent right. What you reward you get more from; what you punish you get less from. And if you provide 1,000 generalists with weak professional foundations for the labour market, they will also find a job. It is therefore a very good idea that we should now reward those companies that take on social responsibility. But there are no roses without thorns. If the system is to work, it actually requires a calculation model which sets the rates to be paid by companies. The model doesn't just work spontaneously. The June amendment indicated that the calculation model was temporary and that a permanent model was to be established by law, which was to enter into force from 2018. And just as there is something called "implications', there is obviously also something called "impact legislation', because the corrections are logical corrections resulting from a decision, and impact legislation is, of course, the same, that is to say, legislation that follows logically from a previous decision. Since we in the Liberal Alliance are in complete agreement with the original resolution, we are of course also in agreement with the impact legislation and support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122140201	Thank you. The alternative rapporteur is not present in the Chamber, and then it is Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122140210	With this law, we set out new model parameters for calculating the employer's internship-dependent AUB contribution for 2018. The model parameters 2018 are calculated and established in a collaboration between the Danish Employers' Association and the LO and Radical Left support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122140235	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party. It's good with long legs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122140245	Thank you. It is good that the tripartite negotiations address the great challenge of the lack of internships, but I have to say that I am somewhat surprised at the somewhat restrained level of ambition, when we can now see that over 12 000 people are queuing to find an internship, and when you can see that the trialogue starts with an ambition level of 8 000 to 10.000. Why, though, what about the rest? Why are there no more firm consequences for employers who do not carry out the task? I think that there is a little too much with friendly calls for companies without real consistency. The bill deals with the literal concept of model parameters. You could also call it compulsory solidarity between employers, that is, that you have a rooster that you turn on, and then more money comes into the box, and then you turn on another rooster, so more money goes out to those companies that actually assume responsibility for training. This is a good principle and therefore the SF supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122140356	Thank you. Then it's the Minister of Education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122140402	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking the parties supporting this bill, which is being tabled in the context of the follow-up to Act No. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Vocational training is high on the government's political agenda. It is important that we have strong vocational training in Denmark that young people want to seek and implement. In June of this year, a majority in the Danish Parliament adopted a legislative amendment which introduced an employer's internship-dependent contribution, the Employers' Educational Contribution, also known as AUB. The scheme means that firms which contribute to the training of skilled workers will be rewarded, while firms which do not provide training places to a sufficient extent will have to pay a higher amount to the AUB. That's common sense. If you do not contribute in one way, you must contribute in the other way. In order to calculate the amount to be paid by an entity to AUB, a number of model parameters have been set out. The June amendment indicated that these parameters were temporary and had to be re-calculated and finally established for 2018 by a new legislative proposal. And that's why we're here now. This bill sets out the model parameters for 2018. These model parameters take into account supply and demand, will there be an increasing or decreasing demand for labour with the training in question in the future? This must, of course, be seen in relation to the expected supply of labour. All of this with model parameters and the internship-dependent AUB contribution may seem complicated, but we think it works. I would like to say that business as such is not being charged an extra bill with the bill. The bill agreed by the social partners means that there must be a redistribution between companies for the benefit of companies which take responsibility for creating a sufficient number of work placements. The individual companies have the freedom to decide for themselves whether they want the financial benefit of creating more internships. In short, we are doing this for the sake of young people, for the future of young people. There is no point in us sighing for more skilled people in the future if we do not at the same time put action behind words and create solutions to the challenges that exist. Thank you for the discussions we have had in this Chamber today. I look forward to any questions that may be raised during the committee procedure. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122140623	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Education Committee. Are there any comments? It has been adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20171122140638	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday 23 November 2017, at 10:00 p.m. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
