ParlaMint-DK_20171107130020	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107130024	I give the floor to the Prime Minister for an introductory statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107130032	Thank you, Madam President. I am very much looking forward to this Question Time I always do, but especially this one, because it is actually the first one we have in this parliamentary year. So it is good to get started, also with that, based on that it is also going well in Denmark. It's actually going pretty well. Growth has bitten, unemployment is low, employment is high, and now it is about giving the recovery both altitude and flight length, making sure to use the favourable times sensibly, and so we do. Actually, we're moving pretty fast. Since last Question Time we have agreed with the Danish People's Party to lower registration fees so that more families can replace the old car with a new one that is safer. At the same time, we have agreed to lower the ticket price on Storebælt, so that Denmark will be better connected, expand the Funen motorway and thus create better mobility, more opportunities. We have made a broad agreement to strengthen our day-to-day offer so that there will be better opportunities to take care of those children who are having a hard time and who need a push on their backs from childhood. All children deserve a good start, and we must give them that. We have brought together all parties behind a reform of the preparatory offers, so that young people who find it difficult to move forward after primary school are now given a more coherent offer instead of the jungle of arrangements that meet them now. We've done that because we're gonna have to bring everyone with us. Together with the Danish People's Party, we have agreed to strengthen the climate effort by allocating 1 billion. kr. extra for solar and wind energy to ensure that Denmark can remain what we are, namely a leading climate nation. We have reinforced the safety net under the elderly with another agreement, which is also put in place by all parties: an agreement to prevent bankruptcies in home care, because when this happens and it has happened too often to many older citizens in their daily lives and in their quality of life, neither the elderly nor we as a society can live with it. So we have been getting a lot out of hand since we had Question Time last, and right now we are in the process of financial law negotiations. The first agreements are in place, both sub-contracts under the rate pool and an agreement on the research reserve. In the last one, we're gonna set up 1⁄2 billion. kr. next year, which will strengthen both free research and research on health, welfare, the environment, ecology and energy. So political work is under way, and this is not just the case here in the Folketing. Nine days ago, we concluded another tripartite agreement with the social partners, the third in line since the parliamentary elections. The first two were, of course, strengthening integration and more internships, and now the third agreement, which contains initiatives in the field of adult and continuing training for 2.5 billion. kr., a significant investment in the people who today have the least education; they are better equipped for the future. It is an agreement that concerns many people all over the country, and it is an agreement that at the same time pictures how the government solves the problems, leading the country through broad agreements. So I would like to take this opportunity today to thank the trade union movement and employers for again proving that tripartite agreements are possible. It's not a dead instrument. It can be done if you try, if you have the skills. Thanks to everyone who has played out there and thanks to everyone who is playing in this Chamber, a special thanks to the Danish People's Party for good recording and constructive cooperation. After all, the fact that things are going well does not shake the fact that there is not much left to do. There are criminal youths in which the government has put forward a proposal for a special effort with a special young age and a special targeted criminal care for young people. There are the squashed gangs that the police are struggling with and where we have given the police many new instruments, and some of them we still owe it to us to deliver on here in the Folketing. It is not a criticism, and it is just that legislative work takes time. There are, in particular, the criminal foreigners that we need to send out of Denmark to a greater extent. This last point will be highlighted when we take over the Presidency of the Council of Europe next week. So I look forward, on the basis of many agreements, to more good agreements in the coming days, and right now, and here I look forward to 10 seconds from the end of my speech, that we will have a good and constructive Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107130534	There were still three seconds left, so thank you for that. We now move on to questions from the party leaders. The questioner and the Prime Minister both have up to 2 minutes' speaking time, then follow two follow-up questions where the questioner and the Prime Minister each have 1 minute's speaking time. It is first Mrs Mette Frederiksen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107130558	First of all, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for the fine list of political achievements that has been made on a cross-cutting basis. Unfortunately, the Prime Minister did not find room to talk about our older people, so I would like to spend some time on that, because it is a group that is very close to us in the Social Democratic Party, and that is also what the municipal election campaign is very much about. I will come back to that because before then I have a few specific questions about the ongoing gang dispute. I think it is totally unacceptable that the gangs have been allowed to bite themselves so well in our Danish society. We agree on this here at Christiansborg. The police are doing a good job out there, but many people are seeing a lack of police on the street, shot in our capital, two people have now lost their lives, and insecurity is widespread in many places. We've made a gang package, and it's really good, and the Attorney General is now looking into the possibility of completely banning, among other things. Loyal to Familia, and it's really, really positive. At the same time, however, I also feel that here at Christiansborg we must do everything we can to get rid of the gangs and ensure the safety of the Danes, and that is why we are proposing today as something quite specific that it should be possible to give the gangs a restraining order and that the police should be able to prohibit the gangs from staying if they pose a threat to the rest of us. When we are concerned about getting rid of the gangs in public space, it is because it is precisely when they are many together that they are threatening. Actually, I don't think they're very strong separately, but when they're standing there with their backmarks and their hoodies, they look dangerous and they're all of us. So we want to go further. I understand that in this way the Left welcomes the proposal and I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister's position and also whether we can start negotiations so that we can give the police another tool in the toolbox.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107130805	Thank you. Then it's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107130807	Thank you. I very much agree with Mrs Mette Frederiksen that it is unacceptable that the gang dispute should have been settled. In this statement is also that it is not something that has just happened over the summer here, because it is something that has been going on for a long time, where we have apparently failed as a society to get our foot down hard. This may be so much the case in the preventive action here in Copenhagen, and this is the case with the tools that the police have had at their disposal. That is why I am also pleased that, under the leadership of this government, we have taken a number of very concrete initiatives, such as: It has meant that we could contain the developments we saw, where there were smaller police in Copenhagen over a number of years, that we are now in a development where we have invested more in the police, have relieved the police, both by political advocacy and by defence, so that there are now more police resources, just as in the gang package in the spring and additional initiatives here after the summer holidays we have given the police additional tools. Some of them, then, are not yet in place in terms of legislation. One of the things I look forward to myself and which we have agreed to, but which we have yet to adopt, is the possibility that a judgment as a condition of release may require a person not to return to the place of production. I think that will be a very, very strong instrument. This morning I have also quickly informed myself in Jyllands-Posten about the ideas of the Social Democratic Party, and of course we would like to discuss them with the Social Democratic Party. It contains some issues, and that makes it obvious, among other things. Because the gang register which, if necessary, should be the basis for giving a restraining order is an internal police tool; it is not a register where, as a starting point, if you are standing in it, you can have the accuracy of standing there. So there are a number of issues. But my own approach to this is that, with respect for the Constitution and democratic rules and freedoms, which we must remember to safeguard, even in difficult times, we must be prepared to try new things. So I would like to sign off on the fact that the Social Democratic Party is involved in the debate here with a political proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107131026	Thank you. Then there are follow-up questions and there is one minute's speaking time. Here you go, Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107131032	Well, of course, this proposal also raises some legal questions. It has become a basic condition for us here in Christiansborg to deal with, not least, foreign criminals, the fight against terrorism and gang crime, that there has been a raison d'être, a readiness to violence and an indifference towards other people who are forcing all of us in Christiansborg to think in new ways when it comes to legal policy. Whether it is about being able to expel criminal foreigners, or it is about fighting terrorism, or whether we are concerned here with combating gang crime, there will often be questions about the constitution and international conventions. And that is something we must take with our eyes open, because it goes without saying that the constitution must be observed. But we must also be able to look the Danes in the eye and guarantee them that we take care of their safety and security. So it is positive that the Prime Minister welcomes the proposal. My follow-up question is: will negotiations be convened so that we can have a gang restraining order tested, also in a slightly broader parliamentary context, and hopefully get it adopted?
ParlaMint-DK_20171107131139	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107131142	The government has a Minister of Justice, as all previous governments have had. And what characterises this Minister of Justice is that he has acted on this gang conflict, that is, decisively and consistently. And it's my particular opinion that he's not done with it. So I have a picture that the Minister of Justice's door is open to the parliamentary political parties. We are currently in a process of financial law where, of course, the rapporteurs of legal policy are also in dialogue with the Minister for Justice for other reasons. Among other things: We are currently negotiating a new multi-annual agreement on criminal justice. So I think this is the right place to take it up, and I am quite sure that the Minister for Justice will be prepared to discuss that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107131227	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107131229	We'll do that. And then I go back to where I started asking class here. Of course, I was a little sad that the Prime Minister did not find the opportunity to address something very close to my heart, which is of great concern to the Social Democrats, namely our elderly. We have good care for the elderly in many places in Denmark. But then there are also places where it is challenged, where there are not enough staff, and where I think there is a great loss of dignity when, for example, one finds that there is a great loss of dignity. cannot be allowed to be washed or bathe, or suffer from a loneliness, because those who come to your home simply do not have time to get talked properly. That is why I think, just at the end of the day, that we should have a chance to reverse the upcoming election campaign and, at the very least, the public economy. So I would really like to ask the Prime Minister if it is not true that if we from Christiansborg do not ensure proper public growth, then the municipalities will not be able to keep up with the fact that fortunately there will be more older people. And then it will mean savings on some of them and for some of those who have actually built this country.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107131339	Here you go. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107131341	When I did not mention the area of the elderly in my first speech, it was because I had dedicated my speech just to take stock of what we have been getting out of hand since we had asked hours last. And in relation to resources for the municipalities, we have to some extent taken care of it in the past, because we have made economic agreements with the municipalities under this government, which has added more money to the municipalities, which has increased the service framework of the municipalities, which is in stark contrast to what we saw in the years when Mrs Mette Frederiksen sat in government, when it was agreed that the service framework should be reduced. And then it's interesting that now the reign is over and you're in opposition, and then there's got to be money back on the table. There was no such thing in those years when Mrs Mette Frederiksen himself was in government. I am pleased to be Prime Minister of a government that has carried out a dignified billionaire, and that has also increased the service framework for the municipalities in other respects, because I also want the municipalities to be left with an opportunity to solve the tasks in the area of the elderly in a proper way. Does this, then, mean that the municipalities must also have a future economy for this? Yes, of course it will be that way. Then it is also important that the municipalities spend the money properly, and that is what the municipal elections are all about. Because it has to be said in all tranquillity that some municipalities perform that task significantly better than others. And it is not just a question of how much money is available in each municipality. It is also very much a question of the skill with which they are used.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107131506	Thank you. The first question is closed. Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107131513	Thank you for that, President. And thank you to the Prime Minister for the introduction. I need to figure out this new shit like that! There was a list of the many agreements made, and that's fine. There is, of course, one agreement that we would like to see reached at some point, and that is in relation to the many citizens who have come to Denmark from abroad. After all, we have had quite a lot of citizens for Denmark from countries particularly in the Middle East and North Africa, and we have had that for decades, but we have also received it in particular in recent years, among others. As a result of the conflict in Syria. I can also see in the electoral ads that the Left places here during the municipal election campaign that there is a lot of focus on how these people are integrated and get out and get jobs etc. I can understand that. If they get to work, the cost is less than it is if they are on public support. One really writes in one of the ads that over 80%. of the married couples, e.g. is on cash benefits in Denmark, is with no Western background. So there are huge costs to it. But another way to tackle this is to ensure that if you come to Denmark and have a temporary stay, which you get, if you get asylum, it is also really temporary, so you eventually come back to your homeland and help rebuild your homeland. And this part of the agreement and this part of the political work I think is completely absent from the government's work. And I would certainly like to do my best to have it taken up on the government's agenda to ensure that we also get started with the fact that you are actually in Denmark temporarily and come home and build up your homeland when the opportunity is for that. So I will take the question time here today to get the Prime Minister's proposal on how we can get started and how we can ensure that when you come to Denmark and apply for asylum and have asylum, but then have the opportunity to return to your homeland and help rebuild your homeland, then you also come back to your homeland and help rebuild your homeland.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107131723	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107131725	Thank you. First of all, may I not say that I do not think that the two things, that is, working when you are here, and returning when there is peace in your country, should be put before each other. I have the view that when people are here, they have to work. There's no alternative to that. If we give rooms to people who are going to be here for a number of years, give them asylum, then they have to earn their own money. Because if they do not earn their own money, some others will have to earn it, and then it will pressure our service costs, that is, it is the elderly who have to pay in terms of inferior welfare, or it is the Danes, the hard-working Danes, who have to pay more in taxes. So my basic view is that when people are here, they must work, and I am delighted that they are doing so increasingly, and that the tripartite agreement we have made has succeeded with the integration benefit we have made together and the 225-hour rule; all the pressure we have put on the municipalities also means that the municipalities today declare much more labour market preparation than they did just a year ago, and that, as a result, more people have also started to earn their own money. Having said that, I also agree that as long as you have not had a permanent stay in Denmark, it is therefore a temporary stay and then the charge is that you should return. There, moreover, we have historically, as can be seen in the books, several times together, both this government and the previous government in which I have participated, made various arrangements to promote repatriation. And we are happy to have a discussion with the Danish People's Party about whether we can go further along that track. We can do that in the current financial law negotiations, if it is of interest, or we can do it at a different and later stage. One of the things we've already marked we're going to talk about later in this parliamentary year is the rules of citizenship, i.e. the conditions for becoming a citizen and obtaining, you could say, the ultimate connection with Denmark, where you still don't have this repatriation aim. And if it is a wish from the Danish People's Party to speak repatriation in relation to those who are not going to be in Denmark for the rest of their lives, then we are happy to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107131931	Here you go, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107131933	It certainly is. The truth is that there is a full focus on the integration work, which is full focus on how to give people who come here and are themselves here on a temporary basis as a refugee or a family reunion, the right to benefit, which is full focus on how children can learn Danish, how they can get out into football clubs and play football, so there is a full focus on supporting what people come to Denmark for, virtually all of them, namely to be in Denmark forever. There is full focus on that. But there is very little focus on what ensures that people actually return. When there are hundreds of thousands of people now returning to Syria... Syria is not a very nice country, but there are hundreds of thousands we think it is quite natural to return. People must return to Raqqa. There are reports in the media about how people now return to areas in Raqqa where their homes have been bombed, but where there is no alternative for them to return. After all, they are the resourceless, those who did not have the opportunity to come to Denmark. Can the Prime Minister just explain to me why an Syrian from Raqqa who has come to Denmark, perhaps even using a smuggler, is not exactly the same as people living in refugee camps around Syria who are returning to Raqqa now, of course also having to return to Raqqa? We must ensure that they actually do so so that they can help to rebuild their homeland on an equal footing with those countrymen who otherwise must also return, but only from the refugee camps instead of from Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107132058	Thank you. Then it's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107132100	As long as you fulfil, you can say, the conditions for having asylum status in Denmark, then you have asylum status in Denmark. And then my starting point is... and it's so different from Mr. Knox. Kristian Thulesen Dahls, I can hear that we are also not a member of the same party that then you should contribute to Denmark, because the unspoken alternative that lies behind it, namely that it would probably be best that they did not earn their own money, best if they were not part of Danish society, because then their encouragement to return home quickly would probably increase, is not a useful alternative. If, according to our own adopted laws, people have asylum status in Denmark, then they have asylum status in Denmark, and then they have to earn their own money themselves, otherwise they will displace the service and welfare and burden the Danes who were here already, and I will not be a part of that. So that's one thing. The other is about: shall we have people back home? Yeah, we are. When their place of residence falls away, they must return home. That is also why, in these years, we are trying to tighten up our efforts here, too, with regard to people who do not have a residence in Denmark. That is also why, on several occasions, we have strengthened, it can be said, the positive incentive to return home through various repatriation schemes, and what I am saying here is that we are happy to discuss this. We would like to help develop more of the kind of offers and measures that will ensure that people are encouraged to go home.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107132229	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107132231	Historically, we can see that 22 integration plans, I think it is now, have been well-intentioned and of course wanted to do exactly what the Prime Minister says, i.e. to make people self-supporting, etc., and we can see that very many especially non-western immigrants are in Denmark. The Ministry of Finance has calculated in the spring that it costs 33 billion. kr. for the public funds per year. Boom! It is quite a round when we also want better care for the elderly and we want better schools, childcare, more police officers and all the other things. So we have to do something else, something new, and there are a lot of words about integration, but what I miss a little with the Prime Minister is: what is it other than that we are discussing an amount that we can get to repatriate? Well, what's it gonna be to make sure people actually come home? If we now agree that hundreds of thousands of people are returning to their territories in Syria, then let us take Raqqa as an example. We have seen in the media that Raqqa is being liberated, and there are reports of how Syrians now return to Raqqa, and then they stand there in front of their bombed homes. Why should the Syrians from Raqqa who have come to Denmark not stand in the same way in front of his home and then of course have help from Denmark, help from Denmark to rebuild it home? But why is it not as natural as the return of refugees from refugee camps to Raqqa? That's what I find so hard to understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107132350	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107132351	I'd like to say to Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl: We have jointly taken responsibility for tightening up legislation in relation to the possibility of permanent residence, i.e. to reach the situation where one can say that one has been in Denmark for so long, that one can now stay, even if the circumstances at home have actually become so favourable that everything else might just as well go home. We have tightened that up several times, and we are happy to discuss whether more should be done. What I am just saying again is that if you are in Denmark for a temporary stay, that is to say you have not yet had your permanent stay, and the conditions in the country from which you have fled, at the time when your temporary stay is to be extended, have improved so much that you can go home, then you have to go home. That is why we have extended the time limit for being here permanently. Then there may be situations where the permanent stay has been granted, but where you can be motivated to go home anyway, and we would be happy to contribute to that, i.e. whether we can improve the repatriation arrangements. And then there is the situation that applies until then, namely that you are in Denmark on a legal basis, which we ourselves have given by the strict laws we have adopted ourselves, and then you have to work, and then you have to earn your own money. For the alternative to that is that we are going to create enormous pressure on our welfare societies. That's how I look at it. That is why it is different elements of the same matter and we are prepared to discuss them.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107132510	Thank you to the questioner and Prime Minister. And then it's sir. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107132525	Thank you. I know there are a few more months to go, but I have started thinking about my New Year's resolution, and I have not yet made such a decision. Well, the classic used to be a diet, but I've had it on the program for a lot of years in a row, so I might have to try something new. It's gonna be exciting to see what I'm gonna decide. But a good joint New Year's resolution for us in the Folketing seems to me that we were a little more consistent with the signals we send to the people. For example: There is a great deal of talk here about narrownecks in the public sector and how much still needs to be saved. When it comes to people affected by illness or unemployment, there are no limits to how precise politicians can be, but when it comes to the salaries of mayors around the municipalities, one suddenly does not care very much whether they get 1 or 1.5 million. kr. to do their job. And that is actually a bit strange, because the reality is that in many cases the mayors of the country receive double pay. They are already quite well paid, and on top of their salary they are paid for board posts and other duties which are part of the mayor's job. The Salaries Commission recommended an end to this double wage, in exchange for the mayor's salary being raised. The majority at Christiansborg had actually given each other a hand to follow the Commission's recommendations, yet the majority of the Danish Parliament's parties chose to raise the mayor's salary without removing the double salaries. I think that is actually a little thought-provoking. I know that this is not the big amount in the overall national accounts, and I have no doubt that many mayors are doing a great deal of work, but it is of course important what kind of signal we as politicians send to the citizens, to the Danes. So I would like to ask the Prime Minister: is it not a strange signal to send to the Danes that the mayors of the country should receive double pay while there is a narrow tail in the public sector?
ParlaMint-DK_20171107132737	Thank you. And here you go to the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107132739	Thank you. After all, I was sitting all over the first half of the warming and looking forward to being asked now to make my bid on what kind of New Year's resolution Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen was supposed to take care of himself, but when I wasn't asked, I'm gonna stop bidding. There's this picture that there's a narrow neck in the public sector, while there's such a heavy charge. I think that some nuances are missing in the picture. Well, in my optics, there's no narrowneck in the public sector. We have a public sector which probably fills something that looks like a quarter of the economy, in other words, in relation to public consumption. It's really, really big. So, quite frankly, I think you have to go back to the 1980s to find a public sector as large as the one we have now, in relative terms. And then there is something about terminology when you say that someone gets double pay. No, they don't. Well, I don't know any mayors out there who get their mayor's bell twice; I don't. They get a mayor's bill for being mayor, which we have laid down by law in here, and then I can see that there are some mayors who, alongside their mayor's job, have taken on various board posts for which they are paid a fee. So if we were finally to get into this discussion, I guess it should be a discussion about how many different tasks can be solved. And if you look at it a little differently in the municipalities, when you have to make up for these municipal elections that are about to take place, then you could distribute the jobs that are a little wider. But to this extent there is no wonder that you are paid to do your job and that if you take on another job you will also receive a fee for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107132927	Thank you. Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107132930	First in relation to the matter of resources: well, I think there are a lot of relatives of the elderly who have had to lie for a whole night with wet diapers, who think that there is actually a lack of resources in our welfare around and who do not feel covered by the picture that the Prime Minister is trying to draw from the government's priorities in the field of welfare. And the fact is that the government is underfunding the welfare of the demographic development that we see. Then the Prime Minister says it's perfectly reasonable for the mayors to get these double salaries. The reality is that the reason they're in these positions and they're in these positions is because they're lifting their job as mayor. And what the Salaries Commission recommended was the raising of salaries and the removal of double salaries. The Folketing chose to raise wages without removing double wages. Is this really a fair use of taxpayers' money?
ParlaMint-DK_20171107133034	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107133036	I'm a little attacking that expression of double pay if you're going to go nuanced into it. Because if it is for the economy that we are going to spend some tax dollars paying some fees that we could otherwise have spent on something else, one certainly has to take the nuance in it with that it might be a post for which another council member had been elected if the mayor had not been elected to it and that would trigger a fee. Then there is no saving linked to the choice of a city council member other than the mayor. So, that's why I'm attacking this dual-pay terminology and saying that there may be a discussion for the municipal councils out there about how few hands you hold these different jobs, which are kind of triggered by the municipalities, not so much on the basis of such a jante law view, or what else you could spend the money on, but more like: how much can a single person promise? But I think this is a debate that must take place in the individual municipality. As far as the Folketing is concerned, I can just say that it is absolutely right that a commission was set up that came up with a proposal. And it is just as true that there was a very broad majority in the Danish Parliament who chose to make a comprehensive political package, and I feel that as Prime Minister I also feel covered by elements that were taken along and elements that were not taken along, and that a completely proven pay gap was observed, which has been out with the mayors for a long time.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107133159	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107133203	It is quite true that the municipal councils can choose to depart from the rules laid down by the Folketing. This has been done in the municipality of Aalborg, for example. But it is here in the Folketing that it has been decided to make exactly the decision that you set up the mayors' salaries without making up for the double salaries that they could raise next to. After all, there are many who have a job in our well-being that makes a real, really great effort and who experience that there is a narrow neck and that they work under difficult conditions. I do not think they can be thought about walking and thinking that it is a little interesting and a little funny that there is apparently no narrowneck at all at the top of the municipalities. And in the end, I would like to hear from the Prime Minister what the Prime Minister will say to them.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107133302	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107133304	Well, there's more to it than that. And now allow me to try to answer the question seriously. If it is the case that the position for which the mayor is elected is not qua his mayor's post, but where it is the city council that has to elect one into a utility company, then what is achieved by not choosing the mayor, but choosing another city council member, is not a saving. Well, it's that the fees then fall on some other hands. It's one type of discussion. The second discussion is the discussion in which they say: it is the mayor's post, that is, it follows the office of mayor, and you cannot choose anyone else. There I have much more sympathy for the view that then you are paid for it once. Well, then this is just a nuance. And that is why I just want to say that I think we should think about in the individual municipalities also with the signal that we send to our local people. So it has to be part of the answer to those who sit out there. There are municipal elections now. It's November 21, unless you've voted for a letter, and even if you've voted for a letter, you can change it. Well, everyone has an opportunity to go up and vote on 21 November, precisely based on the set of values you have. And if you are unhappy with the way the mayor acts or a majority of the municipal council acts, you have to choose some others. Well, it's the strongest weapon we have in our hands in this democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107133422	Thank you to the questioner and thank you to the Prime Minister. Then it's mr. Uffe Elbæk, the alternative, next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107133433	I really liked the new political project that Nikolaj Villumsen started with, namely to talk about his New Year's resolution. I'm on it. It may be that we're gonna have to date each other with this, i.e. how much we can lose in the new year, and it may be that we can get the Prime Minister to join the team that will show up. I'd like to lose a few pounds, I'd like to admit it blankly. What I want to discuss with the Prime Minister is actually the municipal elections. What are we experiencing out there? What are we told when we are out in the debates that we are out in right now? I know that the Prime Minister is around, I know that all the other party leaders are around the municipalities at the moment, out to talk to the citizens. I'm on a tour of the country myself for the next few weeks. It is a wonderful country, as the Prime Minister has said over and over again. Denmark is wonderful, and there are lots of hopes out there, lots of commitment, but there is also something that goes again. Now I have only toured Jutland thinly the first week, but one of the things that goes back is that you hear a concern about the whole centralisation. Where does power lie, not only between citizens and city councils, but also between the municipality and the state? This is something that the Prime Minister, if any, has had close to, because he played an important role in relation to the municipal reform. I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether the concern I hear in the country about centralisation, the distance between citizens and politicians is a concern that the Prime Minister also feels and hears, and if the Prime Minister does so, what does the Prime Minister think about the feedback from the citizens out there?
ParlaMint-DK_20171107133620	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107133622	Thank you. I was probably not fully aware of what was happening when suddenly such a collective consensus broke out on what New Year's resolution we were going to take on, but we have to take that up afterwards. If it was about talking better to each other and not about the weight, I would like to participate and also invite Uffe Elbæk to join the project, when I consider what has been of incidences lately with fake news and other things from that edge. In relation to the municipal elections, I must say that I am primarily experiencing a great deal of optimism out there. Last week I was on Ærø, on Læsø, on Samsø, some of the smallest municipalities we have Læsø is the smallest, and I experienced a great optimism, a great pleasure at a new parliamentary majority, which has created some opportunities that were not on that island before: a road principle that makes transport easier to handle, that you can start exporting out of the island, an agricultural and food package that offers opportunities for business development, an agriculture minister, in this context a fisheries minister who intervened when EU directives were on the way to making fishing possible around Læsø. That was a great joy to me. Why am I saying this? I do, of course, because in this matter of feelings and closeness there is also some policy. For some of the examples I give here, for example. with the agricultural and food package, the way we dealt with the EU Fisheries Directive, is not written in the book of the Alternative. But it is experienced in this specific municipality, which may in fact be measured by geography and transport and smallness, is one of the most vulnerable, as something positive. So I also take down this wish that the municipalities want something, I think we all do, and then it may be that our recipes for what to do about it will turn out to be different.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107133833	Thank you. Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107133834	The Prime Minister is well aware that some of the things mentioned by the Prime Minister can be well supported, for example, that it must be as cheap to make a ferry to the islands as to drive on motorways. But there is no doubt that some of the things mentioned here by the Prime Minister would be much greener if it were the party programme of the alternative that was unfolded. But that's actually not what I asked. I asked about that concern, which I certainly hear in the country, about a distance between citizens and politicians, whether it is the citizens and the city council, or it is the citizens and us in here at Christiansborg. That's what I was asking about. There is no doubt that the alternative would wish that there were far greater degrees of freedom for the municipalities. There is a hell of a difference between Ringkøbing-Skjern Municipality, or it is the City of Copenhagen, so my first question is: How do we support a greater degree of freedom for individual municipalities? The second is that if you looked in the long term, Prime Minister, if the Prime Minister looked 10 years ahead, does the Prime Minister think that the municipalities have gained greater degrees of freedom than they have today, or less?
ParlaMint-DK_20171107133946	May I just say that we have to take care of what we call cheating words. They are not so good to hear in the Assembly Hall either. And that was for Mr. Uffe Elbæk, it wasn't for the PM. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107134000	I'm not even familiar with the concept of cheat words and now I totally lost it here. After all, the question went on and I appeal to the President's sense of justice when it comes to measuring seconds now whether we have more or less centralism in 10 years' time. Can the municipalities more have more self-determination? Well, that depends on the majority that sits in here. We have liberalised the planning law. We would have liked to have liberalised the planning law more. I think that some of those who were concerned that we liberalized it are people with the same political impetus as Mr. Uffe Elbæk, when it comes to nature and conservation, and what you really have to do out there. So that depends on the policy being pursued in here. I have no doubt at all that we are basically facing a social development which, if we approach it properly, creates decentralized opportunities. Now I mentioned Læsø before, and soon Læsø may be the first island in the world to have fibernets, and what this entails of opportunities for you to settle on Læsø, perhaps not permanently, but sporadic. We are going to live longer and we are working hard to ensure that our pensioners, as they are most, have a decent standard of living when they leave. I met a former ambassador at Ærø. Well, I think that the future offers a great many opportunities for us to ensure that there is life in all parts of Denmark. At least that's what we're working for.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107134136	Here you go, sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107134137	I think I'm gonna go up to one hour with the president and find out what that fucking gang word was. I'll have to find out, but we'll take that at another time. One of the things I was really happy about when both the Prime Minister and myself were at the UN General Assembly in September this year was the Prime Minister's initiative in bringing together a number of cities and countries on a green agenda. Now the Prime Minister is going down to COP23 in Bonn, I expect, and there is the question that our members are asking the Prime Minister. It is the tradition of the Members who are asking the questions now what the Prime Minister is hoping for COP23. Well, what does Denmark want there? How do we ensure that we take the climate challenges really seriously? After all, there are many who say that we only have 3 years to get Denmark and the world on course when it comes to ensuring that we keep global warming within these 2 degrees, so what are the Prime Minister's hopes in relation to COP23?
ParlaMint-DK_20171107134247	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107134248	Thank you. I am not going to COP23 myself, which is then settled in Bonn, and that is not because I found out that it was in Bonn and not in Fiji. But I don't want that to happen to the Minister of Energy. On the other hand, I am going down to the meeting that Macron will be holding on 12 December, which is, of course, about ensuring that this dossier continues to have an international momentum, also in a situation where the United States has decided that they will withdraw from the agreements. That is why I want to say specifically with regard to COP23 that I think there are two important things. One is to show that this case therefore has international momentum also in a situation where the President of the United States has initiated a procedure to withdraw the United States. That is self-important. It's a signal to the rest of the world to hold on. The second important thing is, of course, to get delivered on the things that hang from the COP held in Paris where the agreement was concluded. And some of the things that hang are really a bit boring, but important: how to measure and weigh and follow up in a uniform and rigorous and consistent way. Because if this is gonna move out of the real world, it's not enough just to formulate goals. Then it is all about developing in concrete terms the methods to ensure that we also achieve the objectives we have set.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107134414	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107134422	Now, of course, we're in the middle of some kind of campaign, but I'm gonna miss the chance to just throw myself into pulling it in here anyway. Instead, I would like to pay tribute to the tripartite agreement that has been drawn up and which, I think, has opened up in a good and constructive way one of the major challenges: how to ensure continuous continuing training and upgrading of the Danes at a time when we are experiencing a constantly changing labour market. I can have my doubts as to whether that is enough, that is to say whether what is going on is sufficiently far-reaching, but it should not be short of the rose in order to secure some first steps, and we must do what we can to back it up. Because I believe that when the Prime Minister now says that the challenge is to ensure that the good times persist and last for a long time, it is important to bear in mind that the crucial condition is, of course, whether there are people available. This is the case in the welfare institutions, where we have heard earlier today discussions about the care of the elderly, which are already marked by a lack of hands to care for the elderly, regardless of what ambitions one might have for more. And this is very much the case in the private sector, where both those who work in domestic industry, for example. in the construction sector, say no to orders, and in the export sector, which is already deeply hampered by labour shortages. That is why I think that the most important thing we should concentrate on here is how we can invest in each other, how we can ensure that there are sufficient people available for both the private sector's work and production and the public sector's challenges in providing labour. And I would just like to ask the Prime Minister: what initiatives does the government intend to take to ensure that we do not run out of people, both in public institutions and in the private sector, which is already suffering?
ParlaMint-DK_20171107134622	Thank you. Then it's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107134624	Thank you. First of all, thank you for the nice words about the tripartite agreement. I kind of agree with Mr. Simpson. Morten Østergaard in that it is not given that it is fully the sufficient response to everything I would like to say. It is also for this reason that, as a little new, we have chosen to make a four-year tripartite agreement, so we are making sure that this area is to be visited again. I would like to say this quite openly. There is also the fact that there is not just such a quick answer to how we are going to solve the challenges that Mr. Morten Østergaard also outlines, and with which I agree, that the absolute greatest risk that the recovery we are in now will not be sufficient or sufficient flight altitude or length, that is to say, that we will make a splash of our stomachs at some point, is if we do not ensure that we have sufficient manpower with sufficient and proper skills. And there are several things that need to be done. That's one of them. That is why we are making this VEU agreement, in other words to ensure that people, even on the edge of the labour market, have an opportunity to acquire qualifications if there is any additional need to be able to be a relevant workforce. That is why we want to negotiate with increasing intensity a Job Reform II which follows up on some of the things we have already done, with a ceiling on cash benefits and integration benefits and a 225-hour rule which shows that it is working. We have a reduction in the number of cash benefits recipients, we have the lowest number of Danes on public support we have had for 10 years, and now we must also give positive pressure to get even more people moved from passive support into the labour market. That is why together we have just reached agreement on the preparatory training provision, so that hopefully more young people who have had a little difficulty in primary school will land a little faster on their feet afterwards and will not spend years running around in opaque systems or, at worst, never land in a way that will make them part of the labour market. That is why the government has been saddened by the fact that we have been surrounded by an alternative majority which has made it more difficult for skilled foreign workers to get to. So the solution has to be found in many places. There's not only one place to find it. That is why, just before the summer break, we made an agreement in several years' time on the labour market, to see if we can get seniors to stay a little longer, what much also indicates they are doing. So it's gotta be put in everywhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107134848	Here you go, sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107134849	Well, I'm glad we see the same on the challenge. The fact that the Prime Minister then has problems in pursuing the policy one would like to pursue is, of course, the government's challenge. You have to see how long you think you're gonna stand up for that. The reality is that right now there is not a policy that is sufficient to secure that labour. I assume that is also the case with what the Prime Minister has just said. If you think that the most important thing is that the qualifications should be in order, I cannot understand why, for the third time, a draft budget has been presented, which is being negotiated during these hours, with massive savings on all education in Denmark. Fortunately, vocational training seems to be free again this year. I think there was neither a majority in the Folketing nor a really around the table in the trialogue negotiations. But the government's probably gonna try again next year. Why would one suddenly quit? But all the other educations have to save. An educational ceiling is met with young people. That is why my question with the financial law negotiations that are under way is this: was it not time, if it is the qualifications that are important, to put the savings on training aside completely and find another way to finance the good gifts with lower registration fees and such things?
ParlaMint-DK_20171107134959	Here you go. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107135001	But I think I said that it is about having enough people with the right qualifications. So it is not just a question of qualifications; it is not just a question of numbers. This is about: Are there enough people in Denmark who, under the conditions that we are offering, are ready to offer their labour and who have the skills needed for it to be in demand for this recovery to last? That's why it's not just a single place to go. Then I can hear that this productivity requirement is running again. I just have to say that we spend an historic amount of money on education. We educate historically many people. Yes, then we also have a demand for efficiency. But it's the whole Cabal that has to go up. One of the ways in which we want to ensure that more people make their labour available is that it should pay better to work. That is why we have created a ceiling on cash benefits, integration benefit, 225-hour rule; that is why we want to invest something in tax cuts targeted at people with small labour incomes. There is also an economy attached to it. The money can only, yes, be used once. So we're going all the way around. I do not agree with the picture that is being drawn that the government cannot get through with its policy. Well, the government can't get through with its policy one to one, but on all parameters we move Denmark the right way. That is why there are more than 100,000 more private jobs. That is why we have the lowest number on public support for 10 years. That is why, in the past year alone, we have moved 13,000 people out of cash aid.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107135129	Thank you. Here you go, sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107135132	I just do not know where it is that the Prime Minister finds a point of reference for some of the challenges listed to be well solved with savings in education, regardless of where you find occasion to do so. But then let us take another of the themes that the Prime Minister points to. I hear the Prime Minister say over and over again that it is a pity that there will be no easier access for foreign workers. Now we are negotiating a business package these days, and if we agree that the biggest challenge is whether there is enough labour, why does the government not play out to improve conditions to attract foreign labour? I am glad that the research tax scheme was part of the government's proposal, but that is not enough in relation to what is there. Then I know that the Prime Minister will say: well, we can't get through with that. But I think it is crucial that not only we, because we have played out with a ten-point plan, but also the government, come out of the sand and tell people what it really is that we should be doing in this area to address the very concrete and acute problem, that right now companies are saying no to orders because they cannot get the people they need. It will ultimately cost Danish jobs if entire companies move out to find a place where they can get the manpower needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107135241	Here you go. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107135244	First there was one question, and then there was one point in the question which actually ended the question. Because we have proposed things. We have precisely proposed that the researcher tax scheme we have, which is a 5-year scheme, be extended so that it becomes a 7-year scheme, so that, as highly specialised workers, you can be in Denmark for not only 5 years, but 7 years on terms that make Denmark attractive. So it is true that the government was voted down in the sense that there was a majority around the government that raised the limit of what to earn in order to have to work in Denmark. We were voted down on that. We voted against. We're sorry. We are sorry, but it is just a fact that there is that majority. It's sad because it wasn't a wise decision. That is why, at the moment, I am fighting to strike the balance that I believe is absolutely necessary, namely to pursue a strict and consistent immigration policy, where we meet those who are not really supposed to be in Denmark with toughness and consistency and have the figures brought down • we now have the lowest number of asylum seekers we have had since 2009 • to create space for us to have the second discussion as well. For Denmark has to be a country that is closed to those who cannot and will, and which is consistent there, but, on the other hand, still has an internationally open labour market. I think so, sir. Morten Østergaard and I look the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107135410	Thank you. That's the end of the question. The last question is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107135419	Thank you. It is no surprise that the Danes are going to the polls in exactly two weeks' time today. There are two important choices, our municipal elections and our regional elections, and this is of course about hospitals, kindergartens, care for the elderly, nature conservation, help for the unemployed and much, much more. It is about the development of citizens' welfare, the protection of our immediate environment and the safety net in our welfare societies. So these are important choices. I do not think it is a surprise that I naturally hope that the Danish map will be painted red again, that the Danes choose welfare rather than tax relief, and that the Danes stick to a Denmark that is connected, where we set foot in relation to the erosion and centralisation of welfare. But local politics is not independent of what happens at Christiansborg. That is why I would also like to ask the Prime Minister two very specific challenges I have experienced in my days on the roads in the country. The first is from Lemvig, and the second is from Lolland. People in West Jutland are seriously concerned that one of the next great storms, which we know will hit Denmark, will flush the poison depot at Harboøre Tange at Thyborøn directly into the sea. They have seen how the storm Bodil and other 100-year storms have had major consequences for what is called polite 42, where the sea slowly eats itself further and further up the coast. I've been to courtesy 42 myself several times and was there as late as yesterday. The depot is now completely surrounded by water, and it doesn't take much for the water to get behind the depot and rip the depot at sea. That is why I would like to ask the Prime Minister: does the Prime Minister think that it is justifiable to leave the poison depot at polite 42?
ParlaMint-DK_20171107135608	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107135610	I mean, sometimes I get short-lived too, but I have to say I don't have enough ready knowledge to discuss courtesy 42. I have to say this quite openly. In connection with the coastal protection challenges that Denmark has, and which are also updated by the fact that we have climate change, we have visited all the issues several times, and we have done so most recently in the municipal economic negotiations this summer, where it was a theme, that is, more generally, and where there has also been a resource boost. Where it puts us precisely with regard to polite 42 and the responsibilities associated with it, I do not regret that very much enough detail to discuss. This must be taken with the relevant Secretary of State, and otherwise we will have to return to it at a time when I have dressed up to discuss it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107135706	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107135708	I understand that the Prime Minister cannot be involved in all cases in Denmark. The Høfde 42 case is not a small matter; it is a very large pollution case in the North Sea, which has consequences also for tourism in Denmark and for fishermen in Denmark. SF has suggested that we set up a soil clean-up fund once and for all and tackle some of the major toxic pollutions in Denmark: it is Kærgård Klitplantage, it is Høfde 42, and these are some of the Collstrupgrunde, which we know are generational pollutions, and which are not just about something that the regions can fix within the set-aside framework, which is of course 450 million. kr. over a long period of time. That's why I'm preoccupied with it. I know that this is local politics, and I know that Lemvig's mayor is a Leftman and will probably be very excited about what I am saying and he may also hope that I can bring the Prime Minister along, but I also think it is an important political matter. It is also a national political matter, because it is simply about how we want our country to be forward-looking and what we leave behind for future generations.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107135812	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107135813	Of course, I do not disagree with that at all. We must take good care of our country, we must make optimal coastal protection, and we must not get poison into our waters. I agree with all that. I just have to say that when I said, as I did before, it was because when I said it, I am not here with current ready knowledge to discuss how best to deal with this specific issue, as Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr asks, in an interaction between a municipality, a region and possibly the state. Then, of course, I could choose to sit around and talk about everything and stuff, but I have my limit that ▪ regrets.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107135854	Then I am glad that I can draw the Prime Minister's attention to some of the major challenges facing people in West Jutland. I think the West Jutlanders will appreciate that as well. Now let me go to the next case, which is about Lolland. After all, the Government's own Minister for the Interior has here today answered a question that a number of municipalities choose to send their socially vulnerable citizens to other municipalities. I have just heard of an example of a citizen from the municipality of Ballerup who is being sent to the municipality of Lolland while he is in a psychiatric hospital. The person does not even know that he is being moved to Lolland Municipality, but is being moved because the municipality in question can save money. That doesn't exactly make the challenge less for Lolland Municipality. On the other hand, it contributes to a distortion of Denmark, where the individual municipalities are left with enormous challenges, both human and economic. I would just like to ask the Prime Minister in such a way in principle, not in detail, because perhaps the Prime Minister is not necessarily in the details. We saw in the question before the Prime Minister thinks that this kind of social export to the already challenged peripheral municipalities of the country is in order and whether the Prime Minister will help put an end to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107140013	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107140015	Thank you for that, thank you for the question. I think the questioner is tightening it up a little bit. Now I have said once, and perhaps for the first time in my career as Prime Minister, that there is something here that I am not required to discuss in detail. It is up to us to say this: yes, the Prime Minister generally does not know what he is talking about, but then we can ask a question of principle but okay. Can't I just say that there are some dilemmas in this? One is that in 1788, we removed the tape, and I am not in favour of it, because we must reinstate it. This means that people must have the opportunity to move around, at least as a starting point, because we have limitations, for example. for people who are granted asylum in Denmark and who, as such, have a kind of residence obligation for the first part of their time in Denmark. But people have it in general. Does this mean that the municipalities have to speculate about it, in other words, in lying around and moving people on the edge of or completely outside the labour market? No, I don't think so. I think it is inappropriate and something to stay away from, if that's what the motive is: Well, we can tilt people across the municipal border, then the problem is not ours. This is not a new issue. This is an issue that we have been working on for many years and in many different contexts. We have tried to tighten up the rules and set up reimbursement schemes and other things, and we would like to look at that in the future too. A place to do it could be to see when you have to look at later, you can say, the whole municipal economy • how it is connected and how it is offset • whether there are any handles you can turn on there. However, on the fundamental question, I hope to have given an answer based on the very limited knowledge I have on some things.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107140158	I say thank you to everyone for today's work in Question Time. There are no more rapporteurs with questions for the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107140214	Today there is the following review: Jakob Silverhøj (EL) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 27 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on increased reimbursement to municipalities for particularly expensive individual cases in the social field). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20171107140232	Are there any objections to the promotion of these requests? I consider the consent of the matter to be given. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107140332	Does anyone wish to speak? That does not seem to be the case. And since that is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107140353	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1, agreed by the committee that the draft law should be divided into two legislative proposals? The division of the bill into two legislative proposals has been adopted. The draft law referred to in A will then be put to the vote [Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Promotion of Renewable Energy]. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2-5, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. A vote will then be taken on the draft law referred to in B [Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Promotion of Renewable Energy]. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 6 and 7 members of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107140459	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107140515	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1, adopted by a majority (S, DF, V, LA and CF) on Amendment No 1. Amendment No 2, adopted by a majority (S, DF, V, LA, SF and KF), on the proposal for a Council Regulation amending Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons, to self-employed persons and to members of their families moving within the Community, Regulation (EEC) No 574/72 laying down the procedure for implementing Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons, to self-employed persons, to self-employed persons and to members of their families moving within the Community and Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons, to self-employed persons and to self-employed persons, to self-employed persons and to members of their families moving within the Community, and to members of their families moving within the Community. Amendment No 3, adopted by a majority (S, DF, V, LA and KF) Amendment No 4, adopted by a majority (S, DF, V, LA, SF and KF), on Amendment No 5, tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Democratic Alliance, on behalf of the European Democratic Alliance (S). 5, adopted by a majority (S, DF, V, LA and CF) on Amendment No 5, tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats). President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). That does not seem to be the case. Then they are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107140739	Does anyone wish to make a statement, or should the President give a singular speech all day long? This seems to be the case because no one wants to speak. That concludes the debate. We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107140810	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (ALT, RV and SF) and can be voted on. The vote will end. For the amendment 22 (EL, ALT, RV and SF) voted against 80 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 1 and No 5, submitted to and joined by the same minority, lapsed. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 3, to be elected by a majority of the Committee, with the exception of EL? It is not wanted, so it has been adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 4 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (ALT, RV and SF) and can now be voted on. The vote will end. For the amendment, 21 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 80 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), abstained from voting 0. The amendment has been rejected. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107140947	While the President is breathing, I ask all those who do not want to take part in the negotiations to leave the Chamber. This is particularly true if you want to talk to your colleagues. It is not acceptable to have to wait any longer for you to come out or stop talking, so time has passed. Can I have some quiet? Thank you. The negotiations have been opened and the first to speak is the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107141106	The motion for a resolution to be considered will require the government to introduce by the end of 2017 administratively a scheme proposed by the remuneration commission, which reduces the remuneration of mayors and regional council presidents by the sum of remuneration for other duties arising from the political mandate. The proposers refer, inter alia, to: to ensure that the remuneration of mayors and presidents of regional councils is effective per year; 1 January 2017 was increased by 31.4%. in accordance with the recommendation of the Salaries Commission, but that the increase in remuneration was made without the simultaneous implementation of another recommendation of the Salaries Commission on the reduction of the remuneration of mayors and regional councillors who perform other duties due as a result of the political office. The proposers also point out that, as a clear starting point, the remuneration of mayors and presidents of the regional councils should cover all the tasks arising from the political mandate. I would say that the government cannot support the motion for a resolution, and I would like to justify it. In accordance with the applicable remuneration rules, mayors and Regional Council Presidents shall receive a single remuneration for the performance of the duties of mayor or chairman of the Regional Council respectively. Mayors and Regional Council Presidents may not, in addition, receive other remuneration from the municipality's treasury in order to carry out a municipal or regional function. In accordance with the rules in force, the remuneration of mayors and presidents of the regional councils shall not be set off when they receive remuneration from persons other than the municipality for the performance of duties other than those of mayor or chairman of the regional councils, nor in cases where this other function is carried out as a result of the duties of mayor or chairman of the regional councils. In January of last year, the Pay Commission completed its work on the publication of a report containing the Commission's recommendations for the overall administration of mayors, regional council presidents, members of parliament and ministers. Subsequently, a broad majority was behind an agreement which picked up the recommendations of the Pay Commission. This happened on 9 May and 3 October last year when the then Left Government entered into voting agreements with the Social Democrats, the Radical Left and the Conservative People's Party and the Liberal Alliance on the amendment of the terms of full-time politicians. The agreements concerned changes in the overall administration of mayors, regional council presidents, members of parliament and ministers, and the agreements therefore also covered a wide range of elements in the implementation, inter alia. the level of remuneration, the ongoing adjustment of remuneration, pensions, including the raising of retirement age and the tightening of the rules on remuneration. As regards mayors and presidents of the regional councils, the agreements included, as I mentioned earlier, an increase in the remuneration per head. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The increase in remuneration corresponded to the difference between wage developments since 1994 and actual wage developments in the local and regional labour markets. The reason for the increase in remuneration was that mayors and regional council presidents had long lagged behind in comparison with wage developments for public employees. In addition, the increase also corresponded to the increase in remuneration decided on for ordinary municipal and regional council members in 2014 on the same basis, namely that the remuneration was lagging behind in relation to the wage developments for public employees. The agreements did not only change the level of remuneration, which was also introduced, as I mentioned just now, a new regular adjustment of the remuneration of mayors and regional councillors, which corresponds to the actual development of public servants in the state, region and municipality. The purpose of this was to ensure, as for the ordinary municipal and regional councillors, that the remuneration did not fall behind again, so that in a number of years we would be in the same situation. With this motion for a resolution, the authors of the motion for a resolution want to look at a single element of the administration of mayors and presidents of regional councils, and the government believes that it is most appropriate to look at it in its entirety. With the last agreements made on changes to the appointment of full-time politicians, the government is of the opinion that there is now an overall solution to this issue. The government is therefore not prepared to look at it again. Let me add, moreover, that, in the view of the Ministry, because of its intrusive nature, the system of offsetting should be regulated by law, and the government cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107141624	Thank you, Minister. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107141631	The minister says that the government wants to look at this in a whole, but that is exactly what the remuneration commission did. The remuneration commission was set up with some form of arm's length principle in order to have a sober look at the remuneration of, inter alia, the mayors, and the remuneration commission said very clearly: we think the mayors have fallen a little behind in their base salary; on the other hand, it is quite inappropriate that you get a number of fees on top of the salary. The same parties who had promised to follow the recommendations of the Salaries Commission then chose to do one of two things. The salary was raised by 31%. Okay, but on the other hand, you don't get this double salary, that you're again paid for doing your job at posts you're often born to as mayor. The result is that we have mayors out there who now have such a high income that it is higher than that of the Prime Minister of the country. We have mayors who earn on the good side of 1.5 million. kr., when you combine the foundation with the additional fees. What is the higher point of only implementing, if I may say so, the good part of the agreement, but disregarding the second recommendation from the remuneration commission? And why is it not that we are prepared to implement the recommendations made by the remuneration commission which we have set up ourselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20171107141810	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107141812	After all, there are more considerations on the issues that come from Mr. Pelle Dragsted, among others. should have been followed by the recommendations of the Pay Commission one by one. I do not remember where Enhedslisten put himself in that question with regard to all four groups, but at least there were not many parties that I remember who were prepared to follow the remuneration commission one to one in all questions. I think maybe even my own was either that or one of the only ones who was ready for it then. There was no mood for that in the Folketing at the time. There was no majority in favour of it. Instead, a broad majority of parties joined forces and agreed on the things that were agreed, including among others. the adjustment of the remuneration of mayors and regional councillors, so that an increase was achieved following the increase that was adopted back in 2014 for the private members of municipalities and regional councils.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107141912	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107141914	I fully agree with that, but that is exactly what the Service Commission was trying to propose that this be combined, after all, was a proposal that was linked to each other, but then you should no longer have these fees, because it is without the fees that you had fallen behind. If you were talking to fees, you wouldn't have fallen behind as much as the remuneration commission pointed out. The minister's own party cares a lot or at least says that you care a lot about being careful about spending the citizens' money. This case is one of those cases where, as politicians, we decide our own and our political colleagues on the pay of the municipalities. What kind of signal does the Minister think it sends to the citizens, that we then ignore the part of the remuneration commission's recommendations which went on to say that we can give a wage increase, but in return we should not have this double salary to go to some meetings by virtue of our mayor's office? What kind of signal are we sending out about how we are going to have to spend our citizens' money and, moreover, determine our own salaries and working conditions?
ParlaMint-DK_20171107142022	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107142024	I do not think it is a question of sending a signal. I think it is a question of the level of remuneration for mayors and regional council presidents, and it is not the mayors and regional council chairmen themselves, as the questioner says, who are going to scale them up. This has, of course, been agreed here in the Folketing and not in the regions and in the municipal councils. So I think that the whole premise of the questioner's question falls away when you try to analyse it. In addition, I did not get an answer as to whether the Enhedslisten wanted to follow all the recommendations of the Salaries Commission, but I can see that there are party colleagues in the Chamber, so I hope that will be clarified before the debate is over.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107142107	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107142109	Thank you. When I take the floor, it is because we had a question time with the Prime Minister a moment ago, and it was actually said by the Prime Minister that he met Enhedslisten a little in this matter. What the Prime Minister said quite specifically was: when committee posts follow mayor posts, when someone else cannot be chosen, I have a great deal of sympathy for the fact that you are paid once. That is why I would like to hear from the Minister: is that the attitude of the government, and if that is the position of the government, is it willing to enter into negotiations to amend the resolution so that it responds to the government's position on this point?
ParlaMint-DK_20171107142156	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107142157	An agreement has been made, in fact twice, between the majority of the parties of the Folketing on these issues, and I, as the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior, intend to keep that agreement, unless it is the case that our parties to the agreement come and want the opposite, then we must always discuss it. I think it should be borne in mind that the Prime Minister also said that he does not recognise the premise of double pay for mayors does not recognise. And that is, I suppose, the essence of the answer that was given to Mr Beazley. Nikolaj Villumsen. And I am once again annoyed that I do not hear, even from the deputy political rapporteur from the Enhedslisten: what is the party's policy? What is Enhedslisten's policy? Should you follow one to the recommendations of a remuneration commission, or should you not? I am very interested in getting answers to that in the course of this debate, so that we can at least put it aside.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107142257	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107142259	After all, it is the parties that have set up the remuneration commission and have promised each other and given each other hands to follow the Commission, which has a problem of explanation. The unitary list has always had a clear position that we are not in favour of this double wage and have always wanted it to be abolished. Frankly, I think it is a little absurd when you have mayors who earn on the good side of a million that they should then put half a million extra in their pockets for something that is actually part of the post they were born into as mayors. And that is actually what I heard the Prime Minister say, that when we talk about posts and posts in which the mayor was born, the Prime Minister did not see any reason for double pay. You only had to be paid once. Is that the government's position?
ParlaMint-DK_20171107142351	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107142352	It is the case that only may may the mayors be paid for as mayor or mayor of the Regional Council. That is the case today, and it is also the Government's wish that it should be so forward-looking. Then it is the case that you can receive fees from other posts you hold, in addition to the duties of mayor or chairman of the Regional Council. There is then a possibility, but of course not paid for by the municipality's cashier. And then I am surprised that this is the fourth time that the Enhedslisten has the floor. It has been suggested that it is very important to follow the Salaries Commission, and yet the first two authors would not use their four comments to tell whether Enhedslisten was ready for someone to follow the Salaries Commission's recommendations. It may well be that the answer is just yes, but please say so if the answer is yes, and if it is not yes, then it is also interesting for the debate whether it applies only in selected cases and not in all places.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107142500	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107142502	Thank you, and thank you to the Minister. First of all, a somewhat technical parliamentary question: will the Minister think that it is a breach of a settlement if the government or one of the parties in the government supports the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution? Then I would like us to come in and discuss some opinions. Surely it cannot be that because you have signed a voting agreement sometime earlier this year, you suddenly have no views. May I ask the Minister's position? Does the Minister think it is reasonable that on top of his mayor's salary of approximately 1 million? kr. may receive, for example: 400,000 kroner, as the mayor of Frederiksberg does, by virtue of duties which have been achieved solely because they have been elected mayor? Does the Minister think that is fair, or is that not fair? Because if the Minister thinks that is fair, then I will not ask my second question. Then it is the Minister). Because then there is no more to discuss unless the Minister has some very juicy arguments to which I can relate. So I cannot be told: does the Minister think that is fair? Surely we cannot just stand by and hide by the fact that we have reached a vote agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107142616	It's the minister now.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107142618	I'm not hiding. I can say that I do not remember that the Liberal Alliance has had proposals to reduce the salaries of politicians. As a party, we have had views on pensions, but not on wages. That's one thing. The second point is that there is no settlement. I corrected that before and said it wasn't there. What I am saying is that we have reached an agreement during this parliamentary term, and I have no wish that the agreement made during this period should not be followed. I think that is quite fine because we thought it was the compromise that could be made at that time, and we are, of course, in favour of that. Then I just think it's a shame and strange that the Enhedslisten, even in the fifth attempt, still doesn't want to tell you if you're one of the targets of the Pay Commission's recommendations. Mr. Finn Sørensen now use his next remark to, that is, you can just answer yes or no. Yes or no: Do you want to measure it? It's kind of weird that you don't just answer. After all, there is nothing disguised in my question. After all, this is an open and honest question: Does the Enhedslisten support one for a remuneration commission's recommendations?
ParlaMint-DK_20171107142727	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107142730	Unfortunately, then, I will have to ask another question, because the Minister would not answer my question. Now it is settled in that we have a few seconds to put questions to the Minister, and then I asked the Minister: does the Minister really think it is reasonable that you can get 400,000 kroner on top of your mayor's salary? The Minister will not answer that question. I think that is just a pity, because these are positions that are at stake here and reasonable. I think that is the view of the people too, and that is why it would be appropriate for the Minister to deal with it. As for the question, Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen on it. Yes, he did, and if the Minister did not hear that, you can ask our rapporteur when you come to the platform. He's got a little more time to deal with those things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107142820	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107142825	There are many great pleasures in being both a minister and a member of the Folketing. One of them is that you can get a long charge that you do not answer the questions, after which the questioner will not answer a very simple question. It's an amazing technique that Enhedslisten is rolling out here today. I do not understand why it should be hidden from those who follow the debate, whether Enhedslisten will one by one follow the recommendations of the Pay Commission. Yes or no? If you want to be taken seriously in a debate where you say that it is very crucial that the remuneration commission has recommended this, then you must also tell whether you were prepared to follow it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107142905	I would like to call on both the rapporteurs and the participants and the Minister to get as close to the speaking time as we have agreed, as possible. It's Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107142918	Thank you. I really think that this resolution is about something other than what the Pay Commission has just thought or not thought, but more about where the limit really is for how many working hours the citizens really believe that a person can handle such a four-year period in a row. As I read the motion for a resolution, it is precisely about the fact that if you are a full-time mayor and sometimes get a correspondingly large amount of remuneration, that is actually equivalent to having to perform the double number of working hours year after year. Is it reasonable to believe that we can actually do that? Or does that mean we get paid for two different jobs at the same time?
ParlaMint-DK_20171107143011	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107143013	I think it is a very relevant question that is being asked. If the voters think you can do that, then they say so. And it's so amazing that in 14 days, the voters will have the opportunity to decide if they believe it. If they don't believe it and they think it should be changed, they can vote for someone else. If they believe it and do not want it changed, they can vote for that person. It may also be that they believe something, but do not think it is essential, and then they can not leave it crucial. But isn't it amazing that those who can have a faith can decide it with their intersection in 14 days. I think that is quite fine.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107143058	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107143059	Yes, but now it is also we who have some sort of influence on what kind of reasonableness it is that we would also like to signal. I hope there are a great many ordinary employees who will be elected to the municipal councils in 14 days' time. They will then receive a remuneration for this and it will be set off hourly when the work of the municipal council overlaps with their civilian jobs. Is it reasonable that they should be offset at the same time as the elected representatives should not be offset when they receive remuneration?
ParlaMint-DK_20171107143134	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107143136	Now they are all elected, I suppose, and it is also the case that there are a large number of board posts, etc. that you can have, even if you are a mayor, and thus will also be paid in such a case. I also share the honourable Member's concern that there should be a lot of ordinary employees in the municipal council. One can hope that they become a little more common than they are today. Today, it is the case that people employed in private companies are under-represented, as opposed to people employed in the public sector. So, yes, let us get more ordinary employees into the municipal councils.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107143215	Then it's mr. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107143218	One of the reasons given by the Service Commission for proposing to set aside a large increase in mayor's wages and then set off in proportion to the remuneration we are talking about here: the double salaries that you can go and scrape around the place was that it should ensure greater transparency about the mayor's salary, so that the mayor's salary was not composed of things from around which you as mayor were directly born into, but certainly also of things that are so dealt with as a rule on the election night itself. Does the Minister agree with the reasons given by the Salaries Commission that a mayor's salary is made up of this, and that is so, and that it is not lumped together by all sorts of remuneration afterwards? Does the Minister agree that this will lead to greater transparency in the remuneration of mayors?
ParlaMint-DK_20171107143318	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107143320	Generally speaking, it would be desirable to have a much more transparent system of remuneration for politicians' salaries from a municipal councillor to a prime minister. I have some very fundamental views on that, but I do not think that today is the day we are going to get there. I think it is right that we should choose the same principle that we also chose in 2014 when we raised the salaries, the salaries, for the ordinary members of the municipal and regional councils, and that is what we have done: created a completely parallel, and I do not think there should be any special rules for the mayors and the regional councils. Now that I've got mr. Henning Hyllested, who had Enhedslisten's seventh reply, I hope that in the eighth reply there will be a clear answer to this question as to whether Enhedslisten is in favour of following one to one or whether one has picked a little in the recommendations.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107143417	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107143419	I can only point out that our rapporteur will be on the floor later, and then we will have to take it there, and then I will stick to the matter and to the resolution itself. One of the reasons why the Service Commission decided on an increase in mayors' salaries of about 30% is that it should, as it were, cover the work that goes with the job, while at the same time creating, as I said before, greater transparency. I would almost say: can we expect the mayors' salaries, with the attitude expressed here by the Minister, to be raised again, because they still do not cover it like they do, in that it is accepted that wages are still put away by remuneration from around which they can now act?
ParlaMint-DK_20171107143511	Then it is the Minister who answers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107143513	A clear answer to a clear question: No, you cannot expect that. On the other hand, I think that the Danish Parliament and the audience could expect Enhedslisten to clarify his point of view soon, in relation to whether you want to follow the recommendations of the Pay Commission one to one, but I understand that this is a tension that should only be triggered when the rapporteur goes to the platform. And I will look forward to hearing Mr. Pelle Dragsted from up here.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107143542	But at least now we say thank you to the Minister. There are no more brief comments and we shall move on to the rapporteur's line. The first rapporteur is Mr. Magnus Heunicke, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107143602	Thank you. The debate here is therefore about the motion for a resolution tabled by Enhedslisten on the reduction of the remuneration of mayors and presidents of the regional councils for their duties as mayors and presidents of the regional councils. On the basis of the proposal, the Enhedslisten uses the report of the Pay Commission, which was issued in 2016. In that report, the Commission, independent of Christiansborg, has analysed all elements of the administration of mayors, regional council presidents, members of parliament and ministers. On the basis of the analysis, the Commission has presented a large number of recommendations and, as a follow-up to the Pay Commission report and its recommendations, a vote agreement was reached in May 2016 between the then Left Government, the Social Democratic Party, the Radical Left, the Conservative and Liberal Alliance on the approval of politicians. Here, among other things, there were: introduced a level adjustment of 31.4% of the mayor's and regional council's bill. This is a high figure, but it corresponds exactly to the difference between the trend in remuneration since 1994 and the actual wage developments in the local and regional labour market. It is my view that this kind of question about the remuneration of mayors and the President of the Regional Council is of a fundamental nature, and we owe it to us to clarify this in an overall assessment. So it was done less than 11⁄2 years ago, and so I can say that we stand by our vote and cannot vote in favour of this new proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107143758	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107143801	Now the Social Democrat rapporteur says the same thing, namely that it is an overall assessment, but it was precisely an overall assessment of the pay relations of the mayors that was asked to come with the remuneration commission. They replied very clearly in the overall assessment, namely that they considered it a sensible idea to raise the mayors' salaries, against the fact that, in return, additional fees associated with the mayor's or regional president's duties were counted against the basic salary. Then some parties in here choose to follow one part, namely the one who holds well in the pockets of the colleagues in the municipal landscape, and disregard the other part, which had taken some of the gold back the other way and down into the common box to cut right into the leg of what this is all about. That's what you've done. Why is that fair? Why is it that the recommendations were not followed and said: okay, there is apparently a shortfall in wages, but, of course, we are also following the second recommendation, so that we actually get that wage development if that is what you want? After all, we now have the wage developments plus the enormous growth also in the extra-honoraries, as we know there have been. I think it is 20% that has been mentioned. Well, then, you haven't just followed the wage trend. The wage trend has been followed, and the water taps have just been increased.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107143921	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107143922	Now I do not want to repeat the good debate that was just between the Minister and the Danish Parliament here, but it is a little thought-provoking that Enhedslisten's primary argument is about why one by one has not followed the recommendations of the Salaries Commission. Among other things: It also recommended a sharp increase in the salaries of members of parliament and ministers, and this was also rejected. So the picture that you've only looked at those things from the Service Commission, where, as I think Enhedslisten's rapporteur said the one that was turned up the tap and the busted down the box of gold, is simply not true. So the question to Enhedslisten is: If you are so concerned that the remuneration commission's recommendation should be followed, is it the policy of Enhedslisten?
ParlaMint-DK_20171107144016	Sir. Pelle Dragsted for another brief remark. I'm just asking, in general, if you want to push into the second round so we can control it up here. But here you go, sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107144019	I would very much like to answer the Minister's question, but he only asked me the question in his second answer, so it was a little difficult. In the Enhedslisten, we were not behind all the recommendations of the Salaries Commission. We were behind those who restricted the privileges and pay relationships of politicians, and we opposed those who gave rise to new wage increases. But it was not us in the Enhedslisten who had set up the Salaries Commission and said that we would follow what it brought. Today we are discussing the municipal area and the mayors, and we can play all sorts of games, but there was an assessment from a remuneration committee which the rapporteur's party has helped to set up. And it thought it was fair to raise the salary, but it was said in return: then you should not also have extra fees when you go out to some meetings during the lunch break to represent the municipality.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107144113	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107144114	Then perhaps I think we are on the issue of double standards, because the Enhedslisten's rapporteur disagrees and takes a critical view that it is possible to have a political position that says: we are not swallowing it one by one, we are allowing ourselves to assess what comes from the Salaries Commission politically. But when we ask about the party's own position, the Enhedslisten's position is evident that you have just taken that assessment and not just swallowed it up. And if it is true for Enhedslisten that one has an interest in doing so, then it probably also applies to others in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107144150	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107144151	Thank you. Here again, I would like to try the same thing that I tried in vain with the Minister, namely to get the rapporteur to deal with the substance of the matter and to make his views known. After all, these are positions we are discussing here, and not all sorts of hoaxes about who said what when. Does the rapporteur think that it is reasonable for a mayor, for example: The mayor of Frederiksberg, but we can take many other mayors... have several hundred thousand crowns on top of a mayor's salary of approx. 1 million kr. A year? Does the rapporteur think that is fair?
ParlaMint-DK_20171107144237	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107144239	However, when I presented, loyally I think, the background to the Enhedslisten's proposal and explained that a vote agreement was reached a year and a half ago, of which the Social Democratic Party was a part, together with a broad majority of other parties, without the Enhedslisten, it was because we are on the goal of this agreement, also for the levels around Denmark that have emerged. Of course. This is an area which had not been regulated for many, many years, and we have been able to accommodate that delay. So, of course, we are on the target for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107144317	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107144319	All honour and respect for the goal of agreements, but when one decided that one would now support that vote agreement, one must have considered whether one thought that the fact that a large number of mayors earn several hundred thousand kroner on top of the mayor's salary, which is typically about 1 million. kr., was reasonable. So what were the considerations then? Was there any thought at all about this? Or was it said, it's okay, we don't want to talk about it? In other words, you are allowed to have some opinions on things, especially when you are elected to the Folketing, and perhaps especially in a situation where large sections of the population find that welfare is being reduced around, so that it whistles in the area of the elderly, in the area of children, etc. Then you just stand so relaxed and say, yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107144406	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107144407	We had a situation in which we in Denmark had not regulated the levels of remuneration for mayors and regional councillors. It must have been county officials since 1994 and we took that responsibility on board. Enhedslisten didn't do that, you didn't think you should. But we thought we should. And whatever we chose to do, we knew that we would have this debate with the Enhedslisten. I have to say that we are on the goal of concluding the vote agreement with the content and consequences it then has. I think I am missing that Enhedslisten, who is very concerned about the settings of the Service Commission, is also on the goal that they were far from even buying them one for one.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107144449	Thank you, sir. Magnus Heunicke. There are no more brief comments and we go further in the rapporteur's report to Mrs Susanne Eilersen, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107144500	Thank you for that, President. Today we have a motion for a resolution from the Enhedslisten on the remuneration of mayors and to deduct it in the second profession. In the Danish People's Party we were opposed to the setting up of the remuneration commission, just as we were opposed to mayors increasing in salary. Having said that, we have the same view as the remuneration commission that the remuneration of mayors and regional council presidents, after this increase in remuneration, has been per. 1 January 2017, should cover all tasks which fall within the scope of the mission. It is an amount that has changed in relation to a range of just over DKK 700,000. to about 1.2 million. kr. paid to mayors according to the size of the municipality. I believe that the remuneration commission provided a well-worked tool for changing the overall remuneration package for politicians, both when we are talking about remuneration, pensions, reimbursements and also about regulation in relation to board fees. For the Danish People's Party, it is both regrettable and astonishing that as a government one chooses to take the recommendations apart and only adopts the part of the recommendations that increases revenue significantly, and disregards the one that one can say more fatigue part of the agreement, where one could tamper with by offsetting the mayors' salary. In my opinion, this would be a more accurate picture of an appropriate level of pay, while at the same time creating more transparency and transparency in the remuneration system. This also means that the mayors have been given a much higher salary than the one proposed by the remuneration commission. In fact, we in the Danish People's Party do not think so, and that is why the Danish People's Party can support Enhedslisten's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107144657	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107144700	Thank you. In any event, I would like to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur for his support for the motion for a resolution. There is something that suggests that it can be difficult to get through with it. I have a feeling of what the next rapporteur will say, and then that opportunity goes away. The question that may arise is: Is it so that the Danish People's Party as a party believes that mayors should follow Thomas Kastrup-Larsen's example from Aalborg? So, it is a position of the Danish People's Party as a natural consequence of the announcement we have now received that the newly elected mayors who may be members of the Danish People's Party are hoping that there will be some of them so should also follow the example of the mayor of Aalborg, where he says that it is okay and that in practice they follow what the Pay Commission and now the Enhedslisten are proposing here.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107144754	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107144756	Thank you. It's guessing who's gonna be in the mayor's post here after November 21st. In the Danish People's Party we hope, of course, that there could be a few to our advantage. I would ask the mayors to follow the legislation that exists, and I cannot, as a member of the House, instruct the mayors to do anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107144820	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107144822	That's how we feel in the Enhedslisten. We could not come up with, when there is legislation, to try to decide that if when the Enhedslisten mayors come around, they should do so in a certain way. This is not something we in the parliamentary group would try to decide. But that's why you can have an attitude. And it must surely be logical that if you have the position of the rapporteur, which is entirely in line with that of the Enhedslisten and the Service Commission, then it is also felt that mayors should also follow the rules that do not have to, because you cannot force people to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107144900	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107144901	But now the rules are such that the mayors can get a job that pays a fee somewhere, and that is not illegal in any way whatsoever. We adopt the legislation here at Christiansborg, and then we have to follow it, despite the fact that Mr. Finn Sørensen and I might have wanted a different result from the recommendations of the Pay Commission, also in relation to this proposal. But it is the majority of democracy that decides, and that is why it is again that the mayors follow the law, and I do not want to impose any mayor to do anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107144937	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments and we will move on to Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107144949	Thank you for that, President. In the context of today's debate on B2, I can begin by telling you that the Left is voting against. Back in May and October last year, our then Left Government entered into a voting agreement with a broad majority in the Danish Parliament on changes to the remuneration of full-time politicians, as a follow-up to the remuneration commission's recommendation. The Left believes that at that time we arrived at a good and sustainable overall solution to the remuneration of mayors and regional council presidents. With the resolution we have before us today, the Enhedslisten then puts forward a proposal to deal with the issue of remuneration. We in the Left do not believe that one element of the issue of remuneration can be considered. We believe that it is more appropriate to look at remuneration as a whole. We also believe that this motion for a resolution does not take sufficient account of, for example, the fact that the Commission is not in a position to take the necessary measures. a mayor or chairman of the Regional Council shall assume several political functions. This means that they will then also take on increased responsibility and more work. And we simply think that they should be compensated for that. In view of this, I can say that the Left is voting against the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107145115	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, and first it is from Mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107145119	Thank you very much. Now I know that the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party are very, very concerned about fairness. For example: It is reasonable that a social security recipient, a single mother with two children, should lose more than DKK 35,000. or there about a year in amount available because she has to be hit by a cash aid ceiling so that it pays for her to work. So I would like to ask the rapporteur: does the rapporteur think it is right that there should be four mayors and a Regional Council President who serve significantly more than the rapporteur's party colleague, the Prime Minister? Is that fair?
ParlaMint-DK_20171107145153	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107145155	The Enhedslisten's rapporteur is quite right in saying that in the Left we are very much in favour of fairness, and I must say that I also think it is right that if you take on further duties, you should also be paid for it. As far as the examples presented by the rapporteur are concerned, it is clear that some examples can always be found that some mayors, and indeed others, have taken on additional duties. And perhaps one might also want to turn the question and ask: does this perhaps mean that the Prime Minister's remuneration is too low? Perhaps we could take that discussion at another time.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107145236	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107145238	Thank you. Then I will just have to say once again that the rapporteur and I have a very, very different view of what is reasonable. It is reasonable to take up to DKK 40,000, because this is the biggest loss that can be incurred as a single mother on cash benefits as a result of the ceiling on cash benefits. That it is quite reasonable and that it is also reasonable, on the other hand, that the Prime Minister might have increased his salary to the level of Regional Council President Bent Hansen's salary, which is 2 million. kr., when you add it all together, is just a very different view of what is reasonable. So there is a difference in Danish politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107145317	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107145319	In fact, I do not think that the public is in any doubt that there is a difference in Danish politics and that there may be a difference between Mr. Finn Sørensen's opinions and my opinions. So it is clear that we can always find examples from the point of view of reality and drag them into the Chamber and ask: is it reasonable, or is it unreasonable? Well, Enhedslisten could also have chosen to draw another example and compared to what DR's director gets in annual salary etc. Those are the examples we can find anywhere. But I can confirm to the rapporteur that it is not in all areas, Mr President. Finn Sørensen and I agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107145356	Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107145359	I can assure the rapporteur that, whether it be the Director-General of the DR or other public bosses, Enhedslisten is always making up the team against greed and pamphlet, and that is also the case here. It's like when the Danes go to work, you get paid once. This just does not apply to mayors and regional presidents. First they get their salary of perhaps 1 million-1,2 million. kr., and when they have to attend some board meetings, because they are mayors, and which in some cases they are born into or have been awarded on the night of constitution, then they must be paid extra for it, in order to do their job. What kind of a signal is it to send to all other Danes, especially to many public employees, who have not exactly experienced the high wage increases over the last decade, to give the mayors a pay increase of 31%, and on top of that they can raise DKK 100,000. at this board post and 300,000 kroner. At this board post? Is this a fair way of spending the citizens' money?
ParlaMint-DK_20171107145507	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107145509	First of all, I need to point out that, as I believe the Minister did, the mayors receive a mayor's pension paid by the municipal treasury and, as regards the other duties that the mayor takes on, it is not taken from the municipal treasury. Having said that, we can also discuss here when it is greed and when it is unreasonable, and I think that we can all find examples around where we can say that here we may think personally, it is greasy, or it is unreasonable. But I am also sure that there are a great many examples where, if you calculate the hourly wage, whether it is for the regional council presidents or for that matter for the mayors and the municipal councillors, you will see that they may have a relatively small hourly wage.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107145557	As no one else has asked for the floor... Pelle Dragsted I would like to follow up and I am sorry, but it is because you, as Presidents, have a very different practice). No, we have a similar practice. Here you go, sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107145613	Thank you so much. I'll try to remember it, even though it's hard when things change. But to Mrs Anni Matthiesen: it is probably too far to draw it. Well, my mayor out at Frederiksberg has a total income of over 1.5 million. kr. a year, so even if he works for the late hours, he has an hourly wage that is significantly above what ordinary Danes ever come near to serving. I think that what is so special about these situations is, of course, that we legislate on our own pay or, in this case, on our colleagues out in the pay of the communal landscape. In doing so, I think that we have an extra responsibility to exercise moderation, to show modesty and to pay attention to it. And that's why I don't understand the choice you've made in this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107145700	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107145702	Well, I would like to acknowledge that the Enhedslisten rapporteur does not understand the choice that has been made in connection with the conclusion of this vote agreement. On the other hand, I also think it is important to say in this Chamber today that there were a number of parties that agreed and could understand it. And that is why there was a majority when a year ago this vote agreement was concluded, in which both the Radical Left, the Social Democrats and the governing parties are involved. But it is fair enough that the Enhedslisten cannot understand the vote agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107145738	We thank Mrs Anni Matthiesen. There are no further brief comments, and we shall move on to Mr Beazley's report. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107145745	Thank you for the floor. Let me start by saying straight away that the Liberal Alliance does not support the resolution. The agreement reached by the Liberal Alliance with the previous government to increase the remuneration of mayors and presidents of the regional councils was a fine agreement because we corrected 23 years of inequality in wage developments compared with other public and other members of the municipal council. The Enhedslisten, who has tabled this motion for a resolution, believes that remuneration from any side jobs should be set off against the mayors' and regional council presidents' remuneration. Of course you may think so, but I myself and the Liberal Alliance believe that you should be paid for the work you do. Whether these people do the work for which they are paid, or even qualified, I do not know. However, I believe that it should be far more qualifications than random political positions which were decisive in relation to the appointment of the members of the board of directors, for example. the supply and waste companies. I am convinced that professionalisation of semi-public boards around the country could help to increase the productivity of these companies, and this for the benefit of consumers in the various municipalities. Furthermore, and this is perhaps not surprising, I agree with the Minister's point that it does not make sense to deal with a single element of the agreement that has been reached, as opposed to dealing with it in its entirety, and when it is not even a year since we have changed the rules, it does not really make any sense to me that we are throwing it all up in the air right now. For these reasons, the Liberal Alliance cannot support the motion for a resolution tabled by the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107145954	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107145956	Bee-job, says the rapporteur, but this is not a secondary job. It is a question of carrying out its duties as mayor, including that of the mayor, for example. represent the municipality of the local energy company. In many cases these companies were actually in the past under the municipality, and there they were also responsible for them. Then they have been separated into independent companies, and suddenly you have to have a huge fee to attend some board meetings a couple of times a year. That is the situation. And I think it is bound to be bizarre to experience that the Liberal Alliance, which is otherwise busy with every single penny that you can take out of the pocket of the poorest people in this society, is kind of nonchalant in that we spend millions of dollars on this kind of overpayment of our mayors and regional presidents. What is the odd view of the priority of public funds that they say: that is quite fine; we overhear the experts' recommendations that this should be set off here; let's not lose the money so that these mayors and regional presidents can earn more than the Prime Minister of the country? Is that really what the Liberal Alliance stands for?
ParlaMint-DK_20171107150107	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107150109	I do not know if there was any specific question. I certainly do not believe that the Liberal Alliance is in such a hurry to pull the money out of the pockets of the poorest in Denmark. It was, I think, a rather strange interpretation of Liberal Alliance policy. Public funds, says Mr. Pelle Dragsted. We are not talking about public funds here, we can say, semi-public funds. It is the boards of companies where there is obviously a board of directors and where it is the often politically appointed board of directors who appoints the chairman and where it is the constitution agreements made in connection with municipal and regional elections that are supposedly constitution agreements, without me having to put my head on the block here on the platform of the Folketing, supported by the Enhedslisten. And then I think my speaking time is up, but I can see that Mr. Pelle Dragsted has already pressed for his second comment, and it is good that Enhedslisten can also be better at this kind of thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107150209	That's right. Sir. Pelle Dragsted, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107150211	Those were incredibly many words, but not really an indication of where justice is in this. In other words, we are in a situation where there are places in the municipalities where, for example, you are in a situation where you are in a situation where you are in a situation where you are in a situation where you are in a situation where, for example, you are in a situation where you are in a situation where you are in a situation where you are in a situation where you are in a situation where you are in a situation where you are in a situation where you are in a situation where you are in a situation where, for example, you are in a situation where you are in a situation where you are in a situation where you are in a situation where you are in a situation where you are in a situation where you are in a situation where you are in a situation where you, for example, you are in a situation where you are in a situation where you are in a situation where you are in a situation where you are in a situation where you are in a situation where you, for example, you are in a situation where you are in a situation where When I hear what the Liberal Alliance is saying about public funds, I just don't understand how you can support the kind of pamphlet that this is expressing.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107150250	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107150251	Again, I am not sure I heard any specific question. But Mr. Pelle Dragsted again talks about cake for the coffee at the nursing homes or where it was, and that again is not the contradiction that can be set up here. It is not directly public funds from municipal funds; it is the companies' funds that have been paid by consumers. And that is also why I indicated in my speech that I really wanted more professionalisation of the boards involved here and that it would be very likely, I believe, to be of great benefit to consumers in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107150321	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107150325	Thank you. The rapporteur said that he did not understand the fact that the Liberal Alliance should be very busy pulling money out of the pockets of the poor. But it cannot be so difficult to reach that conclusion when you look at what the Liberal Alliance has done: to halve the benefit period with the result that out of those who are losing the benefit right today, 40% will end up. without support. It has helped to lower transfer income. A ceiling on cash benefits and a 225-hour rule have been introduced. So there are countless examples that the Liberal Alliance has been busy pulling money out of the pockets of the poorest. But the rapporteur said something very interesting. The rapporteur said that pay should be earned. This means that you must be paid for the work you do. Is this a principle that the rapporteur believes should apply to all matters?
ParlaMint-DK_20171107150417	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107150419	Yes, it is, as it were, a generally good principle that if you do a job, you get paid for it and that salary is agreed between the employer and the employee. That is also the case here. There is a company that has to pay some board members, and it is the work for which they are paid. They are doing the work and whether they are qualified for it, I do not think I am the right person to judge here, as I said before. But again, I would like to stress that I would like to see the boards of these companies professionalised more professionally, because I believe that this would benefit individual consumers in the municipalities. Sir. Finn Sørensen's preliminary remark, I do not think I will go into it further than saying that I think it is good agreements that the Liberal Alliance has been made all around and that they help to increase the workforce and ensure that there is an incentive to enter the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107150510	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107150512	Thank you. I welcome the clear announcement that you should be paid for the work you do. Does this mean that the Liberal Alliance will support a proposal that when sending cash benefits recipients in so-called utility jobs, where they do tasks covered by the agreement of 3F and FOA, just to mention something, we also pay them a collective salary for it? Because today's case is that there are thousands of cash benefits recipients who are put into a useful job for a salary equivalent to approx. 42 kr. It's an hour. So I would like to know whether the rapporteur will be involved in extending his fine principle, so that this also applies to cash benefits recipients.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107150550	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107150552	I don't know if sir. Finn Sørensen's conclusion here goes a little further than what the motion for a resolution covers, but I would like to say again that there is absolutely no doubt that we should be paid for the work we are now doing, and that is something that has been agreed between the employer and the worker and in the specific situations which Mr Sørensen has mentioned. Finn Sørensen is talking about a process to bring marginalised people outside the labour market back into the labour market. I think that is quite reasonable and there may be many different ways of doing so, but this is one of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107150624	Then it's mr. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107150627	In his rapporteur's speech, the rapporteur said that with the increase in the mayor's wages, the correction was made, I think many years have been said. That is undoubtedly true, but has it passed the rapporteur's attention that it was linked to the fact that at the same time the mayor's salary had to be covered by the fees which were, after all, available in the past but which are thus still available? That is also why the mayor's salary was raised as strongly as they did; that is to say, it was over 30% that the mayors were paid in an increase, precisely because it was supposed to cover these fees. I think there are not many other public servants who have received more than 30% increase in pay over the past many years.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107150728	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107150730	That is exactly what is happening, and that is precisely why the agreement was concluded, in order to bring these people up to the same level as other civil servants and other members of the municipal council as they are, it can be said, in part also doing the same work for. So that's actually what was meant to correct this bias that had once arisen over a number of years. So that's actually the point. As the Minister, who is also my colleague in the party, has already explained, there were probably not many parties other than the Liberal Alliance. I can now understand that Enhedslisten was also opposed to the introduction of the overall package which, at least one to one, was in favour of introducing the remuneration commission's recommendations as a whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107150824	Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107150826	The rapporteur says: other public servants. After all, public employees are a broad group, and I do not think that there are very many public employees at the level of SOSU assistant, janitor at school, or whatever they are called, who have received over 30% of the salary increase here in the last really, very many years nor when you add all the years together. So it's gonna have to settle down after another level. I would still like to point out that the rapporteur also said in his rapporteur's speech that we should not look at elements, but that is exactly what we have chosen to do by saying that we are only looking at the pay increase for the mayors, but that we are not taking into account the other part of what is called cover for fees and such things. That's what I think there's weird in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107150911	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107150913	The questioner thinks it's strange that I don't think it's so strange that you try to get some uniformity in the remuneration of municipal members around the country. In fact, I think that is very sensible. And as to the level at which the remuneration commission worked at the time, I shall not be able to go into it further. I do not know the statistical basis for the work of the Salaries Commission. But I can only say that what is in the work of the remuneration commission is that with this manoeuvre, you can say, you will bring mayors and regional councillors up to the same level as other civil servants and other municipal and regional councillors.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107150951	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. So we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107151003	Thank you, President. For the alternative, this is really quite simple. We would like total transparency on the salaries of mayors and regional council presidents and would like the salaries of everyone else. We think that it will be quite opaque and opaque when the mayors, who have been set 30 per cent by the way. We think it will be completely opaque, and that is why we think this is an excellent proposal from the Enhedslisten, and it supports the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107151051	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107151105	Since the Radical Left rapporteur cannot be present in this Chamber, I have to read out the following speech: the Radical Left is in favour of transparency and openness on the salaries of politicians. We can support this proposal, which is based on the recommendations of the Salaries Commission, which states that the Commission considers that the remuneration of mayors and Regional Council Presidents must reflect all the tasks which naturally fall within the remit and which, at the same time, point out that it does not wish to restrict other tasks for mayors and regional council presidents. We would prefer elected representatives to be paid for their political work, and the posts directly linked to the political profession should be considered as part of this work. So we can support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107151156	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107151200	Well, first of all, I just want to thank you for supporting this proposal. And then I have a question, because the Radical Left is in the original voting agreement. We have heard as an argument from now three rapporteurs that because they were included in this vote agreement, the proposal could not be supported. It has been a little harder to get the other reasons. However, does the rapporteur agree that the agreement reached at the time should prevent parties from supporting this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20171107151224	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107151226	As I have understood the technical part of it, all the parties from the opening of the Folketing are free to vote in favour of other parts of the remuneration committee's recommendations. So I don't see that as an argument.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107151236	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments, which is why we move on to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107151245	Thank you. I would like to thank the Enhedslisten for tabling this motion for a resolution. In the SF, we also think it is time to put an end to the violent salaries that some politicians receive for board posts alongside their already well-paid posts as mayors and regional council presidents. For this reason, SF naturally backs this proposal from the Enhedslisten and the Salaries Commission to offset the remuneration from various board positions. Unfortunately, I believe that few citizens can understand why mayors should have a large bag of money on top of the mayor's bill, which has just been set up. It is a fine democratic principle that we have a system in which politicians have the opportunity to sit with important municipal and regional board positions, but a mayor or regional council chairman is already paid full-time, and therefore it should also be part of their work if they have board positions. In addition, it would also suit many mayors to distribute more of these board positions to other local politicians whenever possible. The thing about incentives is popular these days, and wouldn't the incentive for everything else be a little bit bigger if there weren't any extra income associated with the many board posts? As I also mentioned in my question to the Minister, I hope that in 14 days' time we will have a lot of ordinary employees elected, and I should like to point out, perhaps, that public employees are also ordinary employees. But common to all of them is that they are paid when the work of the municipal council collides with the civilian job, and this proposal thus creates a kind of equality before the law, and therefore the SF also supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107151446	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Anders Johansson, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107151454	Thank you for that and thank you to the Enhedslisten for raising the debate, which is of course very topical here 2 weeks before a municipal election. The purpose of the motion for a resolution we are debating is to require the government to amend the rules so that the presidents and mayors of the regions are set off against them if they receive remuneration from other posts for which they are appointed politically. We have a great deal of sympathy for the intentions behind the proposal, namely that taxpayers' money should be used and used with care. This is something that is very much at the heart of the Conservative People's Party, and there have also been some cases that we think may also seem unreasonable. We have recently tightened up the rules, among other things. In the light of the recommendations of the Pay Commission, and in this respect, we really think that we have achieved a balance, and that is why we do not think that there is any reason to change the rules now. However, I myself come from a municipality where the mayor has no duties involving remuneration, and I think that is actually quite fair. On the other hand, it is a local decision that has been made in my municipality, and I think it should continue to be that way. After all, there is a great difference between appointments and appointments, from municipality to municipality or from constitution to constitution. There may be some tasks that require an extra effort, or where the mayor contributes competences or others contribute competences, and then I think that in some cases it may well be reasonable for a remuneration to be obtained for it. So my point is actually that I think this is something you should be allowed to decide locally so that the municipal council can determine what is reasonable in individual cases. That is why it is still a relevant debate. After all, there will be municipal elections in 14 days' time, so that means that the voters may be able to ask their local politicians, on the basis of today's debate, how do you intend to act in a future constitution debate? That is why I think it is fair and good that we should have the debate today, but I think that precisely this question should be put to the local politicians and not to the Parliamentary Assembly. Against this background, I would say that we cannot support the proposal, but we agree with some of the intentions behind it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107151718	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107151722	The problem is that, as the rules are today, it is not even easy to do it locally. As far as the mayor of Aalborg is concerned, we must pay tribute to the Social Democrats. The message has not been poured right into Christiansborg, but local people have actually wanted to voluntarily disclaim it here. It was actually quite difficult to do because of the legislation we have from in here, but if we can look at it at some point, it would be a step along the way. Now the rapporteur says that there is no remuneration for the mayor in the rapporteur's own municipality, but in the municipalities of some of the rapporteur's party colleagues there are in fact some of the height jumpers, both when we look at Michael Ziegler and at the mayor of my own municipality, Jørgen Glenthøj, who thus sits on a number of boards: 45,000 from Frederiksberg Energy, 300,000 from the Metro Company, 53,000 from something called KOMBIT, which therefore comes on top of the salary of 1.2 million. kr. Is it fair when you already have a salary of 1.2 million? kr. that at the same time you can raise more than DKK 400 000, i.e. the same as most employees get in total, in order to take care of some tasks you have qua your role as mayor?
ParlaMint-DK_20171107151834	Then it's the rapporteur, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107151837	Thank you for the question. I am not going to stand here and take a stand on the salaries of individuals or mayors and individuals, but I would like to say that, in general terms, we must always be careful, including as a municipal politician, when we enter into these constitution agreements. I hope, in fact, that the rapporteur's party will be, when we come to 21 November. Then, of course, we must be careful how to spend our citizens' money. Of course, this is something that needs to be taken into account, and I think it is important to send out a signal from this point of view that attention should be paid to how citizens' money is spent at all levels of the municipality.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107151906	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107151912	That is a very good thing, and thank you for your sympathy for the proposal, but the right way to send that signal is to adopt the proposal, because it would actually mean that the mayors who are now candidates would know what they were going to do, and the citizens would know what kind of pay they are before they should cross. However, I think it is a sympathetic idea of the rapporteur that the mayor candidates can resign. I personally, together with our local people around, have asked the mayor's candidates in my municipality, for example, whether they will report clearly before the elections. And then I hope that the rapporteur will urge his colleague, Jørgen Glenthøj, to do so in good time before the elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107151954	The rapporteur is in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107151955	I think it should be up to the individual candidates what they want to sign up for the municipal elections. I think it is important that we maintain local self-government. In fact, it is here on 21 November that you have the opportunity to ask these questions, and then it is up to the voters, it is up to the candidates, to the individual mayors and who else is in this debate. I'm actually comfortable with the fact that it's out in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107152015	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107152018	Thank you, and thank you for an upcoming speech. Although the rapporteur could not go all the way, the rapporteur could see that there were some sympathetic things in the proposal. I would like to ask the rapporteur to take a stand on what he has said. Pelle Dragsted mentioned first, namely that as the law is, it is the Folketing that determines the mayor's fee. So it can be said that the rapporteur's and my common positions on this can only be realised in cases where the individual mayor chooses to do the same as Thomas Kastrup. After all, it is not left to municipal self-government. As the law is, it is not the case that a municipal council can impose it on the mayor. After all, we have legislation, and it is, of course, described in the law what the mayor can have. The mayor needs a paycheck. It's explicit. The council can't just change that. How, then, will the rapporteur come closer to a situation in which the rapporteur's views are also reflected in reality in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20171107152119	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107152120	That's absolutely right. In relation to the remuneration, it has been decided in the Folketing, and I think it is wise, in my view, that one should not sit and negotiate on it in a local election campaign. But that is in relation to these other board positions, and that is what today's debate is about. It is entirely up to the individual municipality to decide, in relation to how to appoint members for different duties, which posts a mayor should be appointed to, which posts another mayor should be appointed to, and which posts may be appointed to a very third, which may have some very special qualifications. And I think that freedom should be maintained in the municipal council, and that is what the resolution here is going to restrict.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107152159	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107152201	No, I don't agree with that, sir. rapporteur. - We want to restrict the free space in connection with a constitution and an agreement on who should have which board posts. There is no limit to that here. After all, this proposal is only about us getting the municipalities to function in such a way that if the mayor is in office because of his mayor's duties, the fees received in those duties must be offset against the mayor's salary. That's kind of it. There is no restriction on municipal autonomy.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107152238	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107152240	All I'm saying is there's a difference between the municipality and the municipality. There are very many municipalities where there are no posts. I think I read that in 47 municipalities there are no posts for which the mayor is appointed to pay special fees. Then there are some municipalities where there are some tasks that may require extra work and where the mayor is appointed by the municipal council to perform some tasks because he adds some special competences to the board. I think that is actually fair: if he or she takes on an additional task, he or she will also be rewarded for it with some form of remuneration. And I think you should be allowed to decide locally.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107152313	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. We shall move on to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr Beyer de Ryke. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107152321	Thank you to the rapporteurs for the debate and special thanks to the Danish People's Party, the SF, the Alternative and the Radicals for supporting our proposal. Do you have to be paid twice to do your job? This is basically the issue that this resolution is about. For this is the case for the majority of Danish mayors and regional presidents. They get a good, high salary for their mayor's or regional president's office of between DKK 700,000. and 1.2 million kr. a year, fair enough, but when, as a result of their duties, they have to take care of the work of different boards, it could, for example. be in the local energy company, it could be in the Metro Company, but then they collect additional fees which in many cases reach hundreds of thousands of kroner a year, and that means for some of these mayors that they reach a total income higher than the country's prime minister's income. When, as mayor, you get a salary that is often more than 1 million. kr., so of course you should not at the same time be paid extra to attend some meetings of boards on which you sit as part of your mayor's office. It is simply an expression of a pamphlet. There's nothing else to call it. In fact, it is not the mayors who are responsible for this pamphlet, even though they may not be quite sad that it has ended this way, but it is actually the Folketing, or rather the majority of the Danish Parliament, which just over a year ago entered into an agreement on new rules for pensions and remuneration for politicians. And we're gonna take a little walk down Memory Lane. After years of criticism of the pension and remuneration privileges of politicians, a majority in here reduced the so-called remuneration commission, which was a group of experts and others, to make proposals as to how the salaries and pensions of politicians should look, and compared to the salaries of mayors and regional councillors, the remuneration commission proposed two things. Firstly, they suggested that wages should be increased by 31%, because they felt that it had not followed the general trend in wages. Secondly, they suggested that mayors and regional council presidents should in return in future have set off the additional fees they received on the posts they contested by virtue of their mayor's office in their basic salary; for example, when my own mayor at Frederiksberg, Jørgen Glenthøj, gets DKK 400 000. In order to take care of various board positions, they had to pay 400,000 DKK. is deducted from the basic salary so that his total salary landed on the slightly more than 1.2 million. kr., which is the mayor's salary. But what happened after that in here? In other words, an agreement was made which implemented one recommendation from the remuneration commission, namely the one that raised the salary, that is to say the one you could call the good recommendation, seen with the mayor's glasses, but it was decided to disregard the other recommendation, namely that additional fees should be offset against the salary. Unfortunately, in my opinion, this whole matter is one of these stupid and unfortunate examples that sometimes in here it can go a little too fast to accommodate itself and each other. After all, we are in a special situation where we ourselves legislate on the salaries of politicians, both our own salaries, but also those of our municipal colleagues. I therefore call for extra attention and moderation, and unfortunately I do not think this agreement is an expression of this, especially at a time when welfare is being cut; where poverty is growing; and how many ordinary workers have not exactly experienced flashy wage increases. The same applies to many of the public employees around the country's municipalities. It is a wrong signal to send out that mayors and regional presidents have to raise wages twice to do their job, and that is why, of course, I am very disappointed that a majority in this House will not support this proposal. That is why I also hope that the 'no' parties, those who say no to this proposal, will think about it again during the committee procedure, because it would be so good for the citizens, for our democracy, if we could send out a clear signal before the Danes are going to vote soon, and that would also give the mayor candidates who are candidates an opportunity to assess that if they think that 1.2 million. kr. is far too little for them to take care of the work including board posts, they could find another job instead. It is a pity that there is not a majority, but fortunately there is an opportunity and it is actually a call to those who look with ^ and that is to take this up locally. Ask your mayor's candidates if they intend, if they become mayors, to voluntarily renounce this double salary, just as both councilmen and mayors up in Aalborg, on the initiative of the Enhedslisten, have done. You can actually do that. So ask your mayor's candidates if they're ready and ask them to answer on this side of the election, because unfortunately it doesn't look like we can deliver in the Folketing this time.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107152858	Thank you, sir. Pelle Dragsted. No one has asked for brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs, the Committee on the Interior and the Committee on Children's Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107152914	The debate is open. Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107152934	Thank you. The bill, which we are the first to deal with today, primarily implements parts of the Action Plan for better animal welfare for pigs and the Action Plan for better animal welfare for poultry launched by the former SR government in 2014 and 2015 respectively. Specifically, this is the point on animal welfare education that the draft law we are discussing translates. In the Social Democratic Party, we believe that education in animal welfare is important, because it provides knowledge and understanding of animal welfare, and that is why we are of course also satisfied that today we are being given the opportunity to authorise the Minister to lay down requirements for training in animal welfare for the herd manager for the professional herd of pigs, dairy cattle and laying hens. As far as the bill here is concerned, we are rather surprised that the requirement for education applies only to the crew member and not to all crew members, as was laid down in the action plan. As it is now, training in the field of animal welfare for pigs is under the auspices of the industry, and we do not think this is immediately ambitious enough, and that is why we will examine in committee the possibility of extending the training requirement. Another thing we would like to look at is the recommendations made by the 2012 working group, among others. 3F's •The Green Group, Agriculture & Food, Aarhus University and the Danish Food Authority, joined us. Among other things: recommended that group of feeding, protection of infection and vaccination, which is not directly included in the legislative proposal we are discussing today. We in the Social Democratic Party believe that animal welfare is important, and I would like to remind the government that education is only a step in the right direction, and that is why we in the Social Democratic Party are also looking forward to discussing the other points contained in the aforementioned action plan, and we will, of course, follow this through, both in future legislative proposals and in the context of the legislative proposal in question. Another part of this bill is about publishing control results on animal welfare in the dog sector. The reason for this proposal is the terrible neglect of dogs in the so-called puppy factories in recent years. The aim of a smiley scheme in the dog sector is to reduce the customer base of the illegal puppy factories that do not meet the animal welfare requirements of the legislation. In the Social Democratic Party we would like to point out that the smiley scheme should not be left alone, as a significant part of these kennels are small hobby farming, which will not be covered by the scheme, and we would therefore like to call for a general view of animal welfare in relation to dogs. Overall, the Social Democratic Party is in favour of the bill, but, as I said, we have some concerns that we would like to look at in the course of the committee procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107153227	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Karina Due, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107153243	Thank you. L 72 allows the Minister to lay down rules on training requirements concerning animal welfare for persons responsible for the agricultural holding of animals. DF always welcomes measures to promote animal welfare. Our only report here is that this is the only person responsible for agriculture, and it will therefore be this person who is required to train his staff and to provide important information and information on animal welfare. One might ask whether all those working on a farm should not have the same training. In any case, we in the Danish People's Party will follow very closely whether this form works, and if we see signs of the opposite, we are ready to tighten up and extend the requirement for training to all persons working with the farming community of animals. Another and very important element of this bill is the establishment of the smiley system for dog kennels. This means that registered dog kennels are assessed in relation to animal welfare and quality. If we go out and buy a pizza, we'll see if there's a sour smiley in the window. If it does, we'll go somewhere else and buy our food. Conversely, a happy smiley also means that we can safely buy our food there. You get the same opportunity now when you buy a puppy. This is one of the measures that we launch together with a massive consumer information campaign to make it easier to choose correctly when buying a dog. After all, it is a member of the family that one acquires and that one must be with for many years to come. The Smiley scheme and information campaigns are some of the initiatives that Dansk Folkeparti will launch to make the lives of the puppie factories miserable. Does that solve the whole problem? No, it certainly does not. If there was a way in which we could solve all the problems of puppy factories at once, we would have adopted it a long time ago. I do not think that there is a single member of parliament in here who wants to see more of the horrible cases of breeding puppies in unsympathetic and puppies who are sick and often inbred, resulting in severe suffering. No, the smiley scheme doesn't solve everything, but it gives consumers a better chance to see if it's okay to buy a puppy in a given kennel. We are also very positive that housekeeping is mentioned in the context of a voluntary scheme, in terms of making information publicly available and thus promoting animal welfare. The Danish People's Party is also pleased that with L 72 it will be possible for animal shelters and dog pensions to participate in the smiley scheme. It's been a big wish from the owners of dog pensions. The Danish People's Party naturally supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107153554	Thank you to the rapporteur. And there are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Erling Bonnesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107153608	Thank you. Animal welfare is important and must also be enforced in the large and modern productions, which include a large number of animals. And the current legislation already protects animal welfare well, but it can also be more specific in some areas. This bill specifically strengthens the training requirements of those responsible for the production of pigs, dairy cattle and laying hens. The training requirement must contribute to an even more solid professional knowledge of animal welfare so that we can continue to cherish animals and eat with a clear conscience. In addition, the bill focuses on man's best friend, you might say. The draft law helps to create the power to lay down rules on the publication of the results of checks on compliance with animal welfare legislation in the dog sector. There have been too many serious examples of widespread neglect of dogs in the so-called puppy factories for some time now, and something needs to be done about this. And we must restore confidence and support those dog farmers who treat animals properly, properly and well, and who have legal and serious businesses. The Left generally considers the proper care and treatment of animals to be very important, and we will therefore, of course, vote in favour of the bill. I should also like to welcome the Conservative People's Party and say that they also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107153740	Thank you to the rapporteur. As there are no brief comments, we move on to Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107153750	This bill empowers the Minister to lay down requirements for training in animal welfare for farmers who keep pigs, dairy cattle and laying hens professionally. The bill is the implementation of the action plan for better animal welfare for pigs and the action plan for better animal welfare for poultry. In addition, the bill contains a publication of controls in dog farming. In the Enhedslisten we support initiatives that are moving towards better animal welfare for Danish livestock. Better welfare is urgently needed for animals in our intensive farms with pigs, dairy cattle and laying hens, and we think it is high time that these action plans for better animal welfare were put into practice. We would have liked the bill not only to target herd owners, but also to include all agricultural workers who are supposed to have the daily contact with the animals, so that everyone who works with animals in Danish agriculture in particular has an education in animal welfare. We think that this is only fair. We have taken note of the consultation contribution of the National Organic Association and their scepticism about the draft law, and we will clarify in the forthcoming committee the exact nature of the farm bill and whether it will unduly affect small-scale, versatile organic farms. With these comments, however, I would like to state that the Enhedslisten supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107153934	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107153941	Thank you. Legislative proposal L 72 should provide the legal basis for laying down training requirements on animal welfare. In general, I believe that animal welfare is high in Danish agriculture and that farmers are very aware of their responsibilities in this respect. But better education is never a bad idea, you can always become wiser, and it is gratifying that we are giving farmers the opportunity to gain the latest knowledge in this area rather than imposing even more demands and restrictions on them. However, we must, of course, make sure that it does not become another bureaucratic monster which prevents farmers from doing their job and taking good care of their animals. They should not be forced into a lot of indifferent courses, but rather they should be able to acquire skills they can actually use for something. In conclusion, I would just like to say that the proposal also breaks with the otherwise prevailing trend of increasing restrictions on agriculture, and the Liberal Alliance is at least in favour of this, and that is why we also support the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107154059	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107154105	This proposal introduces the authority to demand training in order to ensure animal husbandry and creates greater openness, and this is basically the right way to go in our view. However, there are several consultation responses which suggest that it would be preferable to see clear rules rather than authorisation, or that there might be an imbalance between the different types of animal husbandry. For example: Ecological Landsforening states that it can become heavy for small organic farms and perhaps too lax for large farms. Dansk Kennel Klub states that all those who are not registered as kennels but still account for half of the puppy sales are not covered. It can also create a bias. So I will listen a little and perhaps ask some questions in the committee's work. On the whole, however, we are in favour of this proposal in the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107154206	There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107154213	Radical Left supports the bill. We think it is logical that people who are responsible for animals should undergo training. In this way, we will increase animal welfare. For us, it is also logical to have transparency about the animal welfare controls that are being carried out. This allows consumers to see where animal welfare is at its peak. With those words, as I said, we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107154239	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur I see in the Chamber is Mrs Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107154243	Hey! I should like to welcome the SF and say that they also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107154248	We have that in place. Then it's Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107154259	Thank you. This is really in the opposite ball street, because the Left was so incredibly nice to greet from us here, but now I actually got down to the Chamber, so I just want to say that the Conservative People's Party supports this bill, this amendment to the Animal Protection Act, so that we make training requirements for those responsible in the crew, so that we always ensure that those responsible have the necessary competences. That is why we also support the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107154320	Thank you. It was the rapporteurs. Then it's the Minister for the Environment and Food.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107154325	Thank you for that, President, and thank the rapporteurs for their positive comments. After all, the draft law proposes the creation of a legal basis in the Animal Protection Act to lay down requirements for training on animal welfare. At the same time, the provision of Section 3a of the Animal Welfare Act will be redrafted, so that in future the provisions only provide for the establishment of training requirements in the field of animal health. It is subsequently intended, on the basis of the Animal Protection Act, to lay down rules on training requirements for the head of the herd for the professional herd of pigs, dairy cattle and laying hens. Setting the training requirements for pigs and laying hens will be the implementation of action areas in the pig action plan and the poultry action plan respectively. At the same time, it has also been considered relevant to include a training requirement for dairy herds. I am very pleased with the planned execution in relation to three such essential forms of production, which often include a large number of animals, where solid basic knowledge of animal welfare is essential. The bill also proposes to introduce a legal basis into the Animal Protection Act to publish animal welfare monitoring results. It will form the basis for the new smiley scheme in the dog sector. The proposed smiley scheme aims to contribute to better consumer information by increasing public awareness and confidence in legitimate dog businesses and serious breeders in the dog sector. Another key objective of the publication scheme is also to reduce the customer base of the illegal puppy factories that do not meet animal welfare requirements. The scheme can thus give animal welfare a boost and make it safer for consumers to buy dogs. Of course, when it comes to creating better welfare for dogs, the scheme cannot stand alone, but must be seen as an element of overall effort. In cooperation with a number of organisations, we have therefore launched several initiatives to improve the situation of our four-legged friends. In those words, I look forward to the committee reading of the draft law and thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107154522	Thank you, Minister. There was a last-minute question. Here you go, sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107154533	It was just a little corner of it. Dansk Kennelklub writes that they actually account for only half of the puppy sales, which means that the other half of the market is quite unregulated. Does the Minister see any possibility of getting that part of the market under control?
ParlaMint-DK_20171107154550	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107154552	Thank you for a good and relevant question. Yes, we are discussing with several actors how we also get that part of the area into our focus point. But it is a challenge, not least because there are so many single actors in this field, and if there is a bad person who wants to sell, and there is also a bad person who wants to buy and who blows on all kinds of animal welfare, something like this can happen, even outside the eyes of the authorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107154618	Then we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107154632	Since we lack the author of the motion for a resolution on the next item on the agenda, I would like to take a deep breath without calling. We are just giving the rapporteur the opportunity to come. With a delay which should not actually occur, we shall now resume the sitting. The debate is open. Minister for the Environment and Food.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107154900	Thank you for that, President. The motion for a resolution deals with afforestation and the contribution of forests to good purposes, for example. biodiversity, clean drinking water and recreational purposes. The government fully agrees that these are important issues and I would like to thank Enhedslisten for putting them on today's agenda. However, we do not agree with the specific content. Indeed, with existing efforts, we are already well placed to ensure both more forest and more biodiversity forest in Denmark, and therefore the government cannot support the proposal either. The Enhedslisten begins by mentioning a target for afforestation from 1989. That target has been adjusted subsequently. We no longer navigate to the goal of increasing the forest area to 25 per cent, but to increase the area with forest landscapes to 20-25 per cent. during a tree generation, which is 80-100 years. Now that it is in place, I will move on to the specific content of the proposal. The Enhedslisten talks about a backlog and proposes that every year over the next 10 years 10,000 hectares of new forest be erected. I have to say that I see no backlog. The Enhedslisten himself points out that around 3,000 hectares of new forest are being erected each year, and this is a very new forest. The Enhedslisten will now triple without in any way indicating where the money will come from. The Enhedslisten also wants there to be more untouched forest because it has a great and good effect on biodiversity. The government fully agrees with this, and that is why we already have a plan to ensure considerably more biodiversity forest in the Danish forests. And I'm proud to say that we are actually doing these things and financing them, unlike part of what Enhedslisten is working with. The Danish Government and the Danish People's Party have decided with the agreement on the Nature Package from spring 2016 to implement the greatest effort on biodiversity in the Danish forests ever. The nature package lays out 10,000 hectares of untouched forest and 3,300 hectares of other biodiversity forest in the state's forests. In addition, private forest owners can receive subsidies for planting forests for biodiversity purposes. Together there will be up to 28,300 ha of untouched forest and other biodiversity forest in the Danish forests. And that is surely an effort for which we have found funding in advance. Finally, Enhedslisten proposes a change to the planning law so that the municipalities are required to set turbo on the establishment of new peace forest and the designation of land for forest, so that the target of the 10,000 hectares per year. years can be reached. There is already a requirement that municipal plans should contain guidelines for the location of afforestation areas in the Planning Act. The Government does not consider that there is a need for additional requirements in it. The government's vision for Denmark's forests is that we must have more forest and that we must have healthy and robust forests and we are in the process of implementing that vision. We must look at forests as a whole, where there must be room for both use and protection; there must be good opportunities for forests to contribute to many purposes, for example. wood production, biodiversity, climate, groundwater protection, open air life and jobs. This can be done if forestry is given the right framework conditions, and that is why I have also chosen that forests and forestry should continue to have their own law in the Forest Act. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107155214	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr President, we have a brief comment to make. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107155223	Thank you. Thank you for the relatively nice reception. Since there is a tempo at the moment, which means that only 3 000 hectares of forest are being set up a year, and when the Minister points out that there was a small reduction in the target, which could be both nature and forest, and when it has the pace it currently has, does the Minister not agree that it is going too slowly? Because it is about 5,000 hectares that should have been set up since 1989 in order to achieve the target if it is the 25% that you are going for. Of course, it's a little less if it's only 20%. That's one thing. Then, with regard to the economy, I see different solutions out there. I see, for example. water plants that make water forests where it does not cost the municipality or state anything, but where it is a water plant that finds a solution and secures its drinking water. So I think it is perfectly legal that there is no specific funding in this proposal. We would like to oblige the government to be more ambitious in order to meet the old objectives that have been set.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107155322	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107155325	Thank you for the question. We always take what Enhedslisten brings, but we also allow ourselves very often to reject it, which we among other things. Doing with this, too. Look, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, you cannot set up as much forest as you can through the financing of water plants if you do not impose an increase in fees on consumers, and it is not at all certain that there is a need to raise as much protection of groundwater resources as Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen wants to start with this proposal. The second part is that there is a gap between the 20 and 25 per cent target, which is why I am confident that we will achieve what we need and that there will be funding for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107155404	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107155405	If you listen to what is happening in the election campaign out in rural municipalities, there is a great deal of concern for our drinking water, and you can see that you can protect our drinking water with organic cultivation and that we are heading over 10%, but you want more tools. That is what I have heard in the municipalities I have visited. You can see that if you get the opportunity to travel more forest, it has a number of pluses, in addition to ensuring drinking water. So I think that the government should listen a little more to the municipal election campaign that runs out there, where you are actually very concerned about the drinking water of the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107155439	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107155442	But we are also listening, but we also note that every municipality is in its right to set up a forest and also to protect the interests of drinking water. They are also obliged in their municipal plans to have clear markings of it, but we just don't think it's a task at Christiansborg to force municipalities to travel forest, but we will leave it up to the municipal autonomy. If there are then municipal councillors who, for one reason or another, might have concerns about drinking water protection, groundwater protection, then one is entitled to draw up a strategy for it in the municipality in relation to the planting of forests.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107155515	We thank the Minister and go to the rapporteur's line. First, it's sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107155522	Thank you. Like the Minister, I would like to thank Enhedslisten for putting forests on the agenda. This is an important issue which I am glad we will have an opportunity to discuss with each other. The expansion of the Danish forest area is important for a large number of reasons. Forests are a very environmentally friendly material when it is transformed into furniture and the like, so all the places where wood can enter into furniture and construction materials are positive. This is, of course, because it can take up the space for other more harmful raw materials, but also because trees can absorb and store CO2 In addition to the climate benefits of a larger forest area, a larger forest area will also mean that more people will have access to enjoy the forest, to come out and use the forest. It can have some advantages in relation to mental health, but also in relation to physical health, because you can move in the forest. Another reason why forest is a good thing is that forest helps, as the rapporteur also mentioned earlier, to ensure clean drinking water, because water forest can be built, but also in general because forest is rarely grown using pesticides. In the Social Democratic Party we believe it is important that we fight to preserve Danish biodiversity and, as the Enhedslisten's proposal points out, there is a great need for a near-natural forest management so that biodiversity in forests can be increased. Furthermore, if we increase our share of forest, it is also a sensible and cheap way to increase Danish biodiversity. There are therefore many good reasons for drawing up a forest plan which could lead to a greater forest area and thus to increased biodiversity. However, what we are adopting here in the Danish Parliament must also be thoroughly worked out, and of course that requires funding. Indeed, it costs quite a lot of money to set up a peace forest in, for example, private forests, and it also costs a lot of money to convert a state-owned forest into a peace forest, because the state then misses the income of forest production. That is why Social Democracy sympathises with the intentions of more forest, the intentions of the proposal, and we are so positive in working for more forest and more peace forest in Denmark, but we are not convinced that it is sensible, as the proposal here says, to impose on the government or parliament some very concrete objectives that have not been found funding to meet, but the Social Democracy is happy to enter into broad political discussions, also with the government, on how we can increase the forest area in Denmark. So, with those, I think, very positive comments in relation to the proposal, the Social Democrats cannot support the proposal itself, but we are very happy to support the work to establish more forest and peace forest in Denmark. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107155828	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Carsten Bach. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107155835	Thank you and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I just noticed at one point, and that is why I was impressed by the rapporteur's statement and now the rapporteur must correct me if it is not right to increase biodiversity by increasing the proportion of forests. It is quite true that I do not like the terms very much, but because we are used to using those terms, I am also using them here, too, of untouched forests and so-called biodiversity forests, which need to be increased so that we can stop the decline in biodiversity.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107155917	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107155919	I think that is quite a fine clarification of Mr Beazley's report. Carsten Bach, because it is obvious that if you increase the forest area with production forest, the promise in natural quality will now just use a more mouth-right concept of course be limited, whereas if we lay down a forest of peace or biodiversity, it will really make a boost in biodiversity or in the quality of nature. So it is obvious that if we are really going to do something about biodiversity, it is peace forest or biodiversity forest that we must build. And I think it is worth noting that various researchers point to that one of the cheapest ways to strengthen nature quality is actually to build more forest. That is also why I tried to give the proposal so many positive words on the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107160007	Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107160012	Thanks for receiving me. I can hear that the Social Democrat rapporteur can also fully see the benefits, all the different facets and all the pluses that are getting more forest. Then there is some concern about the economics, but we have, in this proposal, put forward the idea that the government should come up with a plan, and that would of course also mean that it was financed and that we could unfold what opportunities it is that water plants have and where it is around the country that water plants have found solutions that have actually enabled a lot of forest to be set up without it having even affected municipal taxes. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether there will be no possibility of modeling agricultural aid too, so that we could promote environmental measures which had to do with forest on agricultural land and help finance that conversion, since it is a little expensive to set up forests.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107160108	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107160109	Thank you. And thank you for the comments made by Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen. I think it is positive that there are some reports on funding from the Enhedslisten, because that is, of course, what is missing from the proposal, which is very ambitious. As I read the proposal, it is imagined that 100 000 hectares of additional forest will be built within 10 years, and it is clear that it will be very expensive to finance. Then you can finance it from the Finance Act, you can finance it from municipal taxes, or you can finance it from water plants and thus in practice through a higher payment from water customers. Regardless of how and how it will be something to be financed, and we would like to take part in looking at different funding needs, but I think that although a discussion on how to promote forest in Denmark is an important discussion, the discussion should be conducted in parallel with the discussion on funding, otherwise it is not really serious.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107160207	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107160211	Well, we would very much like to discuss different solutions with regard to funding, and I am convinced that the municipalities and KL can contribute with what experience has been gained recently and what solutions have been arrived at. It is all from the fact that there are farmers who are paid for helping to set up forests, to the fact that it is the water plants that finance it and that it is therefore the water consumers who will pay for it. But it does not have to be more socially wrong than if it is the municipal tax or the money from the Treasury that helps to finance it. We are completely open to unfolding what kind of funding there is.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107160247	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107160248	I think I will conclude by noting that Enhedslisten has a wish that we build more forests in Denmark. The intention and objective share the social democracy, and we are very happy to contribute to the discussion on how that objective can be achieved. But it is clear that the financing of the political desire must, of course, go hand in hand with the discussion on how the desire can be translated into real policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107160315	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Pia Adelsteen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107160324	Thank you. The proposal here is to set up more forests, as some have already said. The Enhedslisten proposes that 10,000 hectares of new forest be established for 10 years. We need to change the law on plans so that municipalities are forced to plan more forests and establish more biodiversity forests. At first glance, it seems really positive. I hate to say blue block, but before the last parliamentary elections we did it in the blue room that we made a proposal to put more of the state forests into untouched forest precisely to increase biodiversity. We received a very long calculation from the then Minister for the Environment that it was not possible at all to do so, that we had calculated quite wrong and it would be much more expensive than we had calculated, so it went into the garbage bin. But the point is that when you make forests, you can make untouched forests, and then you get an increased form of biodiversity. However, I did a little bit with regard to the proposal. First of all, I think that we in the Danish People's Party, together with the government, have just entered the agricultural and food package and have set aside funds for private afforestation, namely 35 million. kr. From 2017 to 2021, and in addition to this, the State also makes some afforestation. That's one thing. The second point is that when I read the proposal, there is simply something I do not understand, because when you talk about municipalities being forced through the law of plans to build more forests and establish more biodiversity forests, I have an idea that it is probably not the City of Copenhagen that we are talking about. It may be a little provocative to say, but it is not out here that more forest is being established. So it is all other municipalities that will then have to find a form of funding which will then have to buy up land, which will then have to establish some forest for x number of crowns per. acres. You might think that's really good, or you might think it's bad, but at least there are places where there are lots of woods. Gribskov in Nordsjælland is actually Denmark's fourth largest forest. I was a little surprised it was actually so big, I hadn't thought about that. But we actually have a lot of woods. It may well be that the target set back in 1989 has not been achieved. No, but if you don't set the targets high enough, they're not ambitious, and then when we don't get to them, we're a bunch of punks. That's how politics always works. I think it is basically a good thing that more land should be set aside for the forest, but it must be done at a pace so that we can keep up with purely economics, so that private landowners too think it is okay and that things are moving at the pace that I think is reasonable at least. That's the other thing. A third point is that Enhedslisten writes in their comments on the proposal that most of the current forests are production forests where trees are in streamlined rows and species are few. If we are to have biodiversity and magic back in our forests, we must have more untouched forests with large grazing herbivores, no drainage and light-open areas. When we talk about forests, you get light-open areas, either if you have cattle to go and chew, so that it doesn't all jump in the woods. It's the one way to do it or you're out and you're out and you're taking out some trees. And it's some kind of forestry. Then there is something that I simply do not understand, but the Enhedslisten's rapporteur can certainly explain that to me at some point, and that is that a forest plan should aim for near-forestry that word I simply do not understand. So I would very much like to have that explained. For what is nature-like forestry? I don't understand. I know that when you're out today to remove trees and harvest them for all these furniture that you think is sustainable and good and all that sort of stuff we need wood for, that is, for houses etc. This is not very good for biodiversity. But the Enhedslisten's proposal on close-to-earth forestry is that we go back to the way it was when my father was a forest bailiff and carried a saw around, or what are we supposed to do? At any rate, there are some economic things that speak against us merely listening to this proposal. And again I would say that it is not because we in the Danish People's Party are against forest, because we are not, but it requires that you have money for it. At any rate, I think that there are two things in this proposal that I cannot support, and that is that you force the municipalities to do something, and the other thing is that you have to find the money somewhere, and I do not know where it should be.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107160827	Thank you. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107160832	I think it is very good if this is borne by what you want locally, what you want locally. Therefore, there isn't much to do. It's kind of up to the municipalities to make that planning. And it is clear that in Copenhagen and at Frederiksberg there are fewer opportunities to travel forest than there are in rural municipalities. Of course. But if I listen to what is happening in the election campaign around me, I hear that in some places it is very much borne by the desire to protect your drinking water, and that in this way it is what causes you to want more forest. The funding is important. If I look at what is in forest plans in Aarhus, I can see that there are land laid out for the next 10 years, and the funding that has been allocated makes it take 10 years to realise it. You've made the wish list. If you look at Odder Municipality, you can see that the wish list is also there, and it is carried by where it is, there are recreational values and where it is that there is groundwater that needs to be protected. The planning has been carried out in some municipalities. We would then like to see an even better way of working together across municipal boundaries so that we can have larger forest areas. But I think they should be locally grounded. And that is what bears our proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107160939	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107160941	As I understand from the rapporteur, some kind of priority has already been set out locally and resources have been set aside so that we are actually on the way. Then perhaps I just have even more difficulty understanding the proposal, because why change the rules of the planning law, why do more, I was just saying when you are already in the municipalities trying to find funding where it makes sense? That's one thing. The second thing is that there must also be places where there are municipalities that say: well, we do not really want that. Well, I guess that's fair too. Now that is not possible here in Copenhagen or at Frederiksberg, as the rapporteur also says, and as I mentioned myself. This isn't where it's gonna happen. But if there are places where you want it, it's fine that you do it. Then it is also good that you find finance yourself. Then I just find it a little difficult to understand why we should then draw up a national forest plan, in which some municipalities may be dictated to do something that they basically do not want.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107161045	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107161047	The reason why we need a national forest plan is, of course, that one has previously defined a measure of how much forest one should have in Denmark as a whole. And when you look at the figures, you can see that a growth of 3,000 ha a year is far too little to reach the target... you should actually drive out there with 5,000 ha. That is why it is reasonable for us here in the Danish Parliament to take the debate, since there is an old decision to be more ambitious and you can see from the figures that that is not where we are going. Then it is fair that we should take this debate and perhaps come to a conclusion and perhaps also make some sort of collection of what it really is for some wishes that are out there in the municipalities and make the municipalities play more closely. But I think it is perfectly reasonable to try to follow up an objective previously adopted in this House.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107161131	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107161133	To this extent, I fully agree with the proposer that it is always good to look at the objectives that have been set in the past. I also think it is always good, if you think that the objectives are wrong, that you change them. We could do that, too. Again, I would just like to say, as I said a moment ago, that it is a little strange when we are setting objectives in here and setting a percentage for something we would like to do. If, according to some, it's too low, it's not ambitious enough, and if it gets too tall, so you don't reach it, we're a bunch of clutterheads. Perhaps that is what has happened here with the objective adopted back in 1989. It may be that the target has been too high. But then we can just regulate it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107161219	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Left, Mrs Anni Matthiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107161228	Thank you for that and thank you to the Enhedslisten for ensuring that we will also be debating forests here in Parliament today. I can also begin by saying that in the Left we will be voting against this resolution. We in the Left agree with a great many of the intentions contained in the motion for a resolution. We agree that we need to work on our forest land and that we also need to ensure and improve our biodiversity. Then we also agree that we must also ensure both good and important natural experiences for the Danes. This is one of the things that is very high on the Danes' agenda. So we agree entirely with that. But I can also reassure Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur that, fortunately, we are doing very well with this work. In fact, unlike the former Socialist-led government, the current government, which was otherwise a government which also the proposer actually supported, has given historical attention to the efforts in our forests. Because while the former Red Government was busy focusing on how to make good agricultural land for nature areas, what we have said in the Left is that we would really like to focus on getting more biodiversity efforts in forests. And there is really good reason for this, because it is the case that you get much more species and more nature for the money, and indeed there are very many experts who have been out saying exactly the same thing. That's why we in the Left have got to grips with this. We have done so and said so before the elections and supported it, and we are doing so today too. That Enhedslisten might not think that our efforts are sufficient, I might as well have a little difficulty understanding. Because, of course, you can always do things better, but it also requires you to find money to do things better. That is at least one of the things I have been looking for in the motion for a resolution: where will the money come from? All in all, with our nature package, we have helped to increase biodiversity efforts in the Danish forests, perhaps more than ever. In addition to that, we have set aside a great many millions for private afforestation grants. When I get around the municipalities, as I can also hear the Enhedslisten's rapporteur doing, I think it is actually gratifying to see that we welcome the proposals we have made here in Parliament and that we are well on the way to planting more wood as well. So all in all, I have to say that unfortunately we are going to vote against the resolution and, above all, because it can be said that we have to find the money before we can use it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107161541	Thank you. There is a question from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107161546	After all, the proposal is like requiring the government to draw up a forest plan. That is to say, if the government looks at it, you will also be able to look closely at what kind of funding you can imagine. It could be that the government was so creative that new ways could be found to lay out and involve waterworks, etc. It could be that the government came to the conclusion that EU agricultural aid could be modelled in such a way as to promote greater forest areas. I actually see more options. However, the proposal is like giving the government the ball on the basis of the objective previously adopted by the Folketing. I think that is actually quite fair. Instead of making very detailed resolutions, we have looked at: there is an old objective here, and what has happened since 1989? There is a climate agenda and there is an agenda to save our drinking water that has become more topical. So it is, as I see it, worth sticking to an ambitious objective. Does the rapporteur not think that 3 000 hectares of extra forest per year are too little in relation to the objective?
ParlaMint-DK_20171107161652	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107161653	First of all, perhaps on behalf of the government, I can say thank you for the ball, which has been thrown by the Enhedslisten's rapporteur. I would also say that when you sit in government, you may also sometimes find that just finding the money is not always the easiest task, because there are a lot of people who really want to spend the money. Finally, on the question raised by the rapporteur, i.e. whether I think it is too ambitious with regard to the number of hectares that are being targeted today in relation to forest, I would say that no, I do not think so. In fact, I think that with the nature package that we created, we have been ambitious. And we're on our way.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107161738	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107161740	But what has been decided is not at all something that can live up to the ambition that was to establish 5,000 hectares of extra forest a year in such a time period of 80-100 years. That is the ambition that has remained there in 1989 when we were dealing with it and putting the big plan in place. I think it would be important to review whether, with the agendas that are now, with CO2 problems and groundwater problems, we should find out whether we should not set the target even higher or find other instruments.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107161816	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107161817	Well, thank you for the question. As I said in my last reply, I think we are really, really ambitious. And then I would like to acknowledge that Enhedslisten may have a higher level of ambition compared to how much of our country is to be planted with forest. As Enhedslisten's rapporteur himself has also said, there are also places around in some municipalities where you might choose to plant forest. I actually think that we should just acknowledge this from here, even if it is not something that is imposed here in the Chamber. But the municipalities are free to do so if there are some places where they also want to plant forest.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107161900	We thank the rapporteur of the Left. Then it's mr. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107161909	Thank you, sir. President. In the Liberal Alliance we love free and wild nature and thus also free and wild forest. Of course, it should not be more wild than that everyone has the opportunity to take advantage of the forest and nature but free and wild. In the Liberal Alliance, and fortunately now in the government too, we do not like what we call public theft. It does not matter whether it is the transport of waste, recycling policies, Internet connections, etc., or whether it is commercial agriculture and forestry. It is, and will not be, a task for which the State has to carry out an effective private market. On the other hand, there is not too free and wild forest and other nature. That is why I and the Liberal Alliance also agree with the Enhedslisten that the state must have a plan and strategy for more free and wild nature, which I believe is the real main intention behind the resolution here. I would also like to thank the motion for a resolution tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, Mr Enhedslisten, for presenting the motion for a resolution so that we can have the debate. It will get Denmark back on track, writes the Enhedslisten in the title of the motion for a resolution on the proposed 10-year forest plan, which the Liberal Alliance, incidentally and obviously, cannot support. For this means that I and others must understand that Denmark should not be on the track. But does Enhedslisten really think so? It can always be discussed how fast we should be driving on the tracks, but that it is running on track, I certainly do not think that we can be discussed. In the forests of the state, over the next few years, 10,000 hectares of forest are being laid aside for new so-called untouched forest and 3,300 hectares for other so-called biodiversity forest. Overall, and this is so including existing untouched forest and biodiversity forest, this means that approx. 20% of the state's forest area will have biodiversity as its main purpose in some years. In addition, subsidies for the same development in private forests. Overall, I guess new forest will be erected as never before. Most recently, as can be seen from the background to the motion for a resolution, the area has been set at 15.5%, and whether we are landing at 18 per cent. 20% or 20%. or 22%. by the year 2100 is not decisive for the Liberal Alliance. The crucial thing for the Liberal Alliance is that the state's share of total commercial Danish forestry is declining and eventually completely dismantled, so that the state only delivers free and wild forest and nature to the Danes. That is why the Liberal Alliance, together with the rest of the government and the Danish People's Party, is part of the natural package from 2016, and we are very happy about that. The nature package and also the food and agriculture package address precisely the need that Enhedslisten believes to meet with B 15. In the packages, in contrast to the motion for a resolution, funding for the solutions has been found here. As I said, there is a lot of focus on forest in the packages. This is good, because there is a need also because of biodiversity, where more free and wild forest is probably the most effective way to deal with the current decline in biodiversity. But we must not forget the rest of nature, the light-open nature. Afforestation is expensive, but it is also a generational investment which we already take care of to a sufficient extent, as we invest in our children. But nature is also like people: it can actually do itself, if otherwise it is allowed. Nature may need a little help in setting up in some places and may also need to be adjusted a little if it has taken a bad direction. But otherwise it can actually do it on its own. Forests, as a natural type, do not have exclusive rights over the side benefits as groundwater protection initiatives. Other habitat types may be. By the way, Denmark may well have the world's best monitoring and alert system for our groundwater and also, worldwide, a professionally and very highly recognised and respected certification system for pesticides for agriculture. Neither myself nor the Liberal Alliance were represented in the Danish Parliament in 1989 and, as I understand the Minister, the strategy has fortunately also changed and nuanced since then to be 20-25 per cent. forest landscape at the end of this century. I believe that we are so on track and therefore the Liberal Alliance cannot support the Enhedslisten motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107162452	There is a question from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107162456	If you are going up to 20%, it is not enough that 3 000 extra hectares per year are being set up with new forests. There will be no more forest because of changing the nature of something that has already been set up. I think it is quite fine that the Enhedslisten and the Liberal Alliance can agree that there should be more biodiversity in our forests and that we should have something untouched forest that has a special quality. I quite agree with that. I also believe that there is a great possibility that more would happen if all municipalities were to make more serious planning and, at the same time, if it were to be possible for municipalities to find more funding to travel more forest. There may then be some municipalities that choose that there should be land that should jump in the forest and thus be able to establish natural areas in a cheaper way, but I think it is entirely up to the municipal self-government to make that planning. But I think that when there are these national objectives and you can see on the curves that we do not reach them, it is fair that we should take this debate in the Assembly. Does the rapporteur not agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20171107162600	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107162601	I certainly agree that we can have a debate in this Chamber. It is probably the whole basis of the people's regime that we can have the debate and that we can have it in several rounds. I think that's amazing. On the subject of new forests and biodiversity, I also had a comment to make to the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party, because the creation of new forests is not quite equal to increasing or slowing down the decline in biodiversity. It is precisely the fact that, as the questioner himself says, we are changing the nature of the existing forest, that we are moving from commercial forestry to a more natural forest with the aim of increasing biodiversity or, perhaps, right over to what is very popularly referred to as untouched forest, which some researchers have designated to be perhaps the most effective tool for curbing the decline in biodiversity.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107162701	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107162703	It is very good to discuss what has the highest quality. And there I just have to say that when we go on our agricultural land we have 1 million. Ha with feed for pigs and 1 million. I can easily see that, with animal feed for other animals, the area could be reduced and that there could be some natural and forest land that gave more biodiversity than the huge cereal fields that we have out there. So I think there is every reason to convert more of our agriculture into nature and forest. Does the rapporteur not agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20171107162736	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107162737	I can then, with emphasis and bold types, guarantee the questioner that I do not agree with that. On the other hand, I can inform the questioner that my position and that of the Liberal Alliance is that each private pilot should be allowed to decide for himself how he will run his agriculture or forestry. What I addressed before was the land of the state, and I believe that as politicians we have a clear obligation to go in where there is no free and commercial market, and as I just emphasised in my speech, deliver free and wild nature to the Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107162814	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then we move on to Mr. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107162824	Thank you. I love woods, and I might as well say that right away, and that's why I've been sitting there trying to figure out more plans, all the good things that are at the forest. I found out that woods are win-win, but not just win-win. I have actually reached six wins, and some of them mention Enhedslisten in his proposal. It's in climate where we get bound CO2 but there's also a win on the landscape. Forests do something special about our landscape. It's breaking up the landscape. There are also wood products; wood is an amazing material. Look at the platform I'm standing on here. It has lasted for many years, and it can wood as material. Then there's the outdoors. Even untouched forest works well with a rich and varied outdoor life, and there I am glad that here in the proposal I can read that you want more magic, because that is also one of the things the forest can do. It can create magic. When I'm in the woods, sometimes I can't help but hugging a tree because that way you can feel the age of the forest and the basic nerve to life that is in the woods. So I would like to commend the proposers here for taking due care. I think we should stick to the 1989 target and I think it is important to make a plan and get what we are behind and that it is reasonable to do so over a 10-year period. So, on the whole, I would like to pay a great deal of praise and, of course, we agree with the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107163032	There is a question from Mr. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107163036	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. It was really just to ask whether the rapporteur will not also recognise that there is in fact a win in other natural habitats than precisely forest when we talk about groundwater protection.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107163056	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107163057	Yes, I can confirm that. If you release some nature in different forms, and especially if you do not use pesticides of any kind or fertilizers, then there is a groundwater protection for many different habitat types, and the forest is one of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107163122	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the radical rapporteur, and that is Mr. Andreas Steenberg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107163132	It is Mrs Ida Auken who is the rapporteur on the motion for a resolution, but in her absence I have to read out the Radical Left's speech and also welcome from the SF. The Radical Left fully agrees with Enhedslisten that it is going too slowly to meet the objective of doubling the forest area in Denmark. Forests can do a lot. In addition to being one of the Danes' favourite objectives in nature, forest can also store CO2 It can protect drinking water if you plant forest on top of drinking water resources. And then forests are important for biodiversity because they are home to many animals and plants. We are very positive about creating a genuine forest action plan. We ourselves have proposed something similar in the past. We want such a plan to be thought of together with Nature Plan Denmark, so that we have exploited as much natural potential as possible. On the other hand, we do not see how Enhedslisten will fund this resolution. We would like to enter into a constructive dialogue with the proposers and see if we can agree to examine a number of sources of funding to increase the forest area in Denmark. I welcome from the SF and say that they have the same comments as the Radical Left on the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107163251	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then we move on to the Conservative rapporteur, and that is Mrs Mette Abildgaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107163302	Thank you for that, President. And thank you to the Enhedslisten for having tabled this motion for a resolution. In fact, I think it is a very fine motion for a resolution, understood in the sense that one can see and read from the text that some energy has been put into drafting. It is a very fine text that follows this resolution, so to speak praise for a good preparatory work. I think it must be said that it has been. It is clear that I would have liked to have had a longer paragraph at the end, which was about the funding of this proposal, but that is also what several of the other rapporteurs have been talking about. But that should not prevent me from praising the rest. As others have said, these objectives were set back in 1989 and since then they have been adjusted. I have to admit that when I read the submission text, it was actually new to me that this objective existed. I simply did not realize that there was a target of 20-25 per cent. or 25%, depending on which version you take it was actually a bit of a surprise to me. I think it's a very high number. In fact, I think it is very ambitious. I think it is a great deal that a quarter or up to a quarter of Denmark's area should be covered by forest. So I have also learned more from this debate that we are having today. There is no doubt that forest can do much. We know that forest is one of the most important tools if we want to ensure better biodiversity. We know that of the six out of ten red-listed species living in the forests, many live only in the forests, nowhere else, so this is a very central place for us to take action. That is why I am quite glad that this has actually been a high priority for both the present and the previous governments. There may be a whole lot we disagree about, across the red and blue block and the bias and everything else, but I really think it is reasonably indisputable that the effort made in relation to untouched forest and biodiversity forest in the nature package that has been made is quite large in Danish natural policy context. But it was also necessary, it was time for the necessary priorities to be set. I also think, in fact, that the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, Mr President. Carsten Bach, had some very fine and correct considerations in his speech in relation to this • now I hope that I interpret it just about right; it is always dangerous to plunge into the fact that it is interesting enough to look at the number of hectares, but that we really should also look at the use of them. And there I fully agree that far too much is being used today for commercial operations, where we could use these natural areas much better in a way where it did not outperform private actors and where we got more nature for the money in the end. I think we should continue to discuss how we can do this. The Conservative People's Party will reject this proposal because no further funding has been provided, but we are also pleased with the efforts of the government in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107163556	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we have reached the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, and that is precisely what Mr von der Vring said. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107163610	Thank you. Thank you for the debate. This proposal, which we have discussed here, is aimed at drawing up a forest plan to ensure that the national target of 1989 for doubling the forest area within a tree generation is achieved. So far, things have gone too slowly. The forest plan must ensure that the backlog is recovered within 10 years. Overall, this means that for the next 10 years, 10,000 hectares of forest are to be set up each year with a commitment to peace. That is what we have been discussing. I think we have had a good debate and I think that getting a larger forest area in Denmark will be a hot topic in the future too. If you look at what kind of forestry we have had in Denmark and what has happened to shifts over the last 30 years, it is significant. From the fact that there has been such a production forest on the majority of the area, it has been established that it is also natural values that are weighted in planning. And it is impressive what has happened in state and municipal forests. A number of critical comments on funding have been made in this debate, and this is of course interesting in a rich country where 66 billion are on the way here in Parliament. kr. In the case of the purchase of new fighter aircraft, the fact that we are tabling a motion for a resolution in which we would like to impose a plan on the government will make the funding the biggest problem. I have found, through my participation in a fisheries package, that when it comes to implementing policy, it can be an advantage for the authorities to be involved in the things that have to be put into practice. That is why it is reasonable that when we table motions for resolutions, we cannot always provide total funding, but must leave it up to the government to come up with something that identifies how it should be financed. And if we had included funding in this proposal, I am sure some people would have said that we do not like it, we do not want anything else. I think there is good reason to take a deep look at whether EU agricultural aid could be modelled within the funds that can be prioritised for the environment, in order to promote more forested areas in Denmark, and to promote planning, where municipalities went in more and looked at what kind of afforestation they want in their municipality within the next 10-20-30 years. Some municipalities have done so. There are also some municipalities that have made a rather detailed planning for what it is then for some land that you do not want to have forests on. It may be landscape interests that mean that in certain areas you do not want there to be forest, and I think it is good that the municipalities are seriously involved. But when you look at the plans that are in the municipalities and what is on the wish list and how many years it will take to realise everything, I think there is good reason to look at whether we, too, from the Folketing, can come up with how more can be achieved. And I think it is thought-provoking when water plants are so actively involved in finding solutions that can secure our drinking water in the future and ensure that more forests are raised. It has happened south of Odense, where a water forest has been created, where it is the water plant that is inside and funding the drinking water protection. That's one way to do it. If new initiatives can be developed where it can be done in a different way, then we in the Enhedslist are open to it. But it must also be said that the forest areas in the municipal and state forests where the right of all men applies and where one can travel all over the place, thus having an extra plus. It's a disadvantage to get a lot of privately owned woods. I am well aware that there are some who think it's a plus, but there's that minus about it, that that magic that you can experience in the woods, that all people can be allowed to walk gentlely, in their own way, outside paths and roads, has some potential that certainly has a huge value in life for many people. And it is good that you can unfold it freely in a publicly owned forest, where it is actually legal to do so, instead of having to sneak around and find mushrooms in a private forest and have a bit of a bad conscience, because you don't really know if the owner is coming in a little bit and saying you've gotten a little too far from the path. It has some qualities to have these public forests, and I also think that the people who walk in those forests build some kind of ager in a forest and know how to behave when you're out in the wild. There are huge pluses in establishing more forest, and I think that with the climate problems we have in the world, where there is a great deal of focus on what kind of CO2 it is, but it is also a huge plus if we in Denmark can manage to grow our land in a different way. It could be a plus that we're going to have more natural areas. It may be a plus that we arrive at the creation of more forest that can store CO2 Then it is my impression that this pure drinking water thing is more important now than it was in 1989. In 1989 it was probably such a matter of course. Now we are in something where we are constantly experiencing that the more you search for poisons in our drinking water, the more poisons you find. When I visited Ærø recently, pure drinking water was one of the most important topics in their election campaign. It puzzled me a little, but then they told me that they had some boreholes and that they had a drilling town near Marstal, where they cleaned the water. Then they could mix it with some drinking water that came from agricultural land where the limit values had been exceeded, and if you were to mix the water, you came below the limit values and then it could go at this stage. But the concern was there. What about a few years from now? And what if we come to the conclusion that on an island where there are 1 hour ferry services, we are going to transport drinking water to the island? I can honestly understand that this was a theme in the election campaign. Maybe it's a little special when it's an island. But when I look around elsewhere in East Jutland, I can see that there is also a deep concern. In Aarhus you are in the middle of a conflict with some farmers who will not accept that they get a certain amount of money to stop using poison on their agricultural land to take account of our future drinking water. If, in such areas, you could end up with more forest, then it could also be a solution rather than giving farmers money to stop using poison on our agricultural land. I think there is a prospect that the conflicts that have occurred in agriculture just during this parliamentary period will probably increase, as there will be an increased interest in ensuring clean drinking water for future generations. There, this increased afforestation has a huge potential, and I think we need to take care of it in the best way and stick to the fact that there must be ambitious targets for us to have travelled more forest in Denmark. In other words, I would like to thank all the rapporteurs for having made committed contributions and, in particular, to thank the rapporteurs who were partly or mainly in agreement with the Enhedslisten in it. I can see that there is good reason to discuss further how to find funding for more forest and help municipalities to see the opportunities that are already there. And then we must work politically to see whether agricultural subsidies can be modelled or we can find other means to promote more forest. Thank you for the debate so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107164400	It gave rise to a question from Mr. Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107164403	Thank you for that and thank you again for tabling the motion for a resolution. And thank you for the debate. In my rapporteur's speech, I asked a single question about this whole rhetoric about being on the track, and in fact I actually think that, unlike Enhedslisten, we are and that it is running on track, I also said, in order to, you might say, expand the rhetoric a little there. Then Enhedslisten actually believes that we are off track in Denmark when we talk about afforestation etc.? In the course of the rapporteur's speech here, I got the feeling that the rapporteur from the platform is wrinkling a little on the nose of private forest. I thought it might be a little weird. Does Enhedslisten actually believe that high natural value or high recreational value cannot be achieved with private forest?
ParlaMint-DK_20171107164457	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107164458	As far as private forests are concerned, guests can only walk on roads and paths. If you are the type who would like to go out throughout the landscape and look for mushrooms and berries and get the experiences that are outside the paths, then you have actually walked on something that is not legal to walk. It gives a different experience than if you go out into nature and, what to say, there is a perfectly legal way. So there is a restriction on private forests. As to whether or not we are on track: but if we are to achieve the goal that we had left in 1989 then we should reduce it to only 20%.'s area that is supposed to be nature so 3,000 ha a year is not enough. So you're not on the path. You're on a path that ends in a place where you don't reach the target. It is, of course, there that the efforts that are being made now are not sufficient. That is why it is fair that we should have this debate in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107164600	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107164601	Thank you. I am glad that at the last minute the rapporteur will be able to correct this with the objective. For now, as the Minister pointed out in his speech, this is not the objective of 1989, we are really working on, but some other assumptions about 20-25 per cent. forest landscape. The rapporteur just got it right at the last minute, and I thought that was fine. Just at the end of the day, I would like to ask you about this with the groundwater-protective effect, i.e. if the rapporteur can not confirm that it can actually be other natural habitats than precisely forests that can have this groundwater-protective effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107164639	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107164640	Anything other than pesticide agriculture and urban behavior that poses a risk of pollution is, after all, a plus for drinking water. So larger natural areas can also be a major contribution to securing our groundwater. But there is just the special thing that once we have established a peace forest on an area, it has special protection. That is why I think it is a particular objective to come to the conclusion that we have more peace forest owned jointly in municipalities and states.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107164713	Then there was a question from Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107164716	Thank you. These were the last things that Enhedslisten's rapporteur was about here, which probably meant that I just had to get out of the chair. I assume that once in a while the Enhedslisten's rapporteur is out in the world and sees how things work elsewhere. And it sounds as if the drinking water we have at home is quite horrible and more or less toxic, in other words, in relation to the way the Enhedslisten's rapporteur describes it. So could the Enhedslisten's rapporteur not confirm that we actually have clean drinking water in this country?
ParlaMint-DK_20171107164759	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107164800	No, I can't confirm that. Because there are more and more drinking water wells being closed. And lately we have seen that one has begun to investigate for another toxic substance, and then it turned out that more drilling had to be closed because of it. So I am, in fact, deeply concerned, and I am also a little concerned about whether we are in a situation where, although we are slowing down now in terms of using fewer toxins, there will be toxins going into our groundwater, so we will end up cleaning our drinking water. I think it would be a quality deterioration to achieve this. So I think we should be more careful than we are now. And I can only see that the municipalities are looking for something to secure their drinking water for future generations, and it is good to have more keys to play on. Organic farming can be one of them, and getting the forest up can be another. And if you could get to the establishment of natural land without it being forest, then that's a third thing. So I think there is every reason to find out locally how best to ensure drinking water. But I think it's grotesque to see how in some places you drive the poison sprayer 15 meters from a drinking water well. It's not due diligence.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107164913	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107164914	I can hear that I do not get the rapporteur to confirm that it is in fact the case that Danish agriculture generally complies with the rules. But what I can perhaps get the rapporteur to confirm is that the drinking water we have here at home is significantly, significantly better compared to the world. And I hope that is what the rapporteur says when he is around in the municipal election campaign, so that not only do we talk things down but we also try to talk things out.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107164950	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107164950-2	I would like to address the agenda on the importance of saving the drinking water of our future. It is true that some farmers have used legal means and then find out that this has caused problems for our drinking water, and then bans the poisons. The long list of toxic substances, which has been banned over time, is becoming longer and longer, which means that it was wrong for society to allow such toxins. I think we should learn from this and ban even more toxins.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107165024	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107165049	The debate is open. I give the floor to the Minister for Education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107165105	Let me start by stating that the government cannot support the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution to reduce the number of pupils in primary schools. But that is why I am glad that this is being brought up, because it gives us the opportunity to have an important debate on the quality of primary school and on where a decision on, for example, the quality of school is being taken. The class quotient should be taken. As it is today, the class ceiling, that is to say, as set out centrally from, is 28 pupils, and in special cases it may be 30 pupils. The motion for a resolution instructs the government to reduce the current ceiling to 24 pupils in all classes in all primary schools. A general reduction in the class ceiling will cost 1.7 billion. kr. That is a lot of money, and the question is whether this is the right way to spend so much money while reducing the right and opportunity for municipalities to prioritise. We do not believe that in the government. To that extent, I agree with the factual data used for the resolution. It is true that there has been an increase in the average class ratios. Over the last decade it has increased from just over 20 to just under 22 pupils, and it is true that the student-teacher ratio has also been increasing, but still remains stable around 13 pupils per year. teacher in the last four years of school. Moreover, it is true that the search for free primary schools has increased. In Denmark, as you know, we have municipal autonomy; it is the municipalities that are responsible for the primary schools, and therefore it is also local that most decisions have to be made, and if the state starts to decide how much money the individual classes should have, then we are stubborn at local freedom. The needs of students vary around Denmark, which is why some schools need more money than others, and schools need to be able to use their funds in different ways. We can see this from the considerable differences in expenditure per person. pupils between municipalities, where some municipalities spend almost twice as much per year. students like other municipalities. According to the Ministry of the Interior's municipal key figures, the cost of a primary school student in 2016 was thus DKK 50,000. in municipalities with the lowest level of expenditure, while in municipalities with the highest level it was more than DKK 90,000. There are many factors that affect the academic level of pupils, and this cannot simply be reduced to the number of pupils in the class. The research is not unique, but mainly shows that class sizes have relatively limited significance for the professional level. That is why it is also a bad idea to control the class ratio, because that means that the individual schools are deprived of their freedom to do what is best suited to them. In my view, it is the municipalities in dialogue with schools and parents who are the best at assessing and setting the framework for class education. It is the municipalities, the schools that are closest to school reality, and it is also they who set and allocate resources to individual schools. In a few weeks' time, citizens will have to vote in local elections, and there you can imagine that the framework of the school will be a very important theme. I certainly hope it will be. I would like to take this opportunity to strike a blow for the digital tool Municipal figures, which can be found on the Ministry of Education's website. Here you can get an overview of how the individual municipalities perform in the primary school area, and it is also shown how many pupils are in the classes in the individual schools compared to the national average. This allows citizens to gain insight into their local primary school based on a variety of parameters. I am fully aware that many parents care about class sizes, and therefore I am also following developments in the number of pupils in primary school classes, and I will of course also follow developments in this quality parameter in primary school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107165506	Thank you, Minister. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107165513	I am a little surprised by the Minister's remark that it is not a good idea to manage upper secondary school pupils. After all, today we have a statutory ceiling on how many students there must be in the classes. Should I understand that, in general, it is a bad idea that in our legislation we have a ceiling on how many pupils are allowed to attend classes? I'm a little puzzled about the expression.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107165541	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107165543	Today, 28 pupils and 30 work in special cases as such an overall framework within which municipalities can give priority. There is quite a distance from the overall framework down to the average number of pupils in school classes. This allows municipalities to prioritise. Putting that figure down to 24 would reduce the ability of the municipalities to prioritise and also their responsibilities, you might say, to the citizens. Now, as I have said, we have to go to local elections, and there, as parents, we can have a direct dialogue with local politicians about what we think tax dollars should go to. And if you think small classes are important, you can travel it right there.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107165627	Sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107165630	I mean, I understand that the problem is not that we are national leaders, how we should have a class ceiling, but only the size of the class ceiling. If you look at a study that School and Parents have carried out, about what parents consider to be the biggest problems in our primary school, you can see that it has come into second place that there are too many pupils in the classes that answer 48%. When you look at what the teachers think about this, you can see that over a period of time the Danish Teacher's Association has been running a major campaign, "STOP filled classes" I think it's called. So, if it's the case that the minister thinks it's those who are close to the school that we have to listen to in this context, and when the parents and teachers have something like the same message, have we not listened to those who are closest to the school if we follow their recommendations?
ParlaMint-DK_20171107165733	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107165733-2	I certainly believe that we should listen to those who are close to school. And I certainly think we should listen to the parents when they say this is important. Because even if you can't see a direct connection between, for example, The reduction in the class ratio from 28 to 24 and the professional yield does not mean that it does not have a value. However, I believe that this is a debate to be held at municipal level, because it is the municipalities that run the primary school, and that is where the economic priorities lie, and hence also the responsibility for how to organise themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107165807	Sir. Jacob Mark for a brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107165809	Thank you. I simply did not really understand the Minister's reply to Mr. Jakob Silverhøj on the question of the value of a class ceiling. Does the Minister think it is right and proper that there is a class ceiling in the primary school law, because yes, the class ceiling acts as an overall framework? It is 28, too, but there has been a time, and there was also one in high schools where there was no class ceiling, and whether the overall framework is 24 or 28 is a political issue. So I would really like to hear: does the Minister think as a liberal that there should be a class ceiling in the Danish primary school law?
ParlaMint-DK_20171107165847	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107165849	I and the government have no plans to change the ceiling, which is such an absolute ceiling and which gives quite a lot of room for the municipalities to act. It is far from the 28 and 30 to what is the national average, namely 22, which gives the municipalities some room to assess how they want to adapt. If it is a municipality where there is quiet in the classrooms, there is no problem with what is skilled, authoritative teachers, and there are parents who accept that they should send their children to school and that the children should be ready to receive education, etc., then it may be that you see no problem in having a little larger classes. It is a local assessment of how you want to adapt, and I believe that the legislation as it stands allows for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107165943	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107165947	I would actually just like to ask, now that the Minister is presenting the government's position, and that is fair enough: does the Minister not think that there is a greater chance that there will be more peace in the class, that there will be more time for individual pupils when there are fewer children per year? teacher? Doesn't the minister believe in that clutch?
ParlaMint-DK_20171107170010	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107170012	There may well be a link between the number of pupils and the quality experienced. There may be. There are also a lot of other parameters that matter: how safe the teacher is on his feet in the classroom, whether the parents have managed to send their children to school ready to receive education, rooms, etc. There are many different parameters involved, but it is of course the municipalities that place the economy, and therefore they must also have a responsibility and an opportunity to define the framework.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107170049	Then we thank the Minister. And then we will open the debate between the rapporteurs, and that is Mrs Annette Lind, the Social Democrat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107170101	Thank you for that, President. With this motion for a resolution, the Enhedslisten wishes to reduce the ceiling for the number of pupils so that the maximum number of pupils can be reached. 24 students in the class. It has to happen over a 4-year period, and you will do so because you will not forcibly divide any classes, and then all new 0 classes must start out with a maximum of 24 students. I think that is a very good proposal. I think it is sympathetic. It is the case that the primary school must make all children, regardless of their social background and upbringing, as skilled as possible and enable them to live out their potential. It is at its core to ensure the foundations of our welfare societies, because life's opportunities are not reserved for the few. It contributes to this by creating a framework for the development of pupils and providing pupils with the basic skills needed to become involved in the education system and society. Unfortunately, however, there is a "men" in relation to the Enhedslisten's proposal. Firstly, it is settled and secondly, according to the proposal, 832 additional teachers are to be recruited for four years each year. This means that more than 3,300 more teachers must be employed and, in my opinion, it must of course be trained teachers, and in a time of lack of teachers I actually think it is quite impossible to hire so many new teachers. In addition, there is an extra bill of just over 1.7 billion. kr. I fully agree with Enhedslisten that we must give priority to primary school, we must ensure politically that the best possible and most economic framework is involved in the development of the school. It is about ensuring a reasonable financial framework for the municipalities, which is exactly the opposite of what is happening right now with the low growth that we have and the municipal cuts. It can be felt in schools and, in concrete terms, it will be a great help for the development of the primary school in the years to come if the government will come up with other ideas and not cut back on welfare. The development of the school of the future is, of course, about much more than economics, and I think that we need to start an even closer dialogue between politicians and the school world on how to make the new framework for primary school work better so that all pupils are better off in primary school. After all, we have a common ambition to make a good school better and the students even more skilled, and one of the essentials is to ensure a more varied education that can make school day educational and happy and good for more children and strengthen the well-being and ensure that the resources of the professional staff are devoted and used in the best possible way. I would rather give this priority instead of discussing whether there should be a class ceiling, because only a quarter of all school pupils would benefit from this proposal, because it is the case that three quarters right now have a class size below 24 pupils. Against this background, the Social Democrats cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107170409	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jakob Silver Mound. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107170413	Thank you for the initial positive comments. I fully recognise that there may be more challenges in this regard, both in terms of providing the required number of teachers and in terms of funding. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur's party will be prepared to make longer-term planning, otherwise the problem can be put off all the time. If you say that you cannot reduce the class ratio because there are too few teachers, you can say that there is no reason why too many more people go through teacher training, because there is no need. So that way you could have fixed your point of view. Will the rapporteur's party be prepared to make a longer-term plan so that we are sure that there are the necessary numbers of teachers to enable us to achieve a reduction in the class quotient?
ParlaMint-DK_20171107170510	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107170512	Thank you. Now, unlike the Enhedslisten, social democracy is part of the conciliation circle, and it is the case that this is settled, so of course we are in favour of conciliation. And it's clear that we don't break it in any way compared to this. But I'd like to take part in prioritising primary school. I would like to talk to Enhedslisten about how we make primary school better and how we can prioritise primary school in the future. Because that is precisely what this is about, that is to say, primary school must be a priority. Whether this is the first priority, I am not sure if it was the Social Democratic Party that stood at 1.7 billion. kr. in the hand.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107170547	Sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107170551	Thank you for your commitment that we can look at such a plan together. I would then like to hear the rapporteur's assessment of whether it would not be the case that the 1.7 billion. kr. I'm gonna make it back in. There is an important Swedish study which shows that there are long-term effects of smaller classes, which means that more people receive youth education and more people enter jobs. Is it not the rapporteur's view that if you do not just think budget year for budget year but think a little longer, they can be 1.7 billion? kr. be a really good investment?
ParlaMint-DK_20171107170630	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107170632	I think it would be really, really nice to have 1.7 billion. kr. in the hand, with which we could prioritize primary school. There is no doubt that I think it is the right way to take economic priorities too, but it is the case that this proposal benefits only a quarter of all school pupils. For it is precisely the case that three-quarters of all school pupils in Denmark are in a class with less than 24 pupils. I'd rather be a part of making some moves where all schoolchildren in primary school are taken care of. It may well be possible to discuss how some compositions should be, but I would really like to give priority to the open school, the movement, many of the new initiatives we have with the varied teaching. That's where I think we're gonna have to start. And I stood with 1.7 billion. kr. in my hand, I know it was primary school I wanted to spend it on.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107170728	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then we move on to the Danish People's Party. It's sir. Alex Ahrendtsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107170737	Thank you, President. Nor can the Danish People's Party support the proposal. The Danish People's Party is part of the primary school settlement, which is why this kind of thing has to be discussed in the conciliation circle. In addition, we cannot support the funding proposal. We're not in favour of a millionaire tax. We are not in favour of using the room for manoeuvre on this either. In addition, we think that a class ceiling of 28 students is fine because it gives municipalities room for trade. The municipal councils and the city councils can then create their own class ceiling if they want, within the 28 pupils. So all in all, we do not see ourselves in this proposal in any way. It is the case that the schools would then have to expand. The motion for a resolution itself mentions that it could be resolved with regard to the barely half billion that would be needed to get more teachers. Additional funds would then have to be found to expand the schools with more classrooms. This is quite a major interference in municipal self-government, which we do not believe in. So it's gonna be a friendly, but definitely no thanks.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107170901	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it is Mrs Anni Matthiesen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107170909	Thank you, President, and thank you to the Enhedslisten for raising the debate here today in connection with motion for a resolution B 16 on the introduction of a class ceiling that is lower than what we have today. I can really understand the intentions behind the things that are in the resolution, but I would also like to make it quite clear that we cannot support the resolution. We can't, among other things. As has also been said by previous rapporteurs, because of the large amount of money to be spent on it here. It is estimated at about 1.7 billion. kr. In addition to that, I can also stress that it is also very important for the Left to have local freedom. We are in favour of local self-government and, in fact, we think that it is also important to safeguard it and also to give local freedom to go in to look at how to deal with the various primary schools. All in all, I would say that there are a lot of places where I might also rather spend that money if I had it. On the whole, there are many places, I think, where significantly more children could benefit from them, whether or not we say that we should perhaps make an extra effort to make some of the elements of good primary school reform work even better. In short, I must sadly say that the Left will vote against this motion for a resolution, and at the same time I must also salute the Liberal Alliance and say that it will be the same as they will be doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107171100	There is a question from Mr. Jakob Silver Mound. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107171105	It's for the freedom thing. I therefore agree that the municipalities must have considerable freedom, but in principle the position of the Left is that it is wrong to have a class ceiling in our primary school law, or is this the case here with the concrete proposal to lower it? For the present ceiling is, in fact, a reduction in the freedom of the municipalities, is that a problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20171107171133	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107171135	No, I don't think that's a problem. I mean, I'm really fine with the ceiling we currently have on the 28 pupils who, in exceptional cases, can be increased to 30 pupils in the classes. When I say that we must be careful not to go in and define in detail, it is actually because I think it is important that we also have the freedom to think in team formations and so on. at the local schools. And that is why I think it is really fine, as it is at present, with the 28 pupils, which is also settled.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107171217	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107171219	I agree, of course, that the average, i.e. the average class quotient, cannot be used in itself for anything other than to record that when it keeps rising, there is a movement behind it. But what seems to me to be the major problem is that behind the average number there are some very large classes. Since it is the case that parents indicate as the biggest problem at all that there is too much unrest in the classes and, as the second largest problem, that there are too many pupils in the classes, and when teachers say that it is very, very difficult to get everyday life to work in the very large classes, does the rapporteur not agree that we could actually have a better school and a better education framework if we lowered the ceiling so that there was a maximum lower than the 28 pupils in the law today?
ParlaMint-DK_20171107171310	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107171312	I can say to Enhedslisten's rapporteur that if a guarantee could be given that you would have total peace of mind in the classes because you came down to 24 pupils, that would be a good thing, but unfortunately I do not think that is the reality. I think it is easy to find classes with 28 pupils where there is quiet, and I would also like to acknowledge that there may be classes where there is unrest. I also know that one of the most important things for parents is that we are trying to find some tools to create more tranquillity. But I just don't think that putting the ceiling down to 24 students solves that problem. I actually believe that there are many other areas to be addressed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107171355	Thank you to the rapporteur. Since I do not see any radical rapporteur, it is Mr. Jacob Mark, SF, we're moving on with. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107171414	It is also more natural that it is a SF that stands for the Left, but maybe it is just me who feels that way. This motion for a resolution is about introducing a class ceiling of 24 pupils. When I joined SFU and SF back in 2007 or 2008 I think it was in 2008 I remember that we all walked around with a badge, where there was Max 24 students in the classes and that Villy Sleepdal said at the national meeting: One thing is certain; there must be a maximum. Twenty-four students in the classes. So that is something that has been discussed for some time. This is how I have found out that it is with many things here at Christiansborg, namely that you discuss it for a very long time, and then suddenly one day or another, and then something happens. But it's probably not gonna be today, it's gonna happen with this proposal. However, this is a very important proposal, and that is also why I would like to commend the Enhedslisten for putting it forward. There has been a quite marked increase since 2009, so one in four primary school students now attend classes where there are more than 24 pupils. When there has been an increase and when there will continue to be an increase, it is because savings are being made in our school system, and then it is cheaper to stuff more pupils into the classes. In addition, there has also been centralisation in a great many cities, and when you centralize and make larger and larger schools, you are class-optimising, and then the classes also get bigger. And I'm afraid this development won't turn unless we force them to. That's why I still think it's a good idea with the max. Twenty-four students in the classes. So do the parents, and so do the students. After all, they report that the fact that there are such large classes means that there is much more unrest, that the students are miserable and that there is less time for the individual student. And looking at the reasons why there are more and more parents who choose to go to private schools is in fact one of them precisely that there are lower class ratios there. SF is part of the primary school reconciliation circle, and this proposal falls under part of the primary school law and is part of the settlement. That is why, as in many other contexts, we cannot vote in favour of the proposal. We think, in fact, that the funding from a wealth tax is excellent. We ourselves have also tried to make a more realistic and pragmatic proposal for funding, namely to regulate the long school days and to make them slightly shorter: half an hour shorter each day, but still in the spirit of the reform of the primary school, so that more time will continue to be available for other activities, but in other words to make the day of school somewhat shorter, and then to phase in a class ceiling of 24 pupils with one grade step at a time, that is to say, over 10 years. Then the two things go almost o p up. For half an hour shorter school days a class ceiling of 24 students could be obtained. That could then be done flexibly. If there is a school that does not think that a class ceiling is the best idea, but would like to have 25 pupils in the class because it would be easier in relation to the organisation, one might say that there should be the flexibility in that, instead of a class ceiling, there could be a system of two adults. So you can break the class ceiling if you can explain that there are two adults all the time. When I say this, it's because I think that Enhedslisten and SF share many suggestions on how we can take from the rich and give to the poor or to our school community. But I also think it is important to say that this with a maximum ceiling of 24 pupils can actually be done within a parliamentary framework that is here today. I simply believe that we can spend the money better than we do today. And what can be done at any rate, as we have proposed and had a lot of consultation, is to say that the class ceiling of 28 pupils today must be respected by the municipalities. They don't have to do all sorts of fiddle-dick-dick-dick-dick-dick-dick-dick-dick-dick-dick-dick-dick-dick-dick-dick-dick-dick-dick-dick-dick-dick-dick-dick-dick-dick-dick-dick-dick-dick-dick-dick-dick-dick-dick-dick-dick-dick-dick-dick-dick-dick-dick-dick-dick-dick-dick-dick-dick-dick-dick-dick-dick-dick-dick-dick-dick. They must respect the class ceiling of 28 pupils and the amount of exemptions that can be granted must be very limited, and the Minister must follow up on this. I still don't think we're going to do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107171835	Thank you. Fikmatik is actually a very good word. Yeah, I think so too). Finally, Mr President, I can give the floor to the distinguished member of the Radical Left. Andreas Steenberg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107171848	That was a nice presentation, sir. President. Thank you. And it is also a speech on behalf of the alternative. We find it sympathetic to wish the school and its students well. The proposal here proposes to lower the ceiling on the number of pupils in a class from 28 to 24. The Enhedslisten points out that in recent years there has been an increase from nearly 92,000 pupils to about 140,000 pupils in a class of 28 students. The proposers have calculated what it will cost to implement the proposal that lies here. Over 3 000 additional teachers over 4 years of age are to be paid for 1.7 billion. kr., that is almost 2 billion. kr. If we had so much money at school, and we wish we had, we would spend it on something else. We would use them to get more mixed schools that reflect the local community and matter to the people who live there. We would work to make the open school flourish in order to have more varied school days, where the teaching could be based on the practical reality outside the school. It could be local companies, the theatre of the city, museums, artists, associations and everything else in the local community. It is a priority and therefore we cannot support the proposal as it stands here.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107172018	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then we move on to the Conservative People's Party. Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107172029	Thank you very much. I think we all agree in this Chamber that we must ensure that we have very good primary schools. We must have high ambitions for our primary school. With a rigid and completely fixed ceiling on the number of pupils in classes of 24, 2,500 more seats will have to be forcibly created and 2,800 full-time positions will have to be created. At the same time, research cannot show that the class quotient has a unique effect on pupils' performance. The class quotient is a costly way of improving schools, and a rigid ceiling of 24 will affect and restrict and challenge the planning and management of primary schools by the municipalities. That is why the Conservative People's Party cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107172135	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we have reached the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, and that is Mr Beazley. Jakob Sølvhøj, Enhedslisten, who is on the way with rapid steps to the Parliament's platform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107172151	Thank you for your comments. The other day, one could read on the front page of Berlingske that one in five primary schools has been closed since the municipal reform. The Folkeskole has undergone a very strong process of centralisation, and this is just one aspect of the very extensive rationalization that has taken place in the field of saving the cost of primary school. Overall, this has meant that the class ratios have increased every year since 2009, and if you look at the number of children in classes with 25 pupils or more, you will see that the figure has grown from one in six pupils in 2009 to one in four in the last year of school. It has already been mentioned here from the platform that it is somewhere between 135,000 and 140,000 pupils who are in such large classes. It has gone the wrong way, and once it has gone the wrong way, it is not really from some rigid point of view that classes should now be of a certain size, but then it is from a finding from the research that the quality of teaching goes beyond the children's learning when there are too many in a class. It means more unrest, it affects the whole educational environment, and then by its very nature it means that there will be less time for the individual learner and therefore less time to meet the individual learner's educational needs. For a number of pupils, we have to assume that this means less well-being, and the research suggests that it not only has short-term negative consequences for learners' learning, but also has a negative effect in the long term. One might ask oneself whether this is a problem and I would say: yes, that is what we have to say. If things were generally going so well in our primary school that everything was running on track, it could be said that we could live with the class ceiling being not as appropriate, but we have a primary school that more and more parents are choosing from. The reasons for this are undoubtedly many, but it might suggest that the many pupils in the class can be a major factor in this, since, as I have mentioned in several of my questions, it is so that in a study of almost 3,000 parents it can be found that half of the parents believe that the biggest problem is the unrest in the class, while just barely half believe that the second largest problem is for many pupils in the class. I think we should take this seriously. I would also like to say that I have the impression that there is, in reality, a common recognition across the political parties that there are too many young people leaving primary school without having sufficient skills to take up youth education or, in the long term, higher education. We are among the parties which did not enter into the negotiations on the preparatory initial training, but have subsequently joined us and recognise that something is actually being done here by the parties of the Folketing to lift the group that has not got through the primary school well enough. However, it would have been preferable for much fewer pupils to be the target group for the preparatory initial training because they were better equipped when leaving primary school. So, in order to raise the quality of primary school, we do not think that it is only useful to speak up the school, as we often hear it, that we need concrete initiatives, and that is what we are proposing to lower the limit, to lower the class ceiling, from 28 to 24. We are aware that this will require a great deal of flexibility. We have proposed a four-year transitional period, but that is not a magic number. I fully agree that, as the Socialist rapporteur mentioned, there is a problem with the fact that no specific mention was made of this • 76 municipalities by a recent request from the Danish Teachers' Association that they have recruitment problems. It is clear that it must be dealt with in such a context. It has been mentioned that there may be problems in the classification of classes. After all, we have tried to take this into account in our proposal, and I would say that when the Conservative rapporteur thinks that 2,500 new classes should be created, then I think that it is going completely into thin air. It is precisely our aim that there should be a transitional period with some transitional possibilities, so that pupils in new classes can only be admitted up to the 24th and so that, during a transitional period, new pupils will not be admitted if a student leaves the class, so that during the transition period the 24 pupils will be reached. Was it the case that there was a broad indication here that, as it is a sensible project, it is not decisive for Enhedslisten whether we say that it should be over 5 years, over 6 years or over 7 years. Well, you could sort of start with "I think it was" sir. Jacob Mark, who mentioned it, said that we start at an end where it is all the new classes that are only 24. We have no desire to create chaos with this proposal and to split classes, so children and parents will be sad, because there is simply no reason to do so. But if we do this flexibly, it will be possible to resolve it. Compared to the 1.7 billion. kr. I'd say yes, that's a lot of money. I welcome the fact that several people say that they are prepared to spend 1.7 billion. kr. somewhere else in the primary school, and we will certainly be responsive to that in the Enhedslisten. But the research says that if there are fewer pupils in the classes, it gives the time and space for better education. I have already mentioned from the floor that there is a very interesting Swedish study which says that this expenditure is actually going through time. However, I am grateful for the positive comments that have been made, but I am sorry that this proposal cannot be achieved by a majority, because I think it would be useful for the primary school to carry it out.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107172819	It gave rise to a single question from Mrs Annette Lind, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107172823	Thank you. I think this question is much more complex than just being a question of lowering the ceiling to 24. It is the case that we have gone through a municipal reform in the municipalities, and in order for the municipalities to get the economy going, they have raised the class ratios because they have brought together classes and schools etc. That also means that there are a lot of people who have 24 or even more. If there are 25, then they have to be divided into two classes, and I would just like to ask the rapporteur: can the classes be too small in the view of the Enhedslisten?
ParlaMint-DK_20171107172906	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107172907	Yeah, I guess they can. Well, you can just make a fictional reflection: Would it be good with a class of three, with four, with five, with six, with seven students? No, I don't think that would be very good, even if you live with it on some of the small islands. So, of course, there has to be a certain size to ensure that there is a good framework for fellowship formation, that you can spar with each other etc. So yes, I think it's pretty good that there can be too little classes. It is true that if you make a ceiling of 24, you have to split up when you hit no. 25. But that is what we have to do today when we hit number one. However, as you know, not if it is in the middle of a school year. But when you start with the school year, you have to split up if there are 29. So yes, it can of course be seen as a disadvantage, just as it can be seen as a disadvantage to have to share by 29. However, it is a question of trying to make a cut that we think is reasonable in relation to the tasks to be performed in the class. And there I do not think that we with 24 students are approaching anything that could ever be too small a class size, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107173023	Thank you. Was there another question? Well, you gotta get in there.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107173029	Well, I thought you automatically got two, but thank you, sir. President. That is because I would like to ask a question about the second issue, about the economy. Now it's the case that this proposal costs 1.7 billion. kr. On the platform, I said I'd like to spend the money differently. If it were the case that the Enhedslisten stood with 1.7 billion. kr. in the hand, it was then a lower class size ceiling that stood at the top of the wish list, or one could use the 1.7 billion. kr. Better so that they benefited all students?
ParlaMint-DK_20171107173107	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107173108	I think they are actually very well used here. In other words, as the Social Democrat rapporteur is certainly aware, it is a disaster that there are such long school days in primary school, but I believe that this problem could be solved in the simple way of shortening school days and giving the money back to teachers. It doesn't cost anything. Then the preparation period was financed in this way. So, yes, there may be things that are more important than the class ratios to make the school work, but if we have to go out and invest money, I really think this is a very good place to use them.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107173147	We've got one more question, and that's Mr. Knox. Jacob Mark, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107173151	Thank you. And thank you for a good speech. I agree that there is a need for a lower class ceiling. I would really like to ask a few questions about the economy. It is not because I want to beat up the individual source of funding, but we in the SF have actually made a little effort to say where the money should come from, so that a shorter school day should help to finance a lower class ceiling. I know that Enhedslisten is fighting for more time to prepare, as we are doing, and has a number of proposals in the field of school, and I really just want to ask: does the rapporteur have some idea or an overview of how much the Enhedslisten will spend together on the economy at primary school?
ParlaMint-DK_20171107173235	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107173237	I do not know whether we have an overall overview, but I can say, in any case, following on from my reply to Mrs Annette Lind, that I believe that the big problem, with the long school days, the teachers' preparation time and the short opening hours in the SFOs, is, in my opinion, a zero-sum game if we organise it reasonably well. However, there is the challenge that by applying § 16B of the National School Act to shorten the long school days, two teacher schemes have been established which must have been financed. There we have said in a proposal we made in the spring that we estimate that if you make this conversion of long school days to teacher preparation and SFO hours, then there should be 500 million. kr., which was to be used to ensure the continued existence of two-teacher schemes. And then there's this suggestion. With the main ingredients, I think we're getting very far. There may be other minor proposals, but these are, I think, the most important things, because there is a part of what, as I said, is self-financing if you have the political will to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107173350	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107173351	I also believe that early efforts will not work immediately in the long term, and I do not think the rapporteur believes that either. I believe that investing in children pays off after many years. But I'm a little puzzled about the fact that it was supposed to be self-financing. The Enhedslisten proposed a cap on parental pay of 30%. in the SFOs, and it costs 1.2 billion. kr., and then there's the class ceiling here, which costs 1.7 billion. kr., and then there is the proposal for more time to prepare. It is just to say that it would be nice to see whether the sources of funding have been identified, because I really believe that it will work in some of those areas, but I think we must also be a little realistic about what can be done in the near future.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107173437	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107173438	In other words, we can say that so much is spent on so much else, both in the military industry and in the tax relief industry, so there is plenty of money in this way, but we must try to organise it so that we get as much money as possible. And when I say that it is self-financing, it is, of course, the exercise of shortening the school day by a few hours for each class and, as it were, delivering the money which finances the long school days and which used to go back to the teachers' preparation hours and opening hours in the SFOs. Here we have a zero-sum game. But it is true that if you also have to reduce parental pay in school-free schemes, there will be an extra cost to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107173525	There are no more authors, so we thank the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Education Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107173540	The debate is open and I give the floor to the Minister for Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107173605	I would like to thank the Enhedslisten for the motion for a resolution. This allows us to discuss how we evaluate and follow the professional skills of Danish school students. The proposers have instructed the government to make the necessary proposals by the end of 2017 to abolish the mandatory national tests in the primary school and to stop Denmark's participation in the PISA studies. Let me start by stating that the government cannot support the proposal. With the motion for a resolution, the authors want the Danish primary schools to be able to choose for themselves how to test and evaluate the pupils and stakes in the primary school. I think it is important to look at the big picture and, in this context, PISA and national tests are a component. There are ten mandatory tests during the student's schooling and Danish participation in PISA every three years. In addition, the primary school has the freedom to choose all the other forms of evaluation used in teaching. In relation to the national tests, the proposal is very similar to the alternative B 55, which was dealt with on 9 February earlier this year. Instead of repeating myself in relation to the specific criticism, I would like to begin by recommending in the report to the Danish Parliament in 2013 that a major evaluation of the test should be carried out by 2018, and I intend to do so. I would, of course, ask the Ministry to ensure that the criticisms made by the proposers today are also included in this evaluation. It is good to have knowledge of how things stand and how we do, so we evolve. To this end, the national tests have proved to be useful. They provide an overview of essential elements of professionalism and create a bottom under the quality of our primary school. Although I believe that national tests are a useful tool in primary school, this does not mean that I do not listen to criticism. I am very sensitive to proposals for improvements and I am by no means dogmatic about national tests. Questions about validity, resolution and the age of students when they start testing are relevant things to debate. In relation to PISA, participation gives us a good opportunity both to compare the Danish school system with over 70 other countries, and at the same time it allows us to compare our own results over time and learn more about ourselves. Here too, I think it is important to include other international studies, such as: TIMMS and PIRLS. Test results should not take over the debate on school and reduce the complexity of schools. But they can be used as a starting point for dialogue. Are we satisfied with what we see and have the developments been as we wish? And are there countries that seem to have found some solutions that we can be inspired by? But international comparisons can hold up a mirror in front of us so that we can see that we are not always as excellent as we think we are. It's good and useful, not least for the students. We're not an island in the world, and we can always get smarter. I would like to emphasise that no test results tell the whole truth. No evaluation tool can accommodate all parts of the content of the primary school, which is why we must ensure that a variety of different methods are used in the Danish primary school. Finally, I would like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution. It is important that we regularly discuss different types of evaluation in primary school for the benefit of pupils and their professional development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107173937	Thank you. We've got some questioners. The first is sir. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107173941	I note that the Minister of Education often expresses the view that we should have confidence in the professional judgement of teachers. We are very much in agreement on that. A report on national tests for Aarhus University has been prepared in 2016 by a Jeppe Bundsgaard and another researcher, and one of their main conclusions is: Teachers do not find that national tests give them knowledge they would not otherwise have had or that national tests are useful as educational tools. They do not see that national tests are a good focal point for cooperation or that it has contributed to a better evaluation culture. Nor do teachers think that the professional quality of national tests is satisfactory, nor that national tests test essential professional skills. That's quite a svada. It is a summary from the researchers of the statements that have come from the many teachers they have asked. Now that teachers' professional judgment says that it is a waste of time to carry out national tests, should we not listen to it?
ParlaMint-DK_20171107174054	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107174055	I see no reason to doubt that there are many teachers who experience that there are other evaluation tools that they use in their everyday lives that make more sense in relation to the individual learner. There are also some places, I know where you work to qualify the data that you have in the national tests, to follow the students, and are happy about it. However, I think it is quite right that other evaluation tools will also be needed. Anything else would be weird. When I believe that the national tests serve their purpose, it is primarily based on the function of having here a tool that broadly measures all primary schools. It allows you to see progression, but it also allows you to light a red lamp inside the ministry if there is a school that is quite different over time compared to the student base that the school has. And so I think it is an essential tool to have.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107174205	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107174206	I would like to know whether the Minister recognises the concept of teaching to the test, in which the test itself becomes interesting. If there is a grain of truth in the assessment that comes here in the report from Aarhus University that the tests are pointless, but that the teachers still have to make sure that they are going on and that they themselves are measured by how their students perform in the test, is there not a danger that something that has no positive effect on the school's development will be filled at the expense of something that actually has value for the teaching, so that the tests, so to speak, do not just become an indifference and waste of time, but that they will harm the entire primary school's teaching because they are not pursuing the purpose of the primary school, but are very busy with some very narrow tests that have no value?
ParlaMint-DK_20171107174305	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107174306	I simply do not agree that national tests have no value. As I just mentioned, I believe that they have actually worked well as such a bottom in order to see if there are some places where the bottom goes out of the professionalism of the primary school, because then someone has to step in. And it works so with primary school that you are also referred to primary school and that you get there. Perhaps you, as parents, are not aware at all if there is a red lamp that lights up and the national tests help to ensure that something happens if we have schools that simply do not manage to meet the expected professional level. Teach to the test I know the expression very well. I think it is important that we place the national tests where they are to be placed. They must have a function, but it is not they who measure the entire professionalism of the primary school.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107174405	The next question is Mr. Jacob Mark, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107174408	After all, we have just first dealt with a new law in which we relax common goals and set schools more free, and it is very good. And then I wanted to sit down and read all the guidance material on national tests up to the examination of this resolution. One of the things that struck me when I read this guidance material, which was both for school leaders, teachers and parents there is such a nice pamphlet for each group; it also shows that it may have been difficult to understand the meaning of these national tests was that time and again there was reference to common goals, and that the meaning of the national tests is that you have to live up to common goals. And then I came to think of: Now that we are relaxing and changing common goals, we must also change the guidance material, and perhaps there is also a need to change the way we test and do the national tests. What is the Minister thinking?
ParlaMint-DK_20171107174505	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107174506	That is a very big question. I just don't think I can answer these 30 seconds I have. In relation to the common objectives, when we look at tests, tests, etc., one will see that they have reflected common goals, but in that we lift a very large part of the common goals out of the law, it will also be in the future that there will be a development where other elements will also come into play. This is not going to happen overnight, but you can imagine that there will be a greater diversity in what elements you use in tests, tests and exams.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107174545	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107174546	I think that is quite interesting, because then the Minister says precisely that because of this new law on common objectives we will also need to look at the content of the national tests. I will look forward to that work, for I believe it is needed. So I would just like the Minister to confirm that work should now be started to look at the national tests and their content in the light of the new law on common objectives.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107174611	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107174612	As I said in my speech, I would very much like to discuss the national tests. I also believe that we should evaluate them and discuss them. However, when it comes to changing the content, you just have to realize that if you want to see a development over time, you break it if you go in and change the content. So there are pros and cons to change the content of the national tests themselves, but let us get them all on the table. Nothing is too sacred to be discussed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107174638	There are no more questioners, so thank you to the Minister. The next speaker is Mrs Annette Lind, as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107174650	Thank you for that, President. Thanks also to Enhedslisten for putting this whole question of national tests and PISA studies on the agenda. This is something that the Enhedslist sometimes puts on the agenda, and we have discussed it not long ago in this Chamber. We agree with Enhedslisten that the national tests in the primary school since their introduction have met much criticism from both parents and teachers. In the Social Democratic Party, however, we believe that we are doing the students a disservice if it is the case that they do not systematically follow up their professional development to ensure that everyone learns what they have to do during their schooling. That is why we do not share the resistance to measuring students' skills either, but we recognise that there are criticisms based on more than just an automatic response. All children must become as skilled as they can in the Danish primary school, regardless of where they have grown up and what conditions they are going to school with. This is among other things. Therefore, the Social Democracy supports the basic idea of national tests and PISA studies, and because they can help to help no learner be lost or overlooked. Having said that, however, we in the Social Democratic Party would very much like to see whether we should change the content and form of the tests that exist today. We would also like to help make the tests more practical and less bureaucratic. But I would also like to say that in the conciliation circle, in which Enhedslisten is not part of, we have actually worked on the national tests and that we have actually also worked on the criticism. It is the case that prior to the tests here in 2017, the guidance material targeted at teachers, school leaders and municipalities has been revised. The guide has been revised in close dialogue with the users who have criticised it and adapted to the specific wishes and needs of the different target groups. Together, the new guides have supported the students so that they can have a good test experience, and teachers, parents, school leaders and municipalities can improve their ability to engage in a dialogue to follow up on the test results that are available. One of the things that has been clarified in the guidelines because of the criticism is that these tests must never be left alone. In the 45-minute national tests, it has also become the case that teachers do not need to feel compelled to extend the test in relation to pupils. Today there are ten national tests in an entire school cycle. I think that is actually appropriate. But what I would like to discuss is the voluntary tests. There are ten mandatory tests throughout an entire school cycle, and it is fair, but now it has become the case that voluntary tests can be done twice more. This means that you can test up to 30 times during a school programme. I think we should keep a close eye on this, and I think we should discuss this in the conciliation circle, whether this issue is in order. In relation to the PISA studies, yes, I think we should still have the PISA studies. I think it is for this reason that we are a highly developed and highly educated country, so that all OECD countries are involved and that others other than OECD countries are involved; in fact, I do not think that we, as a highly educated country, can be left out of it. We should also bear in mind that only samples of some of the 9th class students are carried out with the PISA studies. It is not the case that everyone is subject to the same test. Therefore, we maintain that both national tests and PISA studies must continue in the Danish primary school. It must be possible to compare the results across both the country and the countries, but we are also ready to look at the number, form and content. There can be no doubt about that, because it is crucial for us that the tests become more useful for both teachers and students, and that especially the youngest should not experience that they are in a test situation, which we have also heard criticism of. In those words, I would like to say that the Social Democrats cannot vote in favour of the Enhedslisten resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107175108	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107175112	When the rapporteur mentions the voluntary tests, I would assume that we should see it in the way that, although the teacher is not very enthusiastic about the test, a desire naturally arises that children do well in the test, because that is what you are being measured on. So I fear that if mandatory tests are maintained, it will be difficult to prevent voluntary tests being carried out. On the other hand, I would like to hear: will the rapporteur not be prepared to discuss making compulsory tests voluntary? I know that the rapporteur's party colleague, Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil, has said not long ago: why carry out tests in all municipalities? Why don't we just concentrate on those places where it doesn't seem to be going well enough in schools and say that after a successful test there will be a 5-year period where you don't have to test again? Could we not imagine a more flexible thinking so that we do not have to test all children on a compulsory basis?
ParlaMint-DK_20171107175231	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107175231-2	First of all, in relation to the voluntary tests, it is the case that more voluntary tests have been carried out than mandatory tests have been carried out. In fact, I think that is a problem we should look at. So I think we should talk about that in the conciliation circle. It is precisely in the conciliation circle that these matters need to be discussed. It is a pity that the Enhedslisten is not in the conciliation circle and can discuss it there, and that is also why we are standing in this Chamber discussing these things. However, if the rapporteur listened to my speech, he would hear that I would like to take part in looking at content. I would also like to help look at numbers and I would like to help discuss how we can do this in a more modern way. But it must be done in the conciliation circle, and that is where we can of course change the decisions.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107175312	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107175314	I would like to look at PISA and the importance of our being there in order to assess how international comparisons are progressing. There one of the top experts in various test systems in the education system says that, on the basis of the PISA tests, we are not able to comment at all on where Denmark is in relation to the countries with which we would like to compare ourselves. Denmark may be no. No. 5, no. 15, No. Twenty-five or less. We don't know. The assessment that lies, not only from Svend Kreiners, but also from Peter Allerup, Inge Henningsen and other researchers, is that the PISA tests have such a character that they are simply not valid. Is it not to waste the school system's time and money to carry out tests, which supposedly do not really give a clear picture of where we are compared with the school beings in comparable countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20171107175420	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107175421	I do not know whether I fully agree that there is no comparison. What the PISA studies have to do is to compare us with the rest of the world. I find it problematic that, as a highly technologically developed and educational country, we say that we will not be involved in this when all the OECD countries are involved. I think it's okay that you can compare. I'd like to help you look at the content of the tests. If it is the case that you can re-examine the tests so that they are more comparable in relation to the way you teach in Denmark, then I would like to take a look at it. In fact, however, I think it is important that we, as a country which has education as one of the highest priorities, should be included in this kind of study.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107175504	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next speaker is Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107175512	Thank you, President. Nor can this resolution be supported by the Danish People's Party. It falls into two parts: one on national tests and one on PISA. Let's take the national tests first. The Danish People's Party welcomes tests and tests. We're pretty crazy about national tests, and we are for a number of reasons. They are good for the parents, they are good for the students, they are good for the school leaders, they are even good for the teachers. They're really good for politicians so they can keep up with whether they're doing the right thing. National tests are one tool among many to evaluate and follow the learner's progression. We have just been able to see that, in addition to the national tests, there are also a large number of voluntary tests. In fact, the voluntary tests make up half of all tests carried out in primary school. That is to say, it is a tool that is appreciated in the municipalities. National tests will then give us a safer analytical tool at national level, while volunteers will be a little more randomly carried out. So we're happy with the national tests. We will not abolish them. On the contrary, we want to keep them. That is not to say that they cannot get any better. It's hard to do these tests, and it's something relatively new in Denmark. If Enhedslisten has a suggestion on how we can make them better, we're in it. That's one part. And that part is about matter that is settled, so that is something we need to talk about in the conciliation circle. The second half of the resolution is on PISA, and PISA is not in conciliation. It is the Minister who decides whether or not to participate at all times. So the day Enhedslisten gets a minister of education, he can just say that we will not be involved in that. However, I would recommend that we continue to participate in the PISA tests, and that is for the simple reason that it gives us an indication of where we stand in comparison with other countries. Let me just draw your attention to the fact that PISA was crucial for us in Denmark to realise how bad things really were. Until then we had walked around in some socialist fog and had thought that we actually had the world's best primary school. We didn't. The PISA tests have been the basis for working towards a better primary school, where knowledge, professionalism, skills were given priority rather than the slightly indoctrinating human creation that had taken place from the 1970s onwards. So PISA is an indispensable tool among many to maintain professionalism and knowledge, while at the same time comparing ourselves with other comparable countries. You have to see it over time. It is no coincidence that Finland has been at the top of the list over time. Nor is it the case that Denmark over time has been in a 12th, 15th, 18th place, slightly dependent on the subjects. It says something about where primary school is. I suspect that PISA will continue to adjust and refine the PISA tests for the benefit of the countries involved. So this time too a definite, but kind, 'no' to the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107175918	Thank you. And there's a question from Mr. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107175925	After all, it is gratifying that the rapporteur can see a Unity Minister for Education. We look forward to the dawn of the day. Do we have a better proposal in the Enhedslisten? Our proposal is not based on the principle that students should not be assessed on a professional basis. Our approach to this is that researchers say that this is not possible with the proposal in question. Professor Jeppe Bundsgaard said in a recent chronicle that it must be quite clear to all teachers that they cannot rely on the concrete results for the individual student and that there is nothing to use national tests for educational, didactic or in any other way for the teacher. This is the verdict that one of our most prominent scientists is passing on to it. Does it not prompt the rapporteur to consider: I wonder if we are on the wrong track, and I wonder if it would not be right to say that it should be left to the teacher to assess what tests are needed, on the basis of their professional skills, rather than using standardised tests which obviously cannot be used as educational tools?
ParlaMint-DK_20171107180044	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107180046	In fact, we took the criticism very seriously in the conciliation circle and asked questions about it, and we had a thorough examination of the national tests as to how they worked. That also led to them being adjusted and refined. I would just like to say that not all researchers are critical of tests. The scientists, as Mr. Jakob Silverhøj mentions that he is critical of tests and thus also allied in their assessment of national tests, and I am not saying that in order to belittle or undermine their professionalism. What we've been using their criticism for is trying to make these tests even better. And I know that there has been very close cooperation between the Ministry and these scientists, because we are not blind, not deaf. We want to refine and improve the tests, but we absolutely do not want to abolish them.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107180145	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107180150	Is the rapporteur not concerned that there will be a way to control the test systems so that the tests will have a purpose in themselves? I am very concerned about the way in which the whole PISA structure has been organized, where it has been left to a large multinational company, Pearson, to run the framework of the PISA tests, so that those who order the tests are, so to speak, completely interwoven with those who sell the tests. Can it not be a concern of the rapporteur that it is not really about how to ensure the quality of education systems, but that an industry has emerged around testing and teaching materials, which are in fact most concerned with how to make money on this and less concerned about how to ensure quality in the school system?
ParlaMint-DK_20171107180249	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107180251	The Danish People's Party doesn't mind that you can make money doing proper tests. The PISA tests in themselves do not reveal the whole truth of the school system; it is, after all, part of the school, but it is a comparable part. And that is why we want to be involved, in other words because we can follow developments over time and compare ourselves with other schools. We know, of course, that there is a fantastic exchange between countries, and PISA is indispensable in assessing each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107180327	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. And the next in line is Mrs Anni Matthiesen as rapporteur for the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107180337	Thank you, President. In fact, in the Left, we believe that the national tests and also the PISA studies contribute positively to raising the professional level in our primary schools. And they do so because they also help to identify it if there are students who have some professional challenges, and for that matter if you do not have control of the school material. They also help to focus on performance and make professionalism more comparable, and I think that is actually positive. Because I think it is important to compare both as a teacher, but also as a politician, across schools, and when it comes to the PISA tests, that you can compare across countries. I would also like to say that we in the Left believe that not all tests are perfect, and of course we also believe that there can easily be places where it can be even better. But it doesn't mean that we think it's an idea to knock out your arms and like give up and scrape it all. In fact, in the Left, we think that instead of continuing to build these tests, we should keep an eye on whether there is anything we can adjust and do better. And that is one of the things that we, among other things, are doing. It is also where we are discussing these matters when we meet in the public school circle. All in all, I would say that it is a step backwards if you suddenly start to drop both the national tests, but also the PISA tests, because that is one of the things where you can say that we also have the opportunity to keep an eye on whether we are still on the right path across national borders. So I must once again regret to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur that the Left will vote against the resolution. And once again, I have promised to greet the Liberal Alliance and say that they will do the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107180601	Thank you. There are questions from Mr. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107180608	I sometimes get the idea, when I discuss education with the rapporteur, that we agree that the school has a much broader purpose than giving our children and young technical skills, not to belittle them. The technical skill to calculate, the technical skill to read, I certainly agree with is insanely central. However, there is no danger that when the tests are carried out, the whole problem, which we know in other contexts too, is that what is relatively easy to measure has proved difficult, but should be relatively easy to fill, while all that makes the school a broad cultural institution, where preparing pupils to enter a democratic society, etc. So to say, is being pushed into the background and becoming less important because you concentrate all your energy on what can be measured? Thus it becomes more a technical skill school than it becomes the broad school, which is stated in the entire primary school law's purpose clause. Is it not a danger that lies in the culture of testing that has arisen?
ParlaMint-DK_20171107180720	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107180723	I do not share the rapporteur's concern that the tests will fill everything or fill everything too much. I would say with a glimpse in my eye that perhaps the Enhedslisten's rapporteur could also choose not to table these resolutions over and over again. I am happy to take the debate, but it could also be that we should try to discuss something else in relation to exactly what Enhedslisten's rapporteur says, namely that our primary school is indeed an institution which carries out very, very many different things. The tests are not alone, and they must never be left alone. I mean, you have to evaluate the students on a lot of different things and not just on the tests.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107180810	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107180813	So, I stand absolutely by the actions of my predecessors, so the rapporteur should not hear it differently, but this is actually the first time that I have made a proposal on behalf of the Enhedslisten, on the one hand, on the PISA test and, on the other, on the national tests. After all, the government is very keen that we should not spend too many superfluous crowns in the public sector. Does the rapporteur not think it is quite violent that we have spent over 200 million now? kr. on the national tests and that we have spent in the vicinity of 75 million. kr. on the PISA tests, since it is now the case that the concrete results of the tests are denied by researchers who say they have no value? Is it not a pity, then, that we have spent a three-digit million dollars on it and need much more in the coming years?
ParlaMint-DK_20171107180906	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107180910	I do not think it is unnecessary money to spend. As I also indicated in my rapporteur's speech, these tests are, in fact, important. So the point of saying that it is unnecessary money, I do not agree with it. Having said that, I would also like to say again that the tests should not be left alone. It is clear that you could start to figure out what else you could get for this money, but I simply think it is wrong to start dropping these tests, as the rapporteur proposes.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107180942	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. I do not see the rapporteur of the alternative in the Chamber, and that is why we are moving on to Mr Vandemeulebroucke's report. Andreas Steenberg as rapporteur on the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107181000	It is Mrs Marianne Jelved who is the rapporteur on the resolution when it comes to committee, and on behalf of her I shall read the rapporteur's speech from the Radical Left. The mandatory national tests have been decided by a majority in the Folketing at a time when the Radical Left was not included in the reconciliations on primary school. Radical Left joined the conciliation circle when we joined the government in 2011. This means that we have an influence on agreements on primary school in the future, but that we cannot demand that the mandatory national tests which came to us while we were not involved in reconciliations be abolished. Radical Left is against national tests. At a hearing in the Folketing organized by the Education Committee last autumn on the mandatory national tests, a number of researchers and practitioners from the primary school participated. On the question of whether these tests could be used as a teaching tool for teachers, the answer was clearly no. They contribute to the performance race and create problems for a great many students who cannot cope with that situation. It is neither education nor fairness. On the other hand, on the part of the Radical Left, we can well support the fact that Denmark stops participating in the PISA study, because there are no agreements between the parties here. There are more and more recognised researchers pointing out that there are problems with the PISA study in several areas, for example: a method is used that rank the countries randomly. Finally, I should like to mention that of those students who did badly one year in the PISA test and who were called functional illiterates, there is a very large proportion who have become students four years later. Let us use resources in both time and economy in a more rewarding way than is the case with both PISA studies and tests today. As I have said, we can support the fact that Denmark stops participating in the PISA study, but we cannot support removing the mandatory national tests, as it is bound by the conciliation.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107181209	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. The next speaker is Mr. Jacob Mark as rapporteur for the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107181219	Thank you for that and thank you to the Enhedslisten for making the proposal. I was in Slagelse the other day, where I visited the Danish Teacher's Association to talk to them about how things were going in that school. Then I was given the municipality's test plan, which is publicly accessible to the municipality, but they had simply done me the favor of printing it out, and usually when you get something in memorandum form, you think it comes on an A4 paper, but what was almost like a film, such a parchment roll you could just roll out, and then there was simply a list of tests, so you thought it was a lie. I looked down from 0th to 9th grade and I thought, do these kids really have to go through all this? And they have to, and it's kind of a tragic story, how we got there, but it just started, as Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen also mentioned in his rapporteur's speech when the PISA tests came and where what I call the PISA panic emerged in my daily speech. It had already been discovered in the 1990s that Denmark is not necessarily the best country to read and calculate. In fact, there were more pupils than they thought who left primary school and who did not have basic knowledge in the two subjects. Therefore, work had been started from below with the teachers to improve the literacy of the students. In fact, there was much that suggested during that period that it was on the way to change and that when you worked together the Ministry of Education and the employees, you could actually end up solving the problems that were in the primary school. But then came this PISA measurement, which actually said some of the things you knew, namely that Denmark was behind with the things you now measured in PISA. Then it panicked. So you were thinking, what can we do to change this? The easy answer, and unfortunately that was also the answer that was pursued when the previous reform of the primary school was then carried out, was to introduce more tests. We have to follow them on a regular basis. We're gonna have to test more, and then we're gonna believe the kids are gonna get better. This has meant testing children and students more than ever before. Through primary school there are ten national tests. You can then pre-test them for PISA tests twice, and with the tests, you can get up to 33 tests, and it's without PISA tests, and it's without graduation exams, and whatever else the teacher wants. I am not against trying children, because you have to evaluate and find out where they are, but some static and rigid test, which is mostly for ranking children, so that we can see if we are behind in PISA, I do not believe in making children more skilled. What did that mean? Well, that has meant that it is not only the mandatory national tests that we are discussing here today, which many of the children have to face, but also the many voluntary tests, and that is true, as Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen said that teachers also use voluntary tests. You can see this as an indication that they think they are good, but you can also see it as an expression that teachers feel pressured over how their students perform in the national tests that they need to get up to, so that they also get up to the volunteers, so that they know that the students are well on their way. Well, we're pushing them involuntarily to take the volunteer tests too. We can also look at studies that small children are miserable. When first-class students, second-class students and third-class students have to be brought up in national tests, they are simply miserable. We can see that what is called teaching to the test occurs, namely that teachers focus on what can be measured. There is a purpose in the reform of the primary school which goes far beyond the professional sphere of life, freedom of spirit, education, and it cannot be measured, so that you focus on what you can measure, namely some of the many goals that we are about to soften up to now. Finally, this culture of achievement is emerging, which I do not think is healthy, but on which there can be many political views. That is why I actually think that we should loosen up these mandatory national tests as well. We cannot vote in favour of the part concerning national tests because it is part of the primary school settlement, but I am glad that a united public school conciliation group has softened up on these common goals. There are many different parties from both sides who have fought for this, because target management has taken precedence, and a natural consequence of this will also be that you bleed up on the national tests and change their content, because you no longer have to meet the many targets that have been set. So we will pursue that in the conciliation circle. Then we think you should take a PISA break. I got to thinking of some movie, but I can't think of what it was, with a quote that says: it's not you, but everything you've brought with you that's wrong. I simply do not remember where it came from, but one can say a little the same about the PISA test. It is not necessarily the test itself, but everything it has carried with it that is wrong. I do not necessarily think PISA is the best tool to measure, but that is actually most of all what PISA has done about this educational system that we have in Denmark, where we are testing more and more, from which I believe a break is needed, and that is why I am going to table an amendment to the resolution that isolates the part that is about PISA and that we should withdraw from that cooperation. We would like to vote in favour of this, but we cannot vote in favour of the resolution as a whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107181728	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. The next is Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107181741	Thank you. The national tests are a tool that gives teachers a picture of where the individual learner lies professionally, and teachers are given better opportunities to organise the teaching individually. The tests give the students insight into how the students are doing at national level, and the schools are given the opportunity to compare with each other. The same applies to PISA. It doesn't matter that we can compare our schools with other countries' schools. The national tests and PISA are tools, and there are, of course, things that the tests cannot be used for. The tests are a supplement to the evaluation of whether the child learns anything. We in the Conservative People's Party will not do without the measuring tools we have to assess whether the children learn something seen across the country and across other countries. We cannot therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107181843	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. And then I give the floor to the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107181853	Thank you. Thank you for your comments. The introduction of standardised tests has, in my view, not been of benefit to the development of the primary school. I believe that many people have come to this realization on the basis of the massive criticism that is directed at the tests of both researchers and teachers. The critics say that both the national tests and the PISA tests are so flawed that they measure inaccurately and otherwise measure the wrong thing, so none of the tests give us a credible knowledge of the quality of our school system. On the national tests, critics say that they do not give us a useful knowledge of the individual pupils and that they are not useful as an educational tool for teachers. Others say it is even sharper and state that the national tests are directly harmful to the primary school because they promote a teaching to the test culture that helps to distort the teaching, so that simplistic testable goals risk neglecting the broad purpose of the teaching, as described in the primary school law's purpose clause. In my view and in the view of Enhedslisten, it is a very regrettable development that oceans of time and very many millions are being spent on tests that either cannot be used for anything or have a direct negative impact on the primary school. So far, the national tests and the PISA tests have cost the State 285 million. kr. New millions are sacrificed each year, and there are many, many hours spent by teachers in preparing national tests. The criticism of national tests is not new. Both the teachers and the researchers were strongly warned against the introduction of the tests, among others. with reference to the experience of other countries, and when you read the study about Danish teachers and school leaders using the national tests prepared by Jeppe Bundsgaard and Morten Puck from Aarhus University, you have to say that it had been very wise to listen to the critics when they introduced the national tests. If you look at PISA, there is a similar criticism, and I think it should be thoughtful when several of our highly acclaimed researchers think that the tests have been designed, so it is almost random how Denmark is placed in PISA's ranking system, not because, in my view, the ranking system is particularly interesting at all, but because it has been used as a ram to change primary school. Professor emeritus Svend Kreiner has described it this way: What PISA tells has little to do with reality, and the changes that have been attempted in the Danish school have taken place on an unqualified basis, which has led to distrust of the entire primary school. I find it interesting that there is an experience with some rapporteurs that it was a wakeup call for the Danish primary school. I cannot say that I have had neither the time nor the linguistic skill to get around everywhere, but if you look at PISA and see what is read elsewhere, you can see that they said the same thing in Norway, they said the same thing in Germany, they said the same thing in Austria, and they have probably said the same thing in many other places. The PISA tests have been used as a ram to change school systems. I believe that the way the entire international PISA organisation is built up in close cooperation with commercial interests is highly questionable. In my view, it is almost politically inflamed when the large multinational company Pearson, which earns billions of kroner from the sale of teaching materials and test systems, plays a key role in shaping the framework of the PISA tests. I would like to emphasise that we in the Enhedslisten are of course not opposed to teachers acquiring knowledge about learners' learning. However, we believe it should be left to the teachers' professional judgements which tests and tests are appropriate to apply exactly to their pupils. It would make sense for us to support the work of the teachers through more training opportunities and that we support the teachers by developing different kinds of inspirational materials that the individual teacher can use. But the standardized tests should be stopped. I welcome the remarks of colleagues, of course, always from all rapporteurs, but especially from the SF rapporteur and from the Radical Left rapporteur. I would also like to welcome the rapporteur of the Alternative and say that they support the proposal. On the other hand, I regret the fact that a majority of Parliament's parties reject the motion for a resolution. I take comfort in the fact that part of the defence barrier that I experience is built around the decisions of the past in relation to the binding goals of primary school is being broken down. I think that a very good step has been taken by dropping many of the mandatory targets. I believe that the same thinking as that used in the dialogue on them is something that should be applied in relation to the tests. Then I hope, despite the fact that there is no majority today, that there will be an openness for us to continue the discussion on whether the mandatory tests really make sense or whether we should leave it up to the teachers' professional judgement to use the tests and tests that are the right ones to assess exactly the pupils they are responsible for teaching.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107182456	There are no brief comments, which is why I would like to thank the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Education Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171107182512	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 8 November 2017 at 6 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
