ParlaMint-DK_20170117130007	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Martin Henriksen (DF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 52 (Proposal for a decision to exclude imams and other religious preachers from jurors or judges). Jacob Mark (SF) and Trine Torp (SF): Motion for a resolution No. B 53 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the re-establishment of the objective of increased social mobility in development contracts). Pernille Schnoor (ALT) and Peder Hvelplund (EL): Request no. F 31 (Does the Government agree that Denmark should be included in the binding agreement with the UN on a more sustainable medicine industry, cf. "Promoting Innovation and Access to Health Technologies' report of 14 September 2016 from the UN Secretariat-General's High Panel on Access to Medicine, where Denmark can support the sustainable pharmaceutical industry with more openness in the pharmaceutical industry, more reasonable pharmaceutical prices and better priority distribution of research funds?). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20170117130059	I give the floor to the Prime Minister for an introductory statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117130106	Thank you for that, and happy New Year, I can say, since this is the first question hour of the new year... the first of hopefully many good questions hours. Denmark has entered the new year in good shape. Production is rising, real wages are rising, there is a rise in the housing market and unemployment is the lowest it has been for 40 years when two years of overheating are counted in the 00s. There is progress across the country, we have strong companies and a finely masked welfare society and good and free education. Things are going really well. Everything is not perfect, but changing governments and parliaments have prepared Denmark for the future, and we see the result of that now, and we must rejoice at that. The big question is, of course, whether it means that we can sit back and enjoy the fruits of the responsibility of the past. And the answer is: Yes, we can, but not very long, if Denmark is to continue to be in good shape and we must ensure that the good times continue for a long time. When I say it, it's because I too ca. A month ago, some of Denmark's best managers and entrepreneurs, experts and trade unionists gathered for an inspirational meeting at Marienborg about what Denmark and our labour market are facing in the coming years. I think that everyone who was there went from the meeting with an experience that the future will offer even very big changes with technological quantum leaps, which we can hardly imagine, new ways of learning, working and living • lots of new opportunities for a country like Denmark. However, we also went from the meeting with a heightened awareness that we have to hand out rather than seize those opportunities. We're not getting anything. That is why we must use the good times wisely. We have to, for example. have everyone who can at all in the working community. We need their contribution to Denmark's growth, and those outside the labour market need to become part of the labour market so that they can support themselves and their children. It is important and right now we have better chances than before for that to happen. That is why the government wants to lower both the tax on labour so that it can pay better to work, and make proposals that bring greater growth and more jobs, and that is why we want to help give more people better skills and equip them for the future. Last year, we made two tripartite agreements, which include: It was about more internships and better vocational training • qualifications for those who want a job. This year, one of the main tasks will be to work for another tripartite agreement, which this time will provide more and better adult and further training for those in work. These are courses and training courses which can help companies to have employees who have the right qualifications throughout their lives. We will begin to do so, and hopefully the collective bargaining process will reach a positive result. And I think that can be done, because both the trade union movement and the employers are showing this in these years. I would like to say this: a vision and due diligence which is important and which we may not have matched at all times in this Chamber. They do not go and ask themselves what was the best Danish invention. They ask themselves: What is the next invention? What should the next invention be, and how do we prepare Denmark for the future? I hope that in the year we have just begun, 2017, we can come together to have great visions for our little Denmark and the courage to make responsible decisions. I think we owe that to those who elected us; we owe it to Denmark. And I can't wait for my party to get started. And once again, Happy New Year.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117130506	Thank you, Prime Minister. We now move on to questions from the party leaders. The questioner and Prime Minister both have up to 2 minutes' speaking time. Two follow-up questions follow, each with one minute's speaking time for the questioner and the Prime Minister. It is first Mrs Mette Frederiksen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117130534	Thank you. There was a lot of what the Prime Minister said I would like to discuss, because in our view it is still not an expression of responsibility to ask worn-out Danish employees who have done theirs to work more. However, we may have to wait until the time when the Prime Minister will tell the worn-out Danes whether they are going to work a few more years or what is actually being planned at Marienborg. But it was actually something quite different that I wanted to turn with the Prime Minister today. Indeed, I think it is obvious for many reasons to start with the foreign policy that the Prime Minister did not find much reason to talk about. It must be said to have been an exceptionally dramatic year, 2016 which we have just completed. After all, 2017 is a year that can bring new challenges for both Denmark and the world community at all. In a few days' time, we will have a new President in the United States who, unfortunately, on several occasions has questioned, among others. the relationship between the United States and Europe. We have one, it has to be said, increasingly aggressive Putin and an increasingly aggressive Russia. We have Turkey, which is unfortunately moving away from Europe and, incidentally, away from the fundamental principles of the rule of law. We have the Middle East, which is still on fire. There's a major migrant crisis. Unfortunately, we also have a situation with the European Union that is potentially weakened, as many are listening to Theresa May's speech right now. In particular, the situation in Russia requires special attention in the foreign policy debate that I believe we should give priority to in the Folketing, and I would therefore like to address the discussion that I think is absolutely necessary to get started, namely the issue of the new gas pipeline Nord Stream 2. First of all, I would like to ask what the government's overall position is on an issue which can have quite a major impact on energy policy, but also on security policy not only for Denmark, but also for the whole of Northern Europe and thus potentially the whole of Europe and relations with Russia.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117130759	The Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117130802	Thank you. I fully share the main impression that we are living at a time when there are a number of concerns on the foreign policy agenda. It should not shake the picture I drew in my opening remarks of what is Denmark's situation. That's right, but there are a lot of things that challenge. In relation to Russia, there is also reason to be concerned. This is among other things. some of what the Secretary of Defense was out to address in a big interview a few days ago, and which I hope we can pick up on together when we are going to discuss later this year what demands it makes for Danish defence. Because there's an aggression we haven't seen before. It is, of course, relevant to drag that reading of Russia into the whole issue of the EU's energy supply. In the light of what Mrs Mette Frederiksen is also aware of, I have tried to engage my European colleagues on several occasions in a discussion about Nord Stream 2, which is a commercial project as a starting point, and which must therefore also be dealt with in accordance with the laws of the country, that is to say our environmental legislation, and what else is legislation on alignment and the marine environment and other matters. But there is certainly a need for a more geopolitical approach to this issue from a European perspective. I have to say openly that to date the Commission has not succeeded in dealing with this project with this approach. I will continue to press for that to be done. In this context, I have also reached out to my Swedish colleague because Sweden and Denmark are in a bit of the same situation. It is my expectation, on top of the consultations I have had, that, in a joint Danish-Swedish initiative, we will soon return directly and in writing to the European Commission to raise this debate precisely in the perspective that Mrs Mette Frederiksen is asking for.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117131032	Here you go, Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117131035	[Sound emission]... at the Prime Minister's introduction to this subject. First of all, everyone in this Chamber knows that energy policy is always about something other than energy, and one would say that, in the current situation of Russia's aggressive behaviour, not only with regard to the Crimean Peninsula and Ukraine and the Middle East, but also, unfortunately, with regard to the Baltic countries where, in my view, we have a special Danish responsibility, it would of course be problematic to consider a question of Russian gas and the transfer of Russian gas alone as energy policy. The Swedish Government has, of course, expressed itself fairly clearly in the matter and has already taken a position on the Russians' application to be able to go ashore on Gotland, as it were, and I myself have just returned from Oslo, where the Nordic Social Democrats also had occasion to discuss the issue. That is why, to be brief, I think it is necessary not only for this to be an energy minister, because, as the Prime Minister actually said, this will be a major policy sooner or later, and the question is whether Denmark will not have to enter into this discussion with open eyes.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117131153	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117131156	Yes, I fully agree with that. I am not the one who can ask questions, otherwise I would like to have a record of the clarity with which the Swedes have taken a position on this matter. I can only say that I have long since reached out to the Swedish Prime Minister in order to ensure at our level that the Commission raises this matter. What has emerged from the contact at the moment is that there is a prospect that the Swedish and Danish energy ministers will jointly address the Commission.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117131231	Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117131232	As I understand it, the Swedish Government has already expressed its position, among others. the question of whether you should be allowed to build land on Gotland as part of Nord Stream 2. This is a political expression, which may also be relevant in relation to Denmark and our clearly interesting location in relation to the project. I do not dispute the fact that this is also a matter for our energy minister and therefore for European energy ministers, because this is also a risk of questioning what I believe we have an interest in: the emergence of a European Energy Union, which is both a question of supply, but also, of course, of ensuring independence from those with whom we should not agree when it comes to geopolitical matters. So, of course, this is a matter for the energy ministers. When I choose to raise the issue here today, it is because the then government, when we had the discussion back many years ago, when the Prime Minister also had a responsibility, chose to take the angle that it was a purely commercial matter. In my view, with Russia's current behaviour and with the threat picture we see, we will also have to raise this discussion to a political level.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117131354	Then it's the PM in the end. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117131356	I am very much in agreement with that. The right place to do this, and that is also in the way Mrs Mette Frederiksen himself argues about the European Energy Union and Europe's position against Russia, and the right framework for this geopolitical assessment of Gazprom's project is Europe. That is also why I have been working for a long time to get Europe to engage in this matter. For what is Denmark's challenge, and which is also Sweden's challenge, is that everything else is equal, unless you have another platform to stand on, it will be the case that an application and we have not yet had an application to assess according to applicable law, i.e. applicable environmental law and international maritime law and other things. Then you can give a reasonably secure forecast that it might end up with some conditionalities. So if it's going to end somewhere else, it has to be because you're making a different assessment. I think it has to be said that if we are to put this matter in a context of what this means for Europe's energy supply, for the security image and for Russia's potential to do what they did in Ukraine, where they stopped energy supply, then we need a European framework for that debate. I am committed to this and, as I said, I have also reached out to the Swedish Prime Minister, because my reading is that Denmark and Sweden are in the same situation and have a common interest in raising this matter in the perspective that Mrs Mette Frederiksen is actually calling for.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117131540	Thank you. The next party leader is sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117131546	Thank you. And thank the Prime Minister for his introductory remarks. After all, it is good that there are positive tactics in Danish society in relation to growth and employment etc., which the Prime Minister mentioned. What I would like to talk to the Prime Minister about today is somewhat different, but it is nevertheless something that can significantly affect Denmark and the Danish economy. For while we have this Question Time, Prime Minister Theresa May talks not only to the British people but also to all of us about how the British Government is planning to exit from the European Union. It follows in the wake of the referendum this summer, and it is reported that the way the British Government is going to do this is by means of a so-called tough approach, that is to say a tough Brexit, understood in the way that you want to leave the European Union completely and that there are no intermediate ways. One can understand that, of course, because what kind of European Union, that is, 27 Member States, Theresa May and the other Britons have met since the referendum this summer? Yes, it is an EU that has told the British that if they want a free trade agreement with the European Union, for example. access to the internal market, then they must accept the free movement of labour in the future from the other EU countries, as it is today, to Britain. If you follow the British debate and have followed it up to the referendum last summer, it is obvious that the British cannot come home with such an agreement, because if there is one thing the British Government has to deliver to the people, then it is border control, immigration control. That is why the European Union has already created a situation in which it is impossible to believe that an agreement can be reached. What is my question to the Prime Minister is whether it does not really put Denmark in a really, really bad position. Because would it not be preferable for Denmark to have an agreement with the British, where they remain strongly involved in trade issues, even if that means that the British will have full control of borders and immigration as a perfectly natural thing?
ParlaMint-DK_20170117131808	Thank you. And the PM, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117131811	Thank you. But it is true that a speech is now being held, which is also covered by both Danish television channels. That is why we stand here and speak for ourselves and cannot follow that speech. After all, it is difficult to comment on a speech that is being settled right now. I would like to start by arresting the premise that there are some demands that a free trade agreement can only be obtained under certain conditions relating to freedom of movement. In other words, what has been said by the European Union is that if you want to remain in the internal market, the internal market will be the single market per year. It is a market based on freedom of movement not only for goods but also for services and capital and people, and that is why it must be balanced. That's the signal that's been sent. And then it has been the case that the EU-27 has been hesitant in relation to what the British wish is. I simply do not want to accept the view that there should be something in the European Union-27 which determines what British wishes are now formulated. It is sovereign for Britain itself to decide what they want to do in the future with the European Union. I have said all the way, and I have done so directly to the British Prime Minister, that the Danish attitude will be cooperative. I mean, we haven't decided that Britain should leave the EU... we're sorry. That is why we also have an ambition, if that is what Britain wants, to keep Britain as close to the EU-27 as possible. But that is because the country itself is doing what it wants and is triggering this Article 50, which has not happened at all yet. The negotiations have not started at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117132003	Here you go, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117132005	It was not many days after the British referendum last summer before the EU-27 announced that if you leave the EU, but still want to stay, for example. in the internal market, it is based on the fact that the free movement of EU citizens into Britain is also accepted, among other things. The Eastern Europeans too, which, if followed by the British debate, are not in doubt, are a major part of the reason why the British voted out of the European Union. This is because a great many Eastern Europeans have come to Britain, and a great many British people have the feeling that they have taken their jobs, have forced wages down. So you knew in advance when you entered this position on the part of the EU-27 this summer that when you make this condition politically, the British Government cannot take a negotiating position that is about holding onto the internal market, because you cannot come home with such a negotiated solution as the EU-27 proposes. That is why the British Government is left with one choice, and it is a tough Brexit. There's just my point that it's not in Denmark's interest. Denmark has an interest in an arrangement that keeps the British as close as possible to the rest of us commercially as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117132127	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117132128	Well, I understood the reasoning already the first time. I just do not agree that the natural response given by the remaining Member States of the European Union, namely that they are open to negotiations, but that it must start in the right place, in that way. It is the country that wants to resign that has to claim what they really want. What kind of relationship do they want with the European Union? And it has to be said quite quietly that not many people had thought about that before that vote. Well, I guess you could say that we were better prepared for a Brexit at home than you were in Britain. We had both a green speech and a yellow one and were ready the next day with an interdisciplinary task force. In Britain there was a big question mark. And what has been the message from the European Union has been to say that now Britain has to decide when to trigger Article 50, that is to say to set this process in motion. What are their claims, what do they want? In order to maintain a sensible negotiating position, the message of the EU-27 has been that and I do not see how it can be otherwise that things should be balanced. Well, you can't just have pick and choose like that. The single market is a construction based on a variety of freedoms and, if you want to maintain a link with the internal market, it must be done in a balanced way. That does not mean that we have said that we do not want to discuss with Britain at all. We did so already with the agreement that was made with Cameron, where a brake was put on how much Eastern European immigration could take place over a period of time. So you have not written off the opportunity to be accommodating, but you have had a starting position. To stand here and say that it is like deciding what it is for a choice to make in Britain, I simply do not agree with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117132313	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117132314	It is the European Union that has decided that there is a political link between, on the one hand, access to the internal market and, on the other hand, free movement of, among other things. East Europeans to one's labour market. It is also politically possible to decide that there is not. So when the EU-27 few days after the referendum this summer goes out and makes it crystal clear that an agreement on access to the internal market will only be reached if, at the same time, freedom of movement for, among others, is accepted. East Europeans into the labour market make it impossible for the British Government to come home with a negotiated solution acceptable to the British people and respecting the choice made by the British this summer. If you have followed the British debate up to the referendum last summer, you know that a line has now been drawn from the European Union of 27. That is what I think is important to be challenged here, because I would like a situation where Denmark's line was that of course we would like to make a close and binding trade policy agreement with the British, also to be formulated directly in relation to the internal market. And yes, Denmark's position is, of course, that the British can gain sovereignty over their borders and over immigration issues, because it has been important to the British. It is not essential for Denmark to make good trade policy with the British that East Europeans can flow into Britain.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117132428	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117132430	I just have to say quietly that we do not agree on this matter, and we have not been here from the start. I think that the day after this vote I said that we are very sorry that Britain wants to vote out; we are sorry that it is their decision. Our position is that, of course, we want to maintain the closest possible relationship with Britain at all. It is in Danish interest, I think it is also in Britain's interest, but I also said then, and I still believe that from here it is about defending Danish interests. It is not a Danish interest to start by selling out some negotiating positions. What the European Union has said, which I think is very, very sensible, is that it is Britain that wants to leave the European Union. Now Britain must make up its minds when it wants to start formal negotiations and where it wants them to end. What do you want? That's what we're waiting for. Maybe we'll get an answer today, so I don't know. I haven't heard the Prime Minister's speech, because I'm standing here. I'll have to get to know it later. In any case, it is not today that Article 50 is being triggered. It's gonna be triged at some point, and then the negotiations start. What is our common EU-27 starting point, which I do not think can be any different, is that an agreement should be balanced. With rights comes obligations, and that must be the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117132547	Thank you. That concludes the question. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117132556	Thank you. I would also like to thank the Prime Minister for his introductory remarks. I have to admit that I had such a desire for this issue to be about the Public Act and how it is managed when you sit as a minister and head of administration, because I understand that the Prime Minister has brought the Liberal Alliance into another series of parties that have a position on the Public Act when they are outside government, and another when they are sitting on taboos. It is an exciting democratic conversation that we could have based on it. What I, on the other hand, would like to talk to the Prime Minister about is something else. I don't know if the PM reads the Dagbladet Information. I do not expect this to be the first thing he does when he gets up in the morning, but yesterday a very large report was mentioned, the so-called Oxfam report, which shows that it is now the case that the eight richest men in the world own more than the poorest half of the world's population. So these individuals own more than 3.6 billion people on this globe, and it's a crazy accumulation of money in a few hands. I should not hide the fact that we think it is an unfair and stupid system that creates this kind of inequality worldwide, and it is probably no wonder that more and more people are turning against globalisation, because not everyone is the great winners of it; it is, on the other hand, primarily a small elite, while a lot of people are being denied. This is also true at home, where the incomes of top managers and the richest one percent have run off, while the broad middle class are at about the same level, whereas the poorest 10%. actually gets poorer. I guess the Prime Minister's policy doesn't help with that development. When we then have that report, we should not look back too many days until we could read that the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior actually believes that inequality is not worth dealing with at all. My humble and simple question is: Is it also the view of the Prime Minister and the overall government that the inequality also in the light of the Oxfam report is not worth dealing with at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20170117132809	Thank you. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117132811	Thank you. Now I may be tempted to start by answering what was not the question. Because it's such a handsome trick you can use just to start by saying such a little piggy about some public law and then create some kind of picture, but we shouldn't talk about that at all. For then I must not respond to it at all, and then there should be a picture left that this government does not want to have any publicity, and that we should darken everything when it is actually the case that what appears from the government base is that we want to speed up an evaluation of the public law and that we are open to a discussion about it, and when, moreover, it is the case that many of the things that are brought forward, that is, most recently in Berlingske about the Herning Police School and a cover-up of a wealth of documents, are based on a misrepresentation of what is a fact, that is, what is darkened and what is not darkened. So it just has to be said. In relation to the question, I am not sure that this is a very precise record of what the Minister for Economic Affairs has said. I can say that I care about the issue of equality and inequality. In fact, I also think that in my New Year's speech, if I remember correctly, I think that one of the distinguished features of Denmark is that there is not too much difference between high and low, in other words from every perspective, and that of course also applies to the economic perspective. So it's definitely not something you should care about. It cannot then be translated to the effect that any change in the Gini coefficient on the second decimal place is an accident. In other words, the most equal society there is is a refugee camp day one after the total natural disaster, where everyone sits and has nothing and where the Gini coefficient is just equal. Then quotas are distributed, and then there are some who start baking bread from their flour and negotiating. Then there will be growth, and then there will be something derived inequality. So there's got to be that nuance in it. However, I believe that Denmark is known as and should be known as a country where the economic differences are • what word should be used manageable. Well, I think that's a special Danish value.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117133035	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117133038	I think this is a very important report, especially because when we look at the global inequality referred to in the report, which is really violent, I also believe that the Prime Minister will admit that there is a huge accumulation of resources in very few hands, we can see that there is an economic system behind which, it must be said, there is a lack of regulation. This certainly allows tax evasion of an abnormal magnitude, puts wage pressure on small local producers, threatens to relocate businesses, and large companies have so much economic power that they are almost larger than some states. That is part of the problem, and Denmark is certainly not an island in this respect either. It does not matter whether Denmark participates in a race against the bottom of the corporation tax as both the previous and the present government has contributed to the taxing of capital income or how we impose inheritance tax, and the Prime Minister's own economic policy also helps to increase economic inequality. I do not think the Prime Minister would argue otherwise, and so my simple question will be: if we agree that this is bad, can the Prime Minister say when we will get there, that we will actually have to deal with inequality, that we will have to work against it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170117133213	Thank you! Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117133215	But then we are working consciously to pull the nuances out of what I said before. Because I do not believe that we have an inequality problem in Denmark. It is not the same as not having any problems, and it is not the same as the absence of pockets of poverty; we must do something to combat it, and it is not at all the same as the fact that there is not much of a lack of equality of opportunity, in other words how we make it possible for people to break the negative social heritage and reach out to the opportunities and things of the welfare society. But if you look at it in an economic perspective and calculated on the Gini coefficient, I do not have a picture that Denmark is a country that is challenged, i.e. in a Danish perspective. The global discussion is another discussion. We are one of the most equal societies in the world, at least if you like to put in the extra dimension of the fact that we are also an open market economy. So we have shown on a full scale that you can reconcile different sizes. I attribute it to the fact that there are not too many differences, a value, but, as I also said explicitly before, it cannot be translated into saying that any action that increases something on the Gini coefficient on a decimal is judged out. Because there are other dimensions to this issue too, and there are also aspects to global issues. As far as this concentration of capital is concerned, there is also a technological leap. I am here with such a telephone, which did not exist ten years ago, and which is one of the reasons why there are some companies that can be said to have become rich over a decade, because they have been skilled and innovative and have also, moreover, provided technology that the world is enjoying...
ParlaMint-DK_20170117133404	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117133406	I do not think that technology jumps can be explained as something that can only take place if, at the same time, such an abnormal accumulation of capital is allowed in just a few hands. I don't think that's what the Prime Minister was trying to say either. In fact, I did not try to pull the nuances out of what I tried to add to some, because I kind of agree that Denmark is a very equal country compared to others. So on the global scale we are, but that does not change two basic facts: 1) Inequality is also increasing and even in comparison with other countries very much increasing. We are no longer in the first place; we are overtaken by our neighbouring Nordic countries and by countries such as Austria. So it goes in that direction in Denmark. 2) At the same time, you can talk about Gini all you want, and you can talk about equal opportunities in education, but that does not change the fact that the opportunities are different for the children affected, for example. The government's cash aid ceiling. So inequality has very, very major consequences for some individuals as well. What I asked the Prime Minister was: if inequality doesn't matter and I'm not saying you should go against any change in the Gini coefficient, I didn't ask about that when the inequality becomes so severe that the Prime Minister will actually do something about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170117133530	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117133531	Well, we try to do something about it every day. I mean, we're gonna make it, for example. have introduced a cash aid ceiling in a situation where there is an increase in employment in Denmark; where we can see that we have a historically high number of foreign employees in Denmark, also in job functions that do not require large formal training; and where, at the same time, I think that is the last figure I have seen 30,000 labour market-ready cash help recipients, it is an attempt to promote a society in more social balance with itself and see if we are not able, with a combination of different measures, to move people from passive support into the labour market so that they can earn their own money so that we can save some tax and so that we can free up some resources that can be used to invest, for example. In terms of skills raising for people who have entered the labour market without having a lot of training in their backpack etc. After all, it is all an attempt to promote the development of society, in which people have more equal opportunities and have access to those opportunities. It creates growth and it creates prosperity. And so this is a question of looking only at equality/inequality in such a gini coefficient perspective too little and too narrow. It is a parameter among others, and Denmark is not in a situation where we have an inequality problem as such.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117133654	Thank you. The question is closed. Then it's mr. Uffe Elbæk, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117133704	Happy New Year. I guess that's what you have to say at this point. And then I would like to say that it has been quite interesting that during this first Question Time we have actually discussed foreign policy at different levels. We've been talking about everything about the gas line from the Soviet Union. I almost said what happened there? Russia; we have talked about the EU; and we have talked about the inequality report that has come from Oxfam. My questions will also concern the Oxfam report, because there are two things that have made a huge impression on me this week. One was the report referred to, which says, as I said, that eight people own more than the poorest 3.6 billion. The second thing that made a huge impression on me was to attend Trump's first press conference. So my first two questions are going to be about Oxfam and Trump respectively. Now my good colleague from Enhedslisten has talked about it from a Danish perspective, but I really want to look at this inequality report from a global perspective. In other words, at the moment the annual meeting is taking place in Davos, where we have our Finance Minister, and the annual report from the World Economic Forum also says that some of the biggest risk factors at all today are the enormous inequality between rich and poor on the one hand and the climate agenda on the other. Therefore, I would like to ask the Prime Minister first: how will Denmark and thus the government make our voice sound in the debate that is now going on? In Davos, what do we do with the enormous global inequality? For a system in which eight people own more than 3.6 billion, a completely unstable system is. It is not a sustainable system. At some point, this 3.6 billion will no longer stand for it, and of course that is why the annual conference in Davos says that we have to do something about global inequality. Now we have our finance minister down there, and I'm curious what the government's approach to it is. What should we do from Denmark? What kind of voice do we want to be in this debate?
ParlaMint-DK_20170117133935	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117133937	Perhaps I should just say for the sake of completeness that the Davos meeting is not a negotiating meeting, and the Minister for Finance has not been sent off with any mandate, just as I believe that the chairman of the LO, who is also attending the Davos meeting, has also not been sent down there with any particular mandate. I think that this whole debate has many different approaches, and one dimension, among other things, is acting. on how these fortunes are managed. Well, it's not to say it's trouble-free, but a picture is drawn that here there are eight men who own half the world or as much as the bottom half income-wise, and then they sit there on top of a pile of money and do nothing. If you look into it, you can see that there are several of those people that I myself have met in the world community who are deeply, deeply engaged in many of the debates, which I know stand Mr. Uffe Elbæk close, on the fight against malaria and infant mortality, and how to promote education in the poorest parts of the world, whether it is Bill Gates or some of the others. Bill Gates participated among others. in the Paris Summit on Climate Change and was a direct catalyst for a number of countries which were perhaps reluctant to invest research funds in climate technology to agree to an initiative that was his and President Obamas. I mean, it's just gonna take that nuance, 'cause there's gonna be a picture of eight men with a cigar just sitting on top of a cash box. I find that some of those people are acting, just as the nation states did in the old days, when the accumulation of wealth took place around royal houses and empires, namely, socially responsible also globally. It's just a nuance that needs to be in this debate. I also believe that this is a prerequisite not only for the patience of the poorest half, but also for the patience of all of us: well, how do the people who have these wealth concentrations react? If they aspire, you might say, in the interest of the planet, it is a smaller problem than if they act against the interests of the planet. That's the nuance. Then, by the way, the President is now standing up, so I have to finish by making sure to make a fair level playing field globally. This whole talk about avoiding tax ports and things like this is part of this, too, and there is Denmark a country that is to be found on the international scene all the places where it's about promoting transparency and fair and equal competition.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117134219	Thank you. Here you go, sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117134222	We fully agree that this is not about the specific eight people, but about the system that makes this possible, and I am glad that the Prime Minister also recognises that it is a global risk factor when there is so much inequality between rich and poor. Fortunately, there are also a large number of companies that take the lead and say so. Last time I read I think it was in Finans.dk that the director of Grundfos, along with 37 highly profiled companies, went out and said: We have to create a new economic model, a more green and fairer economic model. I just hope that the government will have greater ambitions in this area, and we would certainly like to support the alternative. The second, as I said, was the press conference with Trump a few days ago, and I have to say that I was surprised at how unavoidably the new American President-in-Office of the Council spoke at this press conference, and the further the press meeting was held, the more he emerged as completely egocentric. He also marks himself in some areas which I think are completely immature. That was then what it was, but afterwards he came out with criticism of Merkel, criticism of the EU, questioning NATO. Does it give any reflection on the part of the Danish Government that we have usually always said that the United States is our closest ally, and now we have an American president who is not? We must say: should we have a more independent European profile in foreign policy cooperation?
ParlaMint-DK_20170117134410	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117134414	Yes to the end, in the sense that we should do so both before and during the US presidential elections. This is also one of the places where Donald Trump, like Obama, points out that Europe should lift something more if, for example, we are going to do something more. Takes the whole question of how much of the defence costs Europe itself promises and how much we really depend on the United States. I fully agree that the style is very different and the rhetoric is different and I shall not go into that at all, but the message is the same from both the 44th and 45th presidents, namely a desire for Europe to bear a greater share of its security itself. It is also a dimension that we will discuss when discussing defence reconciliation in Denmark later this season. But I would also like to say that, of course, I am also observing what is happening, including in press meetings, and that is at least obvious, and it is to be seen that style and shape are different from what we have seen before. At the end of the day, things have to be judged on content. The president isn't in custody yet, so he's not president yet, it's Friday. There are some congressional hearings, which at least draw a nuance on this picture of what else you can get from Twitter, and I think we owe it to ourselves and each other to see how these things land. In my optics, the United States remains, as it were, Europe's closest ally, and thus Denmark's closest ally.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117134558	Thank you. Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117134600	It is remarkable to me, at least, that we have a future new American president who talks about his allies in the way he does, and the only one he speaks positively about and does over and over again is Putin. It certainly seems to me to be a fairly new way of acting as American president. The last question comes from the members of the Alternative and not surprisingly it will be a green question. The question is: Why does the government not invest more seriously in green conversion in Denmark, so that we become the first country in the world to achieve 100%. Green switch? So why don't we turn Denmark into a front-runner nation in this area and actually set some very concrete goals for us to be the first country to be completely green?
ParlaMint-DK_20170117134652	Thank you. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117134654	Denmark is a front-runner nation, we must remain a front-runner nation, and so are we, and that is one of them. That is why we have set the target of 50 per cent in the government base. VE in 2030, which is an ambitious objective, and moreover, has reaffirmed the ambition to be independent of CO2 Is there a country that will reach it in 2048? I don't know. I can just say that this is a solid and ambitious ambition, and we are investing in it too. Most recently, I have been pleased that we have eliminated the anti-competitive PSO and have been able to do so in a way that has continued to maintain the green ambition and conversion.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117134755	Thank you. And then it's sir. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117134802	I'd like to start with the PM's New Year's speech. In fact, I believe that, far along the way, I share the Prime Minister's analysis of what it takes if we want to take our fate into our own hands and have the ambition to leave a better society for our children and grandchildren and reach out to the opportunities that also lie in all the changes that are taking place. At least it is also the case that nothing comes of nothing, so if you do nothing, you cannot afford to have greater ambitions for the future either. One of the things I noticed was that after the Prime Minister's analysis that something had to do, he said: first, we have to invest in new competences. I thought that was a strong message. And there I am a little concerned about whether at some point it could get through in the policy pursued by the government. For what has characterized the first financial laws of the government is that right now you are sitting at all the educational institutions in the country, in other words, upper secondary and higher education, and must try to translate the savings which are not investments in new competences, but which are reductions in what you have to do well with if you want to invest in children and young people's education in Denmark. And I think it rhymes very badly. After all, what went wrong with the so-called training ceiling, in other words, where it is thought that the time has come for a ceiling on education in Denmark. This applies, of course, to these two courses, which the government and a number of conciliation parties were very opposed to. Then it happened that the Prime Minister had gathered his Council of Disruptions, and then the Prime Minister stood before Marienborg and said: "That thought that you get a given education, and then you get by with it for the rest of your life, is probably a thing of the past. It was exactly the same day that a ban was adopted on people who have taken a bachelor's degree being allowed to take another unless they have not dealt with the subject at all for five years. Wasn't it time to make all the fine words, the slogans to invest in competences, a reality in the policy pursued by the government? If that time is approaching, then the Radical Left is at your disposal to work together on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117135010	Thank you. And that was a very fine observance of the speaking time. Thank you so much. I think it's the first time in this question hour. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117135018	I am very pleased about that, because it is certainly time for that. That's one of them. Therefore, what I also said in my opening remarks here today is that we have an agreement with the social partners that as soon as the collective bargaining negotiations, which we have to respect as well, have been concluded, we will start tripartite negotiations, which are exactly about the perspective: how do we ensure that people who enter the labour market and enter the door with a set of qualifications can maintain and expand them throughout a very long working life? It's gonna require an investment. That is also one of the reasons why the government has expressed a desire to look at how we can provide money for a billion-size pool of competence which can be released by adjusting our SU. So that's an example of it. If there is, sir. Morten Østergaard said earlier, is a radical commitment to enter into a debate on how we make adjustments to what is probably the world's most lucrative SU and which among other things. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. But I don't know if it might be an overinterpretation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117135139	Thank you. Sir. Morten Østergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117135143	But what leaves the impression that there is no connection between what the Prime Minister says on festive occasions, either in a New Year's speech or in front of Marienborg and the policy pursued, is that education has become such a well from which the government is fishing money. Now we understand that it is loans from students to finance continuing training for people in the labour market. But can the Prime Minister not see that it is crying out to heaven that you stand up with your Committee on the Future and say that there is no point in believing that just because people have taken an education, it will last the rest of their lives while his government in the Danish Parliament has put forward a proposal for adoption which is precisely about capping, so that people who have taken a bachelor's degree cannot be allowed to take another one? Can the Prime Minister not see that it is almost nearing the tragicom that one can stand and say so, or that one can say in one's New Year speech that the most important thing is to invest in new competences, while at the same time cutting down on education and restricting the opportunities for young people to train for the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20170117135246	Thank you. Then it's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117135249	No, I don't see that. But I see very easily that with the way it is interpreted, it can very quickly appear as a distortion of proportions. If we take that training ceiling and it was also in the way the question was asked, then it is not the case that because you have taken an education, you are totally cut off from taking another if the training you have taken is not useful in the labour market. It's just to mention one thing. It's not like that. Moreover, it is the case that one can train oneself upwards. If you have taken a vocational training course and want to get an education upstairs, that can be done. If you are a trained educator and want to become a primary school teacher, you can get it through credit. Well, there's plenty of options in it. So to stare blindly at the fact that there is a very, very broad majority among others. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). Morten Østergaard would make Prime Minister if one had power, as one has watched, who has made an agreement to free an amount that can support a proper allowance agreement, is simply to draw it too far; so to say that because one has removed some things there, one cannot have the view that we have. Furthermore, we have a plan to provide billions for a plan which is that once people have entered the labour market in a career path, we must ensure that they can build and maintain and develop the skills they have in order to maintain employment through a long working life. The criticism here is out of proportion.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117135421	Thank you. Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117135425	I don't think we're done discussing that. That is why I would like to use my last question on something we might agree on more, namely Denmark's continued membership of the European Union. I have every confidence that the Prime Minister and the government are working for it, and that is by its very nature up to us. However, when I get worried and think it is worth asking the question, it is because I can hear that Denmark's largest bourgeois party, the Danish People's Party, wants a vote: When we know the British conditions, the Danes must be allowed to take a position on membership. I think it's an opportunity to embark on. I do not think it is a wise way for Denmark to create uncertainty about our membership of the European Union. I'm a little excited to hear what the Prime Minister thinks. Specifically, if the Danish People's Party makes it a precondition for continuing to support the government that there will be a vote on continued Danish membership of the EU, will the Prime Minister's total rejection of this today?
ParlaMint-DK_20170117135525	The Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117135528	That's a funny question to ask, because I haven't heard the wish made. I can say that it was also in the way that was asked that I believe that it is in Danish interest in every way to be a member of the European Union. It also enjoys a great deal of popular support. I have no plans, and I cannot imagine having any plans to put questions about continued Danish EU membership to the vote either in one place, in the other or in the third. And, by the way, I haven't heard the demand either.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117135608	Then it is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117135618	I have noticed that the Prime Minister has issued elections for a very important election, namely the school elections, where pupils in the country's primary schools are to discuss politics and tick. And I'd like to sign for the Prime Minister throwing himself into this school election. It is important that democracy and co-determination should be brought under the skin of the primary school and that the ability to express one's views should be strengthened. The most important thing, of course, is not whether they vote on one party or another, although we all have hopes, it is far more important that they listen to the debates, discuss politics and for the first time be allowed to sniff out a election where all the votes count. About 650 schools participate, and 62,000 pupils from the oldest years of the schools receive separate ballots, and although the elections are unfortunately not going to mean that we get a new Prime Minister in Denmark or a new majority in the Folketing, it is an important choice for the school pupils to face. You have 20 items on the agenda, and I would like to ask the Prime Minister exactly one of them. It's about the length of school day and the number of pupils in the classes. Too many classes have so many students that it is difficult to be seen by the teacher. 140,000 students find themselves in classes with more than 25 students, and many complain about the long school days, especially the last hour being very long and difficult to learn. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister if he will help cut the school day for all classes half an hour and at the same time spend the money saved to create a class ceiling of 24 pupils.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117135759	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117135801	Thank you. Yeah, I also think it's a really, really nice tradition that started with these school choices. I don't know what's going on this time. If you look at the last school elections, you will see that no new prime minister came out of it. It was just relative. But please don't do this. In other words, I have seen the basic view that we must now be vigilant about the school reform that has been agreed and which, moreover, also creates a considerable degree of flexibility. So if you go into this question about the length of school day, you just have to quietly see that with the new school reform there are also significant variations in how it works out there and that there is also a difference in the way you have organized it. I think that in some urban communities it has been better to plan it in such a way that you keep afternoons open in relation to interacting with association life, where you may have covered it half-way through the week and have made it a little harder, and I think you should work with it locally and find the right way to take down the school reform. So, in relation to what is quite specific about the fact that we should make a central intervention which states that everyone now has to go to school half an hour less than they do today, and then we have to invest the money in lower class ratios or in two-teacher schemes, unfortunately, my answer must be no. I know it's one of the things out there, but now we're not running for that election either.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117135929	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117135931	After all, I share the Prime Minister's commitment and commitment to the school elections. I guess we're all on the same line there. But the answer about the shorter school days and fewer pupils in the classes disappoints me. Why not convene the parties of the Folketing and discuss the necessary adjustments to the reform of the primary school? Why not focus on quality rather than quantity, shorter school days with fewer classes, more time for the individual pupil and the possibility of more classes and more hours with two adults in the teaching? This is of course to the benefit of especially those pupils who need extra attention and, at the same time, it will create a better balance between leisure and school life for pupils. SF is ready to make school day shorter, and we are willing to discuss it with the other parties. This in no way means that I would like to stress that we say goodbye to the open school, to movement, teacher-teacher collaboration or immersion, but that means that we listen to the challenges we hear from the primary school and act on them. It's the kids it's all about. So wouldn't the Prime Minister just open up a little more, be a little more listening to the children who are now struggling out there with the 20 issues, and help make primary school an even better school?
ParlaMint-DK_20170117140041	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117140042	If I do not remember much wrong, Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr was a minister in the government that ran Denmark at the time when we agreed the school reform that now applies. What I have certainly taken down from the agreement we made, also subsequently from the municipalities responsible for running the primary school, is that we do not have to change all the time. In other words, there's a need for some peace to implement this reform, and I really want to respect that. I also welcome the fact that when you look into it, there is much evidence that satisfaction with the way it works is increasing. That is at least what I think I have been able to read, and that is why I think that we will certainly be at least one way too fast out if, after the short time that has elapsed, we say that we must now have some major political negotiations on this reform on whether it should be decisive. I think there is a need for municipalities to continue to work on translating this right, all that I still think is a real perspective on mixing play and learning and physical activity. It's also one of the things that makes if you do it right, the last hour doesn't get boring, because then you've got the mood and the ability to learn all the way through. If you don't succeed, it may be that the last hour is harder to get through. We must give the municipalities the opportunity to get into place supported by the great commitment that is around it. There are, among other things: Feel it, who put money on the table to support this transformation. The government itself has the idea that we will make resources available to the schools that deliver the worst professional results or where the pupils get the worst out of school. I think that is the way we should do it, rather than starting to change the framework for primary school. I did not say that there could never be a day when we would have to discuss the structure of schools again.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117140238	Mrs. Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117140240	SF is behind the reform of primary school, we have done that I actually ended my question No. I am concerned about the long school days and listening to the pupils and parents who express concern, especially because it is the weakest pupil who falls through. With my last question, I will do something unusual. I am going to leave my last question to SF Youth. SF Youth is very preoccupied with this school election and they are problematizing, and they can see that it is an experimental scheme that has been school elections in 2015 and now in 2017 but they want the school elections to be made permanent together with the other political youth organisations. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister whether he would be interested in making the school elections a permanent arrangement rather than an experimental arrangement.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117140327	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117140329	I look forward to seeing what will be the next innovative access to asking questions here. Now we have Members and youth organisations. I would also like to point out that my own youth organisation, the Left Youth, is inclined to agree with the questioner on this point about short school days on the questions that were put to me before the school day. This is, I believe, one of the key issues they have to deal with in the election campaign, and that is very good, because it shows that politics can move over time with new generations. I think it should be taken very seriously if the political youth organisations come and say that they want to have a firm framework over this work on how to promote democracy and popular understanding in schools. I cannot see through the implication of simply saying yes to the question, but I would like to be open to that. Democracy is not a law of nature. It is there as long as we maintain it, and in this changing time we live in, and it has been a theme in many other issues today, it is a value that we take care of the Danish people's government. So anything that makes it possible for our educational institutions to be open to the fact that there is no fear of political youth organisations in high schools, that democracy can be worked out in primary schools, I am basically in favour of it. Then I don't know if there's a receipt going with it. So I'm gonna have to take that little reservation, but at least I'm positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117140452	Thank you. The question is over.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117140458	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117140540	We shall vote first on the amendments to Bill No. L 65. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-9, member of the Committee? They are adopted. We shall then vote on the amendments to Bill No. L 66. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-3, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the legislative proposals go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117140611	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117140630	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, to be elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117140648	The debate is open. Sir. Rasmus Prehn, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117140714	On the socialist side, we are very pleased today to be able to deal first with the construction law on the bypass of Haderup. There is no doubt that this is a road for which there has been a very high demand for quite a long time. It is the case that we in the Committee on Transport have also been visiting the area to see it, and we could see for ourselves the great need for a new road. The decision to investigate the background in order to build this road and the impact on the environment and other things in the form of an EIA study was something that was set in motion when there was a social democratic government. That is why we are also pleased that it has now been followed up and that money has been found to enable the construction of this bypass west of Haderup, which is a city located on the distance between Skive and Herning. It's a place where there's been a huge need for this road. I think it has been a pleasure also to see in the consultation answers that there has been a close dialogue with the municipality, citizens' associations and other stakeholders in this area, and that a good way has been tried to solve it, also in terms of ensuring proper conditions for cyclists and others. So there must be praise to the Ministry of Transport for having handled it in a fine and noble way. There is no doubt that building such a 2+1 road, where cars can overtake in turn, is a good and effective way to build a road. You get a lot of money when you build this way. A piece of the line will also be an expressway where it has been ensured, with social democratic support, that you can have a higher speed. So we get a very, very large amount of mobility for the money by doing it this way, and we actually think that is traffic policy when it is really sensible. On the socialist side, we have also noted that we are often criticised for the fact that we only want investment in rail, and we are, in fact, proud of that. We want to invest in rail. This is a priority and public transport is important. But here today there is an example of the fact that we too, on the socialist side, remember to give priority to roads where it makes good sense, and Haderup Omfartsvej is a road where it makes very good sense to ensure greater mobility and to ensure that some of the tribulation is avoided. It is also ensured that there will not be quite the same heavy traffic through a city as Haderup. It is extremely positive that an initiative like this has been taken, and we Social Democrats support it. Because we are the party that ensures both investment in public transport and in the road, so we find a sensible balance in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117141007	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117141011	I can only agree, as my rapporteur has said, with many of the praises that the Socialist rapporteur makes about the Haderup bypass. However, can the rapporteur tell me what the background is for the conciliation circle to upgrade the bypass from the original proposal of the Road Directorate, which operated with two realistic proposals, known as A1 and A2, and then for a motorway-like motorway where you can then drive at 100 km/h.? This seems to be a huge upgrade on the basis of a recommendation from the Road Directorate, which said that an expressway with two tracks and an expressway with 2+1 tracks were sufficient.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117141115	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117141116	There is no doubt that there has been a great deal of interest from active citizens in the local area, but also from business, to ensure this increased mobility. There we have been sensitive to the arguments that have been put forward locally to ensure an optimal solution where there really is a lot of mobility for the money. It's not a motorway, but it's true that on one part of the line it's an expressway, which allows you to get up to a higher speed and get this more mobility. It has been a wish from among others. the local business community, and there has then been agreement within the conciliation circle to prioritize it. Yeah, you could have done with something smaller, but we figured out that we could probably figure out how to solve this. And in relation to what has been of demand for better mobility, it was a reasonable way of doing so. So from the Socialist side, we support this and believe that it is really, really good for the mobility that needs to be in these areas. We must also bear in mind that this is a place where so many other transport investments have not been used up, so it is positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117141233	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117141235	The local business community to which reference is made is insatiable around the country. If they had been asked whether they wanted a motorway in the area, they would probably have said: yes, of course, it is about increasing mobility, as the Socialist rapporteur also says. Increasing mobility by upgrading the road to a motorway-like expressway is about 1⁄2 to 1 minute or something like that. This seems to be a huge upgrade, and it is also more expensive to build a road with the equipment needed to make it a motorway-like road. I think that, in relation to the positions of the Road Directorate, which clearly states that mobility will thus be greatly improved, it seems to be a strange story that has been going on in the conciliation circle.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117141330	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117141331	I'm really happy with Mr. Knox. Henning Hyllested's speech, for as Mr. Henning Hyllested from Enhedslisten says, one could also have chosen to build a motorway. We didn't choose to do that. We chose to find a sensible compromise, in other words, right in the middle, and I think it is a good thing to be in close dialogue with the business community and to ensure that they achieve their desire for mobility, but it must also be done in a way where we do not use unnecessary resources and do not compromise nature and other considerations. It would be just as violent with a regular highway. I think that Mr. Henning Hyllested's speech very well illustrates that we in the conciliation circle have found the good compromise.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117141416	Thank you. There are no more comments or questions. Then the next rapporteur is Mr. Kim Christiansen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117141428	Now the Social Democrat rapporteur has explained this road expansion very carefully, but I would like to say to Rasmus Prehn that we are at least two parties here in the Danish Parliament who think both the way and the path, so it is not either-or if we are to ensure the good mobility throughout Denmark, and we must. At a time when we are not exactly swimming in funds available to us, in the Ministry of Transport there is quite a need for road expansion, upgrading roads around the country it is gratifying that we can, however, stand here by a majority in a first reading of a construction law which concerns this piece of road on route 34, and I see this as a little as a first step towards improving mobility between Herning, Skive and Hanstholm, which is heavily burdened. I myself have had the opportunity to drive with a transport company up in Skive, and I have to say that when two trucks are to meet on this road, which is it now, it is certainly not safe from road safety. Then for Mr. Henning Hyllested I would say that this is not just about minutes, it is also about road safety. Of course, it is for the sake of mobility and accessibility that we are upgrading our roads, but it is also for the sake of road safety, and these 7.5 km bypasses around Haderup will be involved; we will have heavy traffic around Haderup City, and this will ensure children and other weak road users much better conditions in Haderup City itself. So it is quite common sense that we can do this here, and that is of course something we in the Danish People's Party strongly support.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117141613	Thank you for that, thank you to the rapporteur. I do not see the rapporteur of the Left, and then we have to move on to Mr Van der Klaauw's report. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117141632	Thank you. This is then a road project which Enhedslisten could actually support, if not exactly the conciliation circle, as my questions to Mr. Rasmus Prehn, in the last round, one could say had gone crazy and had turned the bypass into a motorway-like expressway with the possibility of driving 100 km/h. We find this completely superfluous in the Enhedslisten and, as I also said in my questions, it is an upgrade of the Vejdirektoratet's proposal from the EIA report, which proposes either a 2+1 motorway with the possibility to drive 90 km/h. It is also somewhat on the basis of a road safety issue that we think it is a bit crazy to turn the motorway into a motorway-like motorway section and, of course, with the possibility of driving 100 km/h. You could say that it provides safer equipment, yes, but you then raise the speed, and that is not very sensible, since we are talking about only a five-mile stretch. It is still the case that north and south of this road, north and south of Haderup, there are still 80 km/h. speed limitation, and therefore this would trigger some kind of kangaroo run, where on a relatively short stretch of this 5-6 km you will suddenly have to drive 100 km/h. In our opinion, this is not very good for road safety with this kind of up and downgrade of speed. It is not educationally very clever to have such stretches in the middle of it all, nor is it very clever for the environment that you can suddenly accelerate, and then have to cut down again when it is as short a stretch as we are talking about here. In relation to the mobility that is being talked about, I would say that the travel time gain is 1⁄2-1 minutes on this on top of the 2 minutes that the original proposals A1 and A2 would give. I cannot help hearing this, and when the reason for making this road a motorway-like road is that it is possible to win perhaps one minute, to think about the discussions about the Train Fund DK and the travel time gains that can be won there, because I think I have heard a lot of mockery that it is only 1 minute here and 1 minute there, and it is 10 minutes on Vejle Fjord, and up and come down here, but when it comes to roads, it is obviously okay with 1⁄2-1 minute. It's kind of fun to think about. I understand that one of the reasons might also have been • I have not been present in the conciliation • that the internal rate of interest is then pushed up to an acceptable level, because it was not actually after the original A2 proposal by 1+2, but it has been pushed up by increasing the speed to 100 km/h. Yeah, well, that's how you can make a lot of gripes and then make it fit with what you want. It seems, as one can hear from what I am saying, to be overkill, and given that route 34 is not, after all, the most strained section of the road in the area, it also seems to be quite an overkill. Route 18 and route 12 west and east of Haderup are, after all, somewhat more heavily burdened, especially route 18. But the good thing about the bypass is of course, and that is also why Enhedslisten supports the proposal here, that there is the relief of Haderup as it does. The relief applies not least to heavy traffic passing through, which is quite violent for me too, is the surprisingly violent and it leads to 60%. less traffic through Haderup, which, of course, in turn leads to increased road safety and better urban environment. Since it was also a great desire of the residents, there is every reason to build this bypass. I would say that the Enhedslisten can support the construction of this bypass around Haderup due to the relief of Haderup, but we cannot support the proposed extension to a motorway-like motorway. We would be able to support A1, as I said, and perhaps we could also look at emergency support for A2. The emphasis has been placed much more on comprehension in addition to relieving Haderup, so we will probably be tabling an amendment to use A1 or A2 in the further reading, and then we will have to take a position on what should happen in relation to our amendments.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117142155	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kim Christiansen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117142158	Thank you. That is really just a clarification, for Mr. Henning Hyllested keeps saying "motorway-like." If it were even to remind you of a highway, it would have to be two lanes in each direction, i.e. such a ring-way-like thing. I would have been reasonably in agreement, but we are talking about two tracks in one direction and a track in the other direction, where you cross a little. So that gives us some good opportunities. I hope the rapporteur agrees with me on this. This offers some good opportunities for traffic flow and thus also increased road safety. Well, then, sir. Henning Hyllested does not agree that, despite everything, although this 2+1 solution may not have just grown in Enhedslisten's garden, it is an improvement in road safety, both in Haderup town, but also for the traffic that is on the road, regardless of the speed being 100 km/h.? That's because the road conditions are for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117142244	Thank you, and here you go, sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117142246	Yes. I also think that the idea of 2+1 tracked roads, which offers better overtaking possibilities and also safer overtaking possibilities, is a good idea. We have been supporting this for a long time. It was also one of the proposals put forward by the Road Directorate, namely that it should be a 2+1 tracked motorway. Now you have just chosen to set up road equipment and then at the same time speed up. This is undoubtedly similar to the proposals we have heard about in the past, namely that a further series of motorway sections will be upgraded - and I therefore believe that this was the expression used at the time of motorway-like roads, and we are certainly not in favour of that. We do not see why the speed should be increased to 100 km/h when there is a proposal to maintain it at 90 km/h, and that is, of course, with the reasons I have mentioned. It gives you some kangaroo rides in the area because you drive 80 km/h. North and south of Haderup, and that is educationally not very good, nor is it good for road safety or for that matter for the environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117142352	Sir. Kim Christiansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117142354	I am pleased that we agree that, after all, this improves road safety. Now maybe this is a bit of a teasing issue too, but sir... Henning Hyllested spoke a little about Train Fund DK and minute savings compared to a new Vejlefjordbro. A new Vejlefjord Bridge for 4.3 billion. kr. Henning Hyllested didn't agree that the minute saving here is a little cheaper than at a Vejlefjord Bridge?
ParlaMint-DK_20170117142420	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117142421	Of course it is. But it was precisely with a view to the Danish People's Party and not least to the rapporteur, Kim Christiansen, that I was thinking that it was strange, however, that it seems here that it is a very good idea to win 1⁄2-1 minute and sacrifice a lot of money on it, even less money than on a new Vejlefjordbro ^ when there is a proposal to make it cheaper. Well, that's just sir. Kim Christiansen, who has advocated that the savings in one minute or two minutes should not be taken into account, or for that matter the 8-10 minutes on the Vejlefjord Bridge that the Togfonden DK involved.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117142458	Thank you, sir. Henning Hylllested. There are no more comments. Then it's Mrs. Laura Lindahl, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117142506	Thank you. On the basis of the agreement for a new Storstrømbro, Holstebro motorway etc. The Vejdirektoratet has carried out an EIA study on Haderup omfartsvej. There are three proposals for extending route 34 at Haderup. The bill empowers the Minister of Transport to implement proposal A, which is an extension of route 34 with a 7.5 km long bypass. The EIA study showed that the long bypass is clearly the most expensive model, but at the same time the study showed that the time saving by using this model is much greater than for the other models. And the socio-economic analysis showed that the expensive model is also by far the most economically viable. Against this background, the Liberal Alliance can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117142551	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Roger Matthisen, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117142609	I will start by sending out an invitation to you, because the alternative would like to be invited inside the Train Fund DK and be part of the parties behind the agreement on a green transport policy. It would be nice to be allowed to sit around the table. In relation to the upgrade, we have faced a bit of the same dilemma as the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten, Mr President. Henning Hyllested, was talking about. There is a speed upgrade of 10 km/h, which is, after all, addressed in many other legislative proposals, which cause more pollution and more pressure on the roads. But we must weigh this up against the fact that Haderup town is of course relieved, which is extremely important, and especially the fact that the locals have asked for this solution. So when we sat and had to take stock of the bill, we had to recognise that the public's desire to relieve traffic is higher than that we might have more road accidents, and at least we will have more pollution. However, the alternative supports the proposal because we stress that we relieve Haderup city and that we relieve traffic in Central Jutland.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117142735	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117142742	Today is a really happy day for Skiveegnen, Mothers and Thy, who for a number of decades have struggled to get a better road connection to the motorway network. If you hold up a Danish map and see where the motorways go in Denmark, you can see that northwest Jutland is not connected to the motorway network at all, and for many years there has been a great desire to stay, and it has also been a wish that I have been involved in promoting here in the Danish Parliament. That is why I am very pleased that today we are dealing first with the bill which has been going on for quite a long time, but which opens up the first part of getting a good road connection from Skive, Mors and Thy to the motorway network at Herning. I would like to thank all those who have taken part in this, but also those who have worked on it locally. In the Radical Left, we think that this solution with two plus one roads can be a bit of a Columbus egg for a lot of rural areas everywhere in Denmark. Because in this way we can ensure that there are some overtaking tracks so that we can avoid heavy traffic. This can increase road safety. It can be ensured that there are no roundabouts, T-crosses and other dangerous points along the roads, and it can also increase road safety and increase accessibility. We don't have very many of these two plus one roads in Denmark. We have done a single project north of Holbæk, and we believe that in the Radical Left has been a great success. It is a good way to connect some of the smaller provincial towns on the entire road network, because it is cheaper than building a large motorway and thus more realistic, and it is better suited to some of the towns that are slightly smaller than the very large ones. So now we get one more project around Haderup, and I think that will prove a great success when it has been built. I think many people will see that we should have more of that in Denmark. And with the bill passed by the then Left Government, we now have to drive 100 km/h, and then we are very close to what is a motorway, and in this way we really get a lot of money on both mobility and road safety. So we're really excited about this project in the Radical Left and also hope that over the years we can get more projects done around Denmark of this type. We support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117143014	Thank you to the rapporteur. I do not see anyone making brief comments, so we will continue with the formal rapporteur's series. Then allow me to come back because I see there was a rapporteur who has not had the opportunity to make his speech, and I will make room for that later when we are at the end of the rapporteur's line. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Karsten Hønge, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117143036	There is a need for a new road at Haderup, and a two plus one solution fits very well in this situation. We also think it is good to gain widespread experience elsewhere in the country with the special two plus one solution. We must do this in order to make traffic slip, and we must do it to the delight of the inhabitants of Haderup. The current route is also exceptionally bad with jumps between the roads in the middle of the city. Then we can always discuss what status the bypass should have, but when we take a new road, we ended up with the proposal at a higher speed. I'm not so worried about this kangaroo drive that's being mentioned. After all, we are talking about a road with a length of over 6 km. SF loves trains, buses, light rail, metro, etc., and we love cyclists, but when there are legitimate reasons, we want to invest in new road systems. This bypass is expensive, but it's a good investment with a reasonable social rate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117143148	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments either. In fact, Mr President, I can give the floor to the rapporteur of the Left. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117143206	Thank you for that, President. Indeed, in recent years we have invested a great many billions in strengthening the railways, including the construction of completely new lines, upgrading to power trains and upgrading to higher speeds on the track. This has all been good and right, and we have done so on the basis of broad political agreements. Now we must ensure that in the future there will be a great many reliable trains on time on the tracks we have built. Based on this strong focus, which has been, on investment in the railroad, it is very pleasing every time we can launch a much-needed road project, for there are many of them around the country. One example of this is Haderup omfartsvej, for which we are today discussing the Construction Act. When we invest in better roads, we do so for three important purposes. Firstly, strengthening the momentum, mobility, for the benefit of citizens and business. Secondly, to ensure the basis for development with renewed growth and job creation locally and regionally, in other words to ensure more growth throughout Denmark as well as a more coherent country. And thirdly, to strengthen road safety. The construction of the 7.5 km bypass at Haderup between Herning and Skive meets all three purposes. We strengthen mobility on the important transport corridor, also called route 34/26 between Midtjylland and northwest Jutland. This makes it easier, faster, cheaper and safer to get from Thy, Mothers, and Salling to the Herning motorway network. I have no doubt that this will have a great positive effect on the region, especially because the project includes a level-free cut west of Hagebro along the state road between Viborg and Holstebro. The current conditions are not good and the new plant will clearly save time and strengthen road safety. The same will happen when the road is taken around Haderup town with a three-track two plus one-way, which many local citizens look forward to. I note that Haderup and the local community have made some specific requests for the final design of the project, including in terms of bicycle traffic. I note with satisfaction that the Vejdirektoratet will discuss this request with Haderup School and Herning Municipality in connection with the detailed project. The left is also very pleased that the speed of the new bypass is set at 100 km/h. instead of the normal 90 km/h. for expressways. This means increased mobility and thus a clearly better socio-economic approach for the whole project than otherwise. I welcome the fact that this important construction project enjoys broad political support in the form of agreements concluded by August 2016 at the latest with regard to the residual financing of the total capital expenditure of 281 million. kr. including reserves. With this construction law we give the start-up to a long-awaited project that will help to make Denmark richer and more coherent. I am aware that this is not the end of upgrading the North-West Jutland Road Corridor, but with this bill we are taking an important step forward. The left can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117143543	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one wishes to speak too briefly, nor do I see any more rapporteurs in the Chamber, so I will give the floor to the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117143600	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their comments on the draft law. The bill is part of the implementation of the political agreement, the implementation of funds for road projects at Haderup, Ribe, etc. of 26 August 2016. The bill makes it possible to build a 7.5 km bypass west of Haderup. There are currently problems with the availability and traffic flow on route 34 in Haderup. In addition, there is a lot of heavy traffic which is a nuisance to the local population in Haderup. With the bypass, heavy traffic is moved out of the city, creating a better urban environment in Haderup. At the same time, the bypass can address the problems of accessibility which are on the existing road today. The 5.5 km of bypass is built as an expressway with two plus one-track and level-free crossing of cutting roads. A two plus one-way is a type of road which alternately has one or two lanes in a given direction. The road is also dimensioned to a speed limit of 100 km/h. with middle-car guard and stable-gravel coating in the outer racket. Haderup Omfartsvej is a good example of a socially sound project, and this is due in particular to the fact that it is being established at 100 km/h. In the EIA study, the project was examined with a speed limit of 90 km/h, but the Vejdirektoratet has later assessed the possibility of 100 km/h. Change to 100 km/h. the internal rate of interest rose from 3.8 to 4.5 per cent. When you can drive 100 km/h. on the road, it helps to increase mobility. This means that as a driver you will arrive more quickly from A to B. On the connection of the bypass to the existing road it will be built with two tracks and crossed in level, which is why the speed limit here will be 80 km/h. This happens so that we do not compromise on road safety. Once again, I would like to thank you for your comments and I look forward to the committee's examination of the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117143820	Thank you, Minister. I do not see that there are any requests for a brief comment to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Transport, Building and Housing and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117143841	The debate is open and the first rapporteur is Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen from the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117143908	Thank you. This bill is about children and about all children living and living in Denmark deserve a fair chance, that we should not leave anyone behind on points when they start in primary school. This is about the fact that even if you are not cared for by some of our talented educators in a daycare institution or in another care provision, we still need to be sure that you are well dressed, that you know the Danish language, that you know how things work. It is therefore very important for the Social Democratic Party that we keep an eye on whether children can Danish, whether they are going through the linguistic development they need. This is true both if they come from Peruvian families and if they come from families of different ethnic origins. As a society, we must ensure that they are involved in learning what they need to learn, and if they do not, we must bring them in where they can be part of a community and learn what they need to learn to start school, get an education and create a good life for themselves. This is about equal opportunities. That is why the Social Democratic Party supports the proposal that three-year-olds with language difficulties should have a place in a community in a day-care institution. Whether or not it should be 30 hours a week, we would like to check so that we can see if it is the right cut. But the idea of getting them into a part of a community where they can learn the Danish language and thus secure the right foundation for moving on and getting an education is crucial for us. It is a truth that good day-to-day offers with talented educators and peers from all parts of society are essential for the linguistic and social development of the individual to be where it should be. That is why I believe that this will raise a number of children who would otherwise not have a fair chance. It may look intrusive on paper, but in the real world, where we see it happening now, it is well received. The families are happy about it, the institutions are happy about it, and I am sure that the children will end up being happy about it. So the Social Democratic Party backs the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117144143	Thank you to the rapporteur. I do not see anyone with brief comments, so we will continue in the series of speeches. The next speaker is Mrs Pernille Bendixen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117144156	Thank you for that, President. One of the most important prerequisites for being able to be integrated, both as bilingual but also as a child, is, of course, that one speaks the language. In order to learn to speak the language, one must of course also be there where the language is spoken, in this case out in the day institutions. That's why this bill makes sense. In trying to put an end to parallel societies, it is a good step on the way to requiring bilingual 2-year language testing and then language stimulation if they do not speak well enough. It is a step in the right direction. At Dansk Folkeparti we think that you could make tougher demands in general, but we are satisfied with what has been put forward here. A fight with social control is also appropriate. We cannot, and we will not, accept social control. That is why education and equality are important values, and we should be able to get this into life as early as possible. But language also serves as a bridge to social relations in early childhood and especially later in kindergarten and school. No child should grow up in isolation from other children. If you are lagging behind in language, you are behind in school from the start, and you are also behind in social communities. Starting from a language test rather than the parents' work situation is positive, because it is the individual child and the child's competences that must be the most important thing. It is also a good signal that we send out when we impose sanctions in the form of an end to child benefit. This shows that we mean it, and it shows how important it is for small children to get out and be out in children's communities. Making demands also on private passes, which must be able to speak a reasonable Danish, and that the Danish language is spoken in everyday life, where the children are cared for, is very good. I'm just having a really hard time seeing how to make sure this happens. As it is today, many municipalities only have supervision of private individuals once a year. Even with a strong upgrade of that supervision, it will not be enough. As there is no requirement for private individuals, for example. go to the playroom, the supervision will only to a limited extent ensure that the spoken language is Danish. We in the Danish People's Party would also like to see the demand for two in Danish raised, because we should not only speak the Danish language, we should also like to learn it from ourselves. It is very positive that children are guaranteed codecision and understanding of democracy, as it is one of the cornerstones of Danish culture. Co-determination for a child doesn't have to be the big thing. It could be the choice between an egg food and a liver patty food. However, the part of the bill on language testing of refugees is not acceptable to the Danish People's Party. In our optics, it is not intended that refugees should be integrated and sent back home. With these words, we can support the other parts of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117144457	Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall continue to speak with the next rapporteur, Mrs Anni Matthiesen, the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117144507	Thank you. Today we are dealing first with L 107, and in this context I should like to start by saying that we in the Left are voting in favour of the legislative proposal. I find it sad to read stories in the newspaper that bilingual children actually fall very far behind in language at a very early age. An article back in October in Jyllands-Posten writes that non-Western students are at least one year behind in second grade, and when compared to their classmates, it appears that they actually remain behind most of school hours. These students are mainly behind in Danish and mathematics, and it is actually seen in the 9th grade at the primary school's final examination that the students with a non-Western background are not only one but in fact one and a half years behind their classmates. This is a problem which calls for increased efforts, and that is why the Left and the other governing parties will also be involved in this proposal in the past, in fact as soon as possible. In this way, we can help ensure greater success in integration and, hopefully, also prevent parallel societies and problems with social control. That's exactly what this bill is about. In fact, the draft law provides the municipalities with an opportunity to make a significant earlier effort in relation to engaging in language stimulation. It is the case that the draft law also gives the municipalities the right to impose a compulsory 30-hour care offer on their parents. In addition, the bill includes a demand for Danish as the main language as well as a focus on co-determination, co-responsibility and understanding of democracy in the private care systems. I believe that the initiatives and initiatives contained in the legislative proposal we are discussing right now will make a difference to integration in Denmark in the years to come. This is one of the things we have needed for many years, which is why I am very pleased that we are now taking seriously and that we are making a difference in getting this bill in place. So all in all, the government and thus also the Left play on many different keys to strengthen our day offer. Among other things: we will soon come up with a proposal for a common children's package, which will also focus on ensuring that all children get a better start in life. With these words, I can inform you that the Left is voting in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117144801	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next speaker is Mr. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117144811	Thank you. In the view of the Enhedslisten, the draft law contains a number of problematic elements in terms of coercion and sanctions, and we believe that the part of the draft law which is aimed at the private services is characterised by a significant inconsistency. I would like to start by emphasising that, of course, we think it is important that there is a strong focus on the linguistic development of the smallest children. We agree that it is generally good for the language development of children to go to day care or day care. We believe it can have a particularly positive impact on the language development of children to come into today's offerings if their parents do not or only to a limited extent speak Danish. And that is why we think it is really important that there is an outreach effort to these parents in the municipalities, and we think it is very important that, where you do not already have it, you think very closely between municipal health care and day care, so that all parents get maximum support and are motivated to use day care, whether day care or day care. However, we were opposed to the introduction of coercion and sanctions when they were introduced a few years ago, nor can we support the extension of the system proposed by this proposal. I would say that we think that in isolation it is sympathetic that there should no longer be a distinction between children whose parents are both in employment and children where either the mother or the danger is not in employment. We think it is very sensible that they should be treated in the same way. But neither the extension from 15 to 30 hours nor the extension to two-year-old children are in favour. As far as private care is concerned, we think it is reasonable that we should equate them with the daily offers in relation to Danish as the main language. Nor do we have any objections to the inclusion of the arrangements in a provision similar to that in section 7 of the daily offer law. Fourthly, on co-determination, co-responsibility and democracy. But I would like to say that, frankly, we find it rather strange that this is precisely the provision to which the 0-2-year-old children should be subject, while children should not be covered by the other provisions of the section on the purpose of the daily offers. They should not 1, which is about promoting the well-being, health, development and learning of children. They should not 2 which is about giving children care and supporting the versatile development and self-esteem of each child and helping to ensure a good and safe upbringing. They should not be three, which is about promoting children's learning and the development of competences through experience, play and organised activities, but there is a touch of something unpleasant in this bill, and I think it would be much better to have done so, that we went in and, in relation to private care, ensured that they had to meet exactly the same quality requirements as the municipal and self-serving day-to-day services, so that we had a day-to-day regulation that included all care arrangements including private ones. Finally, I would like to say that I find it strange that the proposal makes demands on parents' Danish skills in order to receive subsidies to look after their own children, although you are an EU citizen, such a requirement is not made. So all in all, I would say that I think it is both a messy and inconsistent proposal that is being put forward. We totally disagree with the elements of coercion and sanctions, which is why we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117145244	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for the floor for short remarks. The next rapporteur is Mrs Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117145253	The government is putting forward a bill to ensure that all children have a fair chance in life. We know that if you start school without the necessary linguistic skills, you are already behind from the start. The vast majority of parents are doing everything they can to ensure that their children have the best conditions in their lives, but unfortunately we also see some cases where they fail their responsibilities and thus the children. We in the Liberal Alliance believe that, as a society, we must step in for the sake of the children. We need to make sure that no children are allowed to travel in a context where Danish values do not exist at all, because it is absolutely crucial for the children's future that they master Danish and can function in Danish society. This is the way to education, to jobs, to a good and free life. With this bill, the government is proposing three concrete initiatives, which hopefully will include more children in the Danish community, and the Liberal Alliance is fully committed to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117145351	Thank you to the rapporteur, for whom there are no brief comments either. We shall continue at the same pace to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beyer de Ryke. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117145411	For the alternative, it is incredibly important that all children in Denmark learn the Danish language. Languages are admission tickets to everything else in life, both education and work, but also leisure and social activities. Therefore, our approach to this bill is that we will look at the challenges that need to be addressed in order for the alternative to vote in favour of the proposal. The first part is about securing all three-year-old bilingual children with language difficulties a stimulus offer in the form of a place in a daily offer for 30 hours a week, and this must be done independently of whether parents are in work. To this extent, we think that the alternative makes sense, although we believe that in the committee work we should discuss whether such a one size fits all-solution is the best. It could be that some of these kids here, for example. needs a speech teacher instead of getting into a busy daycare centre. When it comes to advancing the language assessment of children from 3 to 2 years of age, we also have some questions and some thoughts. According to the Children's Council, two-year-old children are only just beginning to develop their language, and this is done in incredibly different tempos from child to child, without necessarily pointing to non-age language development. The variation is naturally great. Neither vocabulary, grammar, nor pronunciation are stable indicators. Two-year-olds are therefore too early to set standards for the assessment of language developments. According to the Children's Council, research indicates that indicators cannot be found in two-year-old children who indicate that later in life they will have problems with language. Some scientists feel that way, and scientists often think differently. So it's clear that I've gone a little further in this to try to find out if there's anything in it. I haven't gone that far, but I've asked speech teachers and the network about speech teachers who do these tests. They believe that it is pointless to test bilingual and for that matter also Danish children with only Danish as a language at the age of two. Only half of Danish children will be able to do what is called two-year sentences at the age of two, and there is no indication that the half who cannot will have problems with languages later in life. If bilingual children have for the time being only heard their mother tongue, they are at the age of two, although they have had a year in crèche, hardly beginning to speak Danish, but only beginning to understand it. I think this is extremely important, because it is clearly the intention behind this legislation to ensure that more of those who have language problems learn Danish. But if this is the right thing to do, at least it's worth examining very, very thoroughly, then you're actually doing the opposite by making language screenings of two-year-olds who can't be used for anything. On the other hand, there is greater agreement that when children are 3 years of age, language screenings begin to tell something about the child's possible future. So I would really advise us in committee to be skilful in the committee work to find out if there is anything about this, because in that case the law is working against what it is trying to do. At the same time, we do not believe that child benefit should be stopped if parents do not agree to send their children for 30-hour services. We risk sending families with children into poverty that will cause problems on many other parameters. When we look at developments, it was 80% in 2009. of all bilingual children from 1 to 4 years of age who were offered daily, while in 2014 it had risen to 84 per cent. That means, according to our calculations, if I'm wrong, there's only 16%. bilingual children who are not offered daily. This law is therefore about the percentage of 16 per cent who have language problems. How many is that? We would very much like to ask whether the Minister has replied to that, because it is quite relevant, in terms of whether it is necessary to legislate. Indeed, the question is whether this good development cannot be enhanced through outreach work. All in all, the support of the Alternative on the first point requires us to be convinced of the meaning of language screening for two-year-olds and to make the scheme voluntary, of course combined with a strong outreach effort. The second part of the bill requires care arrangements for Danish to be the main language and that private care should give children codecision, co-responsibility and understanding of democracy. In the alternative, we agree with the first part and we can always see the point of giving children codecision, co-responsibility and understanding of democracy. These are by their very nature extremely important concepts. But today's children are learning to be people in the first place. We agree with the Danish Friskoleforening's assessment that it will act as a symbolic measure, and we do not see how this requirement can be put into practice, and certainly not how we can check whether it is followed. That is why we would like to ask the Minister how this is actually intended in relation to the fact that private care should give children codecision, co-responsibility and understanding of democracy. How are you going to measure that it's being done? And how is supervision supposed to control it? The conclusion is that we can support the first part of this point, but we think that the point of democracy and co-determination must be formulated as a declaration of intent or the like, if it is not possible to give concrete form and follow-up. The final point is that parents who receive subsidies for the care of their own children must prove that they can speak Danish at an adequate level as a condition for the payment of grants. We agree with that. So, in short, the alternative can agree to this, unless the answers to the questions we have asked convince us otherwise; we can vote in favour of the proposal if sanctions are dropped and individual opportunities are created for children to improve their language, if the relevance of language assessment for two-year-olds is ensured and if it does not replace the assessment of three-year-olds bilinguals, and if it is made an intention to teach young children about participation and democracy, when the most important thing for them is well-being, play and the maintenance of relations with others.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117145951	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we will continue the rapporteur's line, and the next rapporteur is Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117150003	Thank you. All children must have a chance. I think that is one of the most important things we can do as politicians at all. And there's just a big difference between how kids grow up. Some children have adults around them who love to play with them and talk a lot about them and ask open, curious questions instead of just asking yes and no questions and giving orders or scolding. Therefore, there are incredibly large differences in how many words children hear, depending on the family they grow up in. It means something, both because childhood has a right in itself, but also because what we learn early in life is a breeding ground for how we do later in life. Therefore, if we are to succeed in giving all children a chance, we must start early and then two years is too late. In the Radical Left, we think it is important for all children to learn Danish, and that is why we really find it a little strange that the government in this way is going to wait until children are 2 years old. Why shouldn't we start from the beginning? Why not use the healthcare professionals who come home with the family? They could bring with them an educator and thus talk about opportunities, build confidence in the day care institution and perhaps even help to follow the family in the transition to the day care institution and thus build a bridge. For basically, I believe that parents want their children the best. That is why it is not just about scolding parents and threatening to take money away from them, but about building confidence in our institutions. On the other hand, two years is too early, because what kind of test are we going to do of two-year-olds? What kind of language view is it supposed to build on? One should be careful not to stare blindly and think that language is just a matter of whether children can look at a picture and then say a word. For our language and communication are much more than that. The first thing we learn is not the words at all. It is smiling and grasping for things, i.e. mimics, gestures, the language that is in our body. And that is why, as a Parliament, we also have a very important task in not narrowing the language down to merely a matter of words. We must insist on having a broad concept of language and constantly insist that language is not just something you can learn from sitting down between 8 a.m. 10 a.m. and 10 a.m. 11, but that it is something children learn all the time in all situations when there are adults around those who have time to put things into words and ask curious questions. So in the Radical Left we think it is a very, very important subject that the government is addressing. But because it is so important, it is also crucial to do the right thing. We can see the point in making Danish demands on parents who are paid to care for their children, and we also think it is very important to discuss how we promote the Danish children's vision, which is based on codecision and co-responsibility and democracy. But where I find it rather difficult to see how it is going to work in reality is, of course, that part of this bill is to make demands on the municipalities to supervise whether it is now also ensured that children have an understanding of democracy. That is why I would like to ask the Minister how he envisages this happening in concrete terms. So, you want someone from the municipality to come home to the family and ask the 2-year-old with the help of a questionnaire, or what? How is the municipality supposed to put a fly bone in that there is a certain understanding of democracy here? On the whole, we think it is important to address this, but it is also very important for us that we should not do anything that is contrary to intention but, on the contrary, succeed in helping children early. Therefore, I would suggest that as part of the committee procedure, we invite the educators in and have them tell about the experiences that are from Aarhus to use health care providers and educators at home. For what if we managed to get more children to go to day care without using force? That would be much better.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117150502	There is just one for a brief remark. Sir. Jacob Mark, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117150506	Thank you for that, and thank you for a good speech. It may well be that I overheard it, but when this proposal was presented in the press by the former minister, the radical rapporteur was very sceptical about it, because the rapporteur just said that we must have confidence. What I have perhaps overheard is the rapporteur's position on her own party joint statement today in the press that language testing should be carried out for all children at the age of three, namely Mrs Anna Mee Allerslev's announcement on behalf of KL. Does the rapporteur agree with that? As far as I am concerned, it is precisely an expression of distrust that one does not believe that the individual educator can assess when the individual child is to be tested, and that is precisely not what this proposal says.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117150549	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117150552	I am opposed to introducing a test for all three-year-old children. So it has to be on KL's account.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117150558	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117150600	Thanks for the call. That was a nice clear answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117150606	That was the end of the rapporteur's speech. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jacob Mark, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117150622	Thank you. In the SF, we support this proposal because we believe that it will have a positive impact on children who need special support early in life and perhaps later, because the children who are behind in general language understanding and those who have a smaller vocabulary already in crèche and kindergarten are behind in points for the rest of their lives. Some have said that they are behind by 11⁄2 years compared to other children when they start primary school. I do not quite know whether that is true, but it is quite obvious at least in the studies that lie that when children are already having difficulty when they start school, they typically find it difficult to get through school, in their youth education and typically also professionally in higher education. In addition, they are also socially difficult because language and words help to form our world and our understanding of the world and help us to read codes. So when children cannot do so, it has both professional and social consequences for them. There are also studies I have brought with me if anyone is interested, and it is from the report on early development and learning that shows that especially non-western children are behind on points when it comes to both vocabulary and general language understanding. So I would just recommend that you do not neglect that problem. It is true that we have succeeded in helping more, but so there are still more children with a non-Western background who are having a hard time when it comes to language. I believe that we also have a responsibility from in here to ensure that we achieve that task in the future. There are more gripes and also more gripes than those taken into account in this bill. I will deal with that. First of all, I think it is very good that we have the opportunity to test children's language. I agree with the rapporteur of the Alternative when the Alternative's rapporteur says that language testing makes very little sense at the age of two, but I am really quite glad that this draft law has been developed to deal with the fact that it is an opportunity that they have around them and is not something they should have. I think that what is really good about this bill versus the KL report that has come today is that it is the individual educators and the individual experts who can assess when the children need to be tested and that there is no obligation to do so because we politicians say that they should do so. And now that they are being tested, I think it is a very good idea to give them language stimulation, to tell the parents of these children that their child should go in a day offer. It's not a joke, is it? It has to because children in a day-to-day offer have social relations, and in a day-to-day offer we got written into the bill • children have dealings with people who are trained in language stimulating the children and giving them a linguistic understanding. So I think we'll see, when we look back on this day in the future, that this bill helped to raise the language skills of the children. That's the most important thing for me. Then the bill also implies that private care is required for Danish to be the main language and that parents who receive subsidies for the care of their own children must be able to speak Danish at a sufficiently high level. That's more than reasonable. It must of course be the case that if you care for your own child in Denmark, you ensure that the child has all the prerequisites for learning the Danish language, otherwise I do not think you should have subsidies from the Danish state to look after your child. Then I would also like to say that there are some things that we would have liked to have seen different in this. It's never been SF's cup of tea or whatever you call it... that you need to use the threat of taking the child's money to make sure that the kids go to day care. I think that in the vast majority of cases it will be the case that if you tell the parents that the child needs to come to day care to learn the Danish language, the parents will choose it especially because there is the language stimulation that they get paid the day offer and get paid for the language stimulation. This can help to make it possible to receive it. So I would have liked to have missed that, but it is already back from the previous legislation that is in this area. In addition, I also believe that there are some things that do not appear in the draft law that should have been included. There are two things in particular. There is the very early effort: the one where healthcare professionals, social workers, parents and educators work together in close cooperation to find out what is best for the children, but also sometimes to help the parents along the way, because this whole thing with children can be difficult for many parents, and I think that if we let some of our best people in that area help the parents, it will all come on its own. Then there is a SF-Classic: there is also a need for more educators, because if we are to succeed in ensuring that all children thrive and that all children get the linguistic skills they need, there is also a need to be skilled educators who are trained, out in the day institutions, and there must be enough of them for each child to have time. We need that too, but I am sure that we will be allowed to discuss this with the Minister on later occasions. But all in all, the good makes up for the bad part of this bill, and that's why we're behind it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117151144	Thank you. A brief comment was just made on one point. Sir. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117151151	Thank you. When I heard the rapporteur's speech, I did so, that I just went in and looked at what the SF actually voted, when sanctions were imposed for what may be four years ago, five years ago. At that time, the SF was very opposed to legislation imposing sanctions. What's happened? What experience has been gained since the SF now feels the opposite? I have heard that the rapporteur is not enthusiastic, but what makes the weighting of the advantages and disadvantages different?
ParlaMint-DK_20170117151228	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117151229	Well, on the day that Minister Ellen Trane Nørby presented this proposal, I said in the press, and so did the Social Democrats, that we did not think it was a good idea to take child money from the parents. But, on the other hand, it is already in the legislation. So whether we vote for or against does not change that. I think that the measures that lie in this are so good that it is going to be SF to support it, but I would also like to say quite clearly that if it were to be the case that we could get a majority in order to one day remove this from taking child money from the parents, but keep the remaining, in other words allow for language stimulation and compulsory day-to-day provision, then it will be a path that the SF goes. But we basically think that there are so many important early efforts in this proposal that that is why we support it and then we would like to change the other one at another time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117151314	Does the author wish to speak again? Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117151317	Now the proposal here extends the pressure. That is, of course, the consequence of extending it to double hours and involving other children. As I hope my rapporteur's speech also showed, I fully agree that it is good for children and for children's linguistic development to go on day-to-day offers. I just think it is crucial that there is a relationship of trust, that parents can be confident that the meeting they have with the authorities, the meeting they have with health care, the meeting they have with the daily offers, is based on trust and an understanding that the public wants to support them and their children's language development. Does the rapporteur not believe that this really helps to create distrust of our health care, of our day care institutions, and thus to have the opposite effect than the one that I hope is intended?
ParlaMint-DK_20170117151411	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117151412	In my view, we are not extending the scope for sanctions. The possibilities of sanctions are the same when we have adopted this proposal as they were before, but we are extending the efforts or the demands that are being made, that is right. And I think it makes sense to make increased demands that if a child has linguistic problems, it should be more in day-to-day offers with more trained staff. Then I feel just like that, and I think that's the municipal, low-practical thing in me, that I think that the employees who are out there, both the educators, but also those in the municipal administration, will find all the other ways before they will ever use that tool to take child money from the parents. I have experienced this in the other cases where it is a possibility in Danish legislation. Well, the social workers, the health workers, the educators know that it is not a viable path to go in order to create confidence, and I am, in fact, reasonably confident that this bill will be the same in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117151504	Sir. Torsten Gejl has also submitted for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117151507	Thank you. I would like the rapporteur's assessment of one thing about this with language screenings of two-year-olds. I read the bill in such a way that what it says is that it is also possible for municipalities to choose to advance the statutory language assessment and subsequent language stimulation from the age of three to the age of two. Well, the municipalities can choose to advance it to the 2-year-old age. Now the rapporteur agrees that it may not make sense to make these language screenings of two-year-olds. Is it the rapporteur's view that we are at risk of these language screenings of children at the age of two simply replacing the screenings at the age of three so that we risk being left alone in many places? Or is it the rapporteur's opinion that a screening will be carried out both at the age of two and at the age of three? Is there any possibility that the screening of children at the age of two in some municipalities will sometimes be left alone and may not make any sense at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20170117151615	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117151616	I think that is a good question, and my answer is that I do not think it will replace the language test that is being carried out by many children at the age of three. This will be a tool, I think, that you get in the municipalities and out in the individual day care centres and that you will spend on the fewest children. That will be the case for two reasons, I think. One is the very low-practical reason that it is more expensive to introduce two tests than one and that their economy is already so pressured. That's the rational reason. Then there is the other reason, namely that it is professional people we have out there and they will in the vast majority of cases look at the children and say that it simply does not make sense to test already now. But you can actually also see that some of the development reports show marked differences already at the age of two, and if there are individual cases of children out there, where there is a teacher or a social worker thinking that it could actually make sense right now, then I will not stand in the way of it. But I'm not the one who says that all children have to be tested that way. It stays out locally, you decide it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117151710	The questioner for the second brief remark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117151713	Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117151717	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Orla Østerby, Conservative People's Party. Welcome to the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117151725	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to say that the draft law is an invitation for those who have come to our country to have the opportunity to speak the language that allows them to be integrated and to have the education needed in Danish society. The draft law we are discussing today concerns children who do not go into any day-to-day services but who are being cared for in a different way. The crucial thing is that young children do not grow up in closed environments isolated from the rest of Danish society, where they do not have the opportunity to hear and learn Danish. The draft law will also strengthen efforts against the parallel societies and social control that we see in some places. A well-developed Danish and knowledge of democratic standards and values equips the child to be part of the context. Solid competences in Danish are crucial for a good start to school. The bill means that all 3-year-old bilingual children without a daily offer, who are judged to need a language supporting activity on the basis of a language assessment, must have a place in a daily offer 30 hours a week. This removes the employment criterion which has so far been crucial for the provision of language stimulation for bilingual children. The municipalities also have the opportunity to move forward the statutory language assessment and possibly subsequent language stimulation of children from 3 years of age down to 2 years of age. Studies have shown that more than half of the bilingual children start in kindergarten without the necessary Danish language skills. In addition, it is planned to make demands on private care arrangements that Danish should be the main language. In addition, it is suggested that parents who receive grants for the care of their own children as a condition for receiving the grant must prove that they can speak Danish at a sufficiently high level. It is important that the municipality has the ultimate opportunity to draw benefits from parents who do not cooperate on this. That is not the objective, but if there is no consequence and parents do not want to cooperate, we will have a problem in this area. I believe that the problem is very small in the municipalities, and the fact that benefits can be deducted dates back to 2012, and this is just an extension of it. The Conservative People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117152020	Thank you to the rapporteur. There were no brief comments, so I give the floor to the Minister for Children and Social Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117152032	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteurs. I would like to start by signing off on the receipt of the bill and the very constructive debate we have had. When there are some who criticise the people's regime, they should see a debate like this because the commitment, the flaming speeches and the respect with which one treats one another, I think is fantastic to witness. So thank you for that. As the bill shows, the government does not want children to grow up and live in isolation from Danish society, and that is what it is today for some bilingual children in vulnerable residential areas. They may be children who do not go to day care, but instead are cared for at home by a grandparent or the like. It may be problematic if the caregiver does not speak enough Danish to dress the child in language and introduce them to the values that are fundamental in Danish society before the child starts in kindergarten class. During the course of the debate there were a number of issues which I would also like to address in my speech. Is it even meaningful to make a language assessment of children at 2 years of age? are asked by e.g.: Mr. Torsten Gejl from the Alternative. There has actually been a dialogue with the researcher behind the material for the current language assessment material for three years prior to the drafting of this bill. She has stated that she considers that the productive vocabulary of a 2-year-old is actually of such a size that language assessments of children in this age group can be well and meaningfully carried out. This isn't about taking a language screening for three-year-olds and just adapting it to the two-year-olds. It has to be an independent assessment of two-year-olds. I can also say that a language assessment tool is already being used for two-year-olds in a major research programme in the field of day-to-day provision. Another of the issues that I am likely to encounter or which have been raised during the debate is how the private services should work with a sense of democracy. Of course, this is not about the children being heard in the constitution, nor about the drawing up of a questionnaire to be sent out. After all, it is a long way off to organise the care so that the children have a basic knowledge of the values on which Danish society is based. After all, these may be democratic values of codecision, dialogue, respect for diversity and, above all, gender equality. Specifically, the activities in the schemes can be organized so that the children are consulted so that they are supported in listening to others and so that they also respect different views. This will, of course, be done in a dialogue between municipalities and private carers, and it is not the intention that it should be measured very hard. It can be problematic if the caregiver does not speak Danish enough to dress the children in language and introduce them to the values that are fundamental in Danish society before they start in kindergarten. As has also been mentioned by several people, there is too much of a gap today. There are simply some children who go to school and are too much behind on points. The bill is intended to help several bilingual children hear and learn Danish and from an early age become acquainted with the values and traditions that we attach importance to here in the country, among other things. democratic values such as tolerance, co-determination, respect for diversity and gender equality, as I said just now. That is why, of course, I am also available to answer any questions which the committee may wish to clarify during the committee's proceedings, and I would just like to say that I welcome the broad support for the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117152403	That was the Minister's speech and there is one for short remarks. Sir. Torsten Gejl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117152410	It is about these language screenings, where, of course, there is also a huge difference among scientists as to whether they can be used for something or not at all, so I hope, of course, that in the committee work they will ensure that they are the ones who believe that they can be used for something that is right, because it will be a huge loss if many municipalities replace a language screening that cannot be used for anything, with the one that is when the children are three years old. What I want to ask the Minister is: what is the Minister's position? Are we risking that there are many municipalities that only use language screening at 2 years and then drop it at 3 years? I saw some concerns around in the hearings as to whether there will be too much administration now. I actually saw some people who were worried about whether they would also be screened at the age of three. Are we risking that there will now only be a language screening for two-year-olds around many municipalities, in the view of the Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20170117152516	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117152519	I would like to start by saying in relation to this, whether you can use a language screening or not, that a language screening does nothing in itself. It says something about a level, just like a PISA study does nothing of itself, but it should of course give the educators the indication of how to work with the child in the future. I am therefore fully confident that the educators and employees in the individual institutions will make assessments which are entirely appropriate. There may well be children who do not need a language assessment at all, because they are so well aware that it is not necessary, and then there may be some children who need a language assessment when they are 3 years old, because they may be just on the edge. There may also be some children who can already be seen early in the process that it will make good sense to make a language assessment at the age of two. Then it may be that you get an effort made so that you may not have to rescreen the language at 3 years of age. It may also be that you have to do it again at the age of three. However, I have to say that I have full confidence that local staff are making decisions, and I would also like to say openly that there should not be a single requirement for documentation from my hand. A language screening is, of course, a documentation that you have to sit down and write, but which is not necessary. The documentation requirements that are out there must be necessary and they must be meaningful, and I certainly see that this proposal is the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117152635	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117152638	After all, it is the opinion of many experts that the language screenings of two-year-olds are completely useless. My second question is about the issue of codecision and democracy. In addition, the bill states that private care must give children codecision, co-responsibility and understanding of democracy. And then in the next sentence: it follows that the municipality's supervision of the private services should be strengthened in the future. So this about learning democracy and co-determination is directly linked to the next issue, which is about supervision. How is supervision supposed to check if this is really happening?
ParlaMint-DK_20170117152722	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117152724	I actually tried to say it in my opening speech because I think it is a very good question and I would really like to address it. It's not like you come out as a municipality and have a checklist with you. After all, it is a matter of basics to have the routines and good values that are Danish incorporated. It is, for example, eating together in the care system, that you sit and talk together, that you constantly try to develop the children, that you have some activities, that you have gender equality, and it is clear that it cannot be boiled down into some rigid form, but I think it is important that we now have this, because it is a good signal to send the municipal authorities that when they have supervision, it is something they need to be aware of.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117152811	The next brief remark is Mr. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117152817	I am one of those who have long been calling for a balance to be struck between the quality requirements of private care schemes and those of day-to-day services. Can the Minister not explain how it might be that the paragraph has just been taken? 4 out of the purpose clause of the daily offer law? I can see you've done that. So, I have nothing against what is said about democracy, it is part of our day-to-day legislation, and that is how it is in relation to all children who are in municipal and self-serving day-to-day services. But why are the other values mentioned in the paragraph of purpose? I also mentioned it from the platform... not important in relation to these children? Why is it exactly democracy and co-responsibility that one thinks is so important in relation to one-year-old children?
ParlaMint-DK_20170117152913	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117152914	It is. So what we are doing here is addressing codecision and democratic understanding because we simply think it is important and we can see that there is a challenge out there, in other words that some private services are far removed from the Danish concept of democracy, from gender equality, from diversity, from inclusiveness. And to get it in as one of the demands made, we actually think it is natural. And following on from my reply to Mr. Torsten Gejl I should just like to stress that such a rigid interpretation has not been proposed. It is, of course, a question of the fact that, when there is supervision, there is a discussion on how to ensure that these requirements are implemented in reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117153004	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117153006	Now, of course, I didn't mean 1-year-olds, but two-year-old kids are the ones we're talking about here. But if you look further down in the daily offer law, you see the next paragraph, which deals with the curricula, and paragraphs. 3 in the curriculum is precisely about children's linguistic development. If this is so much about language, and when it is now being legislated about, why is it that exactly the place in the day-to-day law that focuses on children's linguistic development should not be included in this scheme? I just don't understand. I simply do not understand why the Minister has not said in relation to the private services: let us now get the quality up. And when we talk about strengthening the work on languages, it was at least reasonable that what the daily offer law is about linguistic development was also something that was dealt with in the private care systems. I just don't think it's connected.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117153104	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117153105	Well, that's the way it has to be. I think it is simply because we look at things differently in this and have different political views. However, I would just like to add that we will, of course, be presenting a review of the curricula this spring. Right now, a forum has been set up where BUPL, KL and a number of other stakeholders are helping to qualify the learning plans so that we make them stronger. But I think it is simply a difference of opinion, and I do not intend to drag much documentation down on private care. On the other hand, I think it is very important that we have good teaching plans that are well-functioning and that we can use and that they will be strengthened. So I'll bring it to you this spring.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117153150	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak and the debate is therefore closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs, Internal Affairs and the Committee on Children's Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117153208	The debate is open and the first speaker is the Minister for Children and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117153239	Thank you. SF has tabled motion for a resolution B 25, which requires the government to ensure by 1 June that educational staff in contracted day-care institutions and private institutions are covered by an agreement. In the motion for a resolution, the SF mentions that the absence of agreements in some day institutions exposes other institutions to unfair competition, as well as providing institutions without an agreement with an incentive to employ untrained staff. I would like to start by reminding you that in Denmark we have a model where there is a clearly defined division of labour between Parliament, the authorities and the social partners, and I am sure everyone here is familiar with the Danish model. It follows, of course, that it is the social partners who agree on terms and conditions of employment through collective agreements, and there is also freedom of agreement between the parties. There is no obligation to conclude agreements or agreements with a specific content. It also follows from the model that the trade unions have the possibility of conflicting with companies and employers in order to support a desire for an agreement. A legal requirement such as what SF wants here, that day institutions should be subject to an agreement, will therefore be a breach of the previous practice on the Danish labour market, and there has not previously been a majority to change that in the Folketing. As I said earlier, the authors of the motion for a resolution state, inter alia, that: the proposal that day-care institutions without an agreement will have a greater incentive than other institutions to employ untrained staff, and this is considered by the proposers to be unsustainable because well-trained staff provide children with the best development opportunities. After all, it is difficult to disagree with the proposers that a competent staff supports good quality in day-to-day provision, and I should like to emphasise this with a committed and competent educational staff who can provide care and security for children and help all children develop and learn. However, I do not share the fears of the proposers that private institutions, without an agreement, will employ largely untrained staff. Nor do I think that is what should happen. That applies, among other things. for private institutions, that they themselves take children into the institutions. Therefore, they will also have an incentive to provide a good and secure offer that meets the expectations of parents in their children's daily services and, if the institutions cannot deliver it, they cannot attract parents forward-looking. At the same time, according to the daily offer law, the municipality must impose the same requirements on outsourced day-care institutions and private institutions which are placed at the municipality's own institutions. That is clear, among other things. the law states that the approval criteria laid down for private institutions must not be more relaxed or more restrictive than the requirements of the other day institutions. Examples of this include the classification, physical framework and precisely the educational background of the performing staff. This means that if, for example, there is a municipality in a municipality. is a requirement that there should be a certain percentage of educational trained staff, that the manager should be a trained educator or something quite different, then it should apply to all institutions in the municipality, whether they are municipal or private, or whether they are covered by an agreement or not. So, in conclusion, I would like to sum up: in Denmark we have a model in which the social partners agree on terms and conditions of employment. We in the government think that is important to hold on to. In addition, the municipalities must today make demands on the educational background of the staff both in the private and in the public institutions, which is why I do not think it should be feared that the institutions which do not have an agreement will employ more untrained staff than other institutions. Against this background, the government does not support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117153611	Someone has a question. Sir. Jacob Mark, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117153616	I therefore agree with the Minister that it should have been written in the proposal that it should be contractual conditions under which they should be employed, just as we do when we make social clauses. Having said that, I also believe that there is a strong argument for introducing it precisely, because we are talking about tax dollars, which go out as subsidies to the private day care institutions. And just as I believe that wage and working conditions should be required when we use tax dollars to build, I also believe that we should make demands when we use tax dollars in private day-care institutions. So we must ensure that the tax dollars we spend go out to good pay and working conditions and that there is no DKK 100,000. In other words, we have seen that those who are in the private day-care institutions are entitled to a pension. So if the proposal were amended, then it was the case that only private day-care institutions with contractual relationships could be granted subsidies. So, would it be possible to back it up?
ParlaMint-DK_20170117153718	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117153720	I think I am actually saying this quite clearly: today it is the case that the municipalities can make demands on the educational background of the staff, and they must make the same demands on both the public and the private. In fact, I believe that it would be a clash with local self-government if we went in and started to regulate it very closely from Christiansborg's point of view. And I am not concerned about that, and I do not actually have the impression that there is a big problem out there either. Because if you have your child in a private kindergarten or in a private crèche and you do not think that there are enough trained staff, then you can take your child out and at least sign up for another offer. So I do not have the impression that there is a major problem today, and I am very concerned that it is therefore the social partners who are making the agreements in the field of employment, including in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117153807	The questioner with the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117153810	In fact, I think there is a problem, and that is why we are tabling this motion for a resolution. For we can read in the media that educators and educators in private day care institutions around earn significantly less and have significantly worse pay and working conditions than in municipal day care institutions in many places. What does the Minister think he can do about it, and does the Minister think that it is a problem at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20170117153833	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117153834	It must be the case that when you apply for employment, whether public or private, you choose to apply where you have light. And then it is clear what the pay package is about. To start regulating it from Christiansborg's side, I would just like to warn against. So I am not prepared to table any legislative proposals that go down the road the rapporteur would like to go down.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117153908	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments on the Minister's speech, so we are going to start talking, and the first rapporteur is Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117153928	Thank you. We should not have social dumping for tax dollars. Both the SF's rapporteur and I have said so, and the entire centre-left wing has said so in all the five years I have been at Christiansborg now. This discussion has mainly been about building installations when we have things in offer; when we have to build a school, it should not be by anyone who earns 50 DKK. in the hour and has horrible working conditions. We should not compete on such bad conditions; we should not compete on unfair competition parameters. This also applies, of course, when we talk about our children. In the first area, we have come very, very far from the fact that the municipalities require of their subcontractors and their partners that there are contractual conditions. I would really like to go there in relation to our children's area too. I think it's fine that we have private alternatives, I think it's fine that parents can choose a private kindergarten with a very special focus, if that's what you think suits your family, but fair competition is a necessity. And in some places it may well be that the minister says that she does not experience that there is a problem that is experienced as a problem by our municipal politicians, mainly because they are actually confused with what they must demand. The minister makes it sound really simple, and it really makes me want us to give the municipalities a better foundation from in here, in relation to what they can demand from their private care alternatives; what they can demand when someone comes and wants to set up a private kindergarten. Because right now there's doubt. I think it is very sensible that this is something that is driven by our municipal politicians, but I do not wish to deny that it is a discussion that we should take forward in this regard in order to create security and security and clarity about what our municipal colleagues have of opportunities to ensure that precisely this competition is fair and that there is no social dumping with our children as an effort. We will not be voting in favour of calling for an agreement to be concluded, but we would very much like to take the discussion on how we can demand, in parallel with our tender, that there be fair working conditions, including for people working with our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117154153	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so the next rapporteur is Mrs Pernille Bendixen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117154203	Thank you. I actually got sad when I read this proposal. Firstly, the proposers describe how it has had some negative consequences. So the question has to be asked: who are the negative consequences? I guess day-to-day offers are something we do for the sake of the children and parents, not for the sake of the municipalities or for our sake in here. And the parents are obviously satisfied and enthusiastic, for the search for private people is increasing year by year. I find it rather odd how it can be turned into something negative. The authors describe how private individuals are responsible for the fragmentation of the population and the absence of a social melting pot. That's a bit of bullshit, because of course there's that, it's just somewhere else. With the proposal, the proposers want an agreement to be imposed now, the rapporteur has directed it to contractual relationships over private individuals because they attract untrained labour. I simply do not see how that conclusion can be reached. I do not think there is any indication that uneducated labour is specifically attracted to a private institution. As has already been mentioned, the state is not interfering in the regulation of pay and working conditions as long as the social partners can solve the problems themselves. It is something special about the Danish model, and SF now thinks we should abandon it because it is believed that private institutions attract untrained labour. In the light of this motion for a resolution, a link has been provided to a • if you ask me • very untrustworthy and outdated report which basically concludes that crèches are better offers than day care providers because the staff in crèches are trained. The report concludes this on the basis of graduation grades, which should therefore be better for the children who have gone to a crèche than for those who have attended day care. The report just does not take into account the ten years that have passed since care was taken and the developments that have taken place in the meantime. The figures underlying the analysis are from the late 1990s, so they are almost 20 years old. But it is just the case that day care has raised its quality very, very much over the past 15 years with the use of play rooms, apprenticeships and local education, while the quality of day nurseries has decreased simultaneously in terms of less time and fewer employees for the children. The report is untrustworthy because the researchers who have done the exact same analysis, just for another company, came up with a completely different conclusion, namely that there was no difference between the two offers. What is not included in that report is the assessment of parents' educational background, and we have just made clear in the previous draft law, L 107, that children who meet with shorter parental education are doing worse linguistically and mathematically than children who meet with longer education. This is also confirmed by the 2016 Social Capital Fund note. In addition, there is another factor which has not been included in the authors' report: the socio-economic level, which is often lower in the small municipalities, where more day carers are employed, than in the large municipalities, where the socio-economic level is slightly higher and where there are also more day nurseries. That is why I think this is a bit of contempt for private institutions and for untrained staff, and I do not really like that. Instead of putting a label on the 580 million. kr. and dictate that they should go to more trained staff, I think we should leave it up to the municipalities whether they want that solution. There are smaller municipalities that are very challenged on their economy, and for them it can therefore make better sense to employ warm hands and not necessarily hands with a title on them. Against this background, the Danish People's Party cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117154619	The rapporteur has just to wait a moment. There is one person who has a brief comment. Sir. Jacob Mark, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117154624	Thank you. There were a number of questions to ask, but I would like to thank the rapporteur for having both read reports and relate to several different aspects of this. First of all, I think that this slippage to private daycare institutions is a bad development, because it is going out of the municipal community, but most of all because you do not have the same quality requirements for the private daycare institutions. We talked about it in the past, too, and it is the quality requirements that ensure that the children get the best and the early effort. I would like to ask two questions about some areas where I think DF is usually on the right side. The first question is whether there should be social dumping with tax dollars. In other words, it will be accepted that employees who are employed for Danish tax dollars go on worse pay and working conditions than their colleagues in, for example. Municipal day care? Will that be accepted? That's actually the problem we're trying to solve with this proposal. The second question is: does the rapporteur recognise that it is better for Denmark's children to interact with trained staff in day nurseries, day care centres, kindergartens and schools... you are involved in the school reform, which is precisely trying to deal with this issue ■ than having dealings with uneducated staff? Does the rapporteur recognise that there is, like, a quality in having trained staff?
ParlaMint-DK_20170117154737	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117154739	Thank you for that and thank you for the question. If that was the starting point for the motion for a resolution that has been sent out, then it could have been written in the resolution, but there is no mention of that. What is said is that private institutions attract uneducated labour, and I just do not agree with that. In relation to social dumping, we can easily agree, but it can only be said that this is something that they can decide on in the local town councils, so it is no longer. As far as trained staff are concerned, we fully recognise that there is a need for trained educators, but not to the extent that the SF wishes. I just don't agree. I agree that there must be some educational sparring and that there must also be a certain degree of trained staff, but again it must be up to the municipal councils to find out how they will solve it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117154829	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117154831	Yes, it is true that it can be solved locally, but we can see that there are actually too few and very few people who solve it locally, perhaps because the guidance is poor, as the Social Democrat rapporteur said. So what I just want to ask is: if we change this proposal, so it's either a guide, or it's about employees getting paid according to collective relationships, would DF say that this is an effort you want to make, that this is a problem you want to address?
ParlaMint-DK_20170117154859	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117154900	We would always like to take part in looking at existing problems and we would very much like to enter into a dialogue on this. As far as the specific issue is concerned, I would prefer a new motion for a resolution to be tabled, which we will then have the opportunity to examine properly and which will then be subject to proper dialogue at the time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117154919	The next short remark is Mr. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117154926	I therefore agree with the rapporteur on some of the critical remarks on the points made in the motion for a resolution. I agree that the report referred to by Aarhus University is not very reliable in its conclusions, almost useless in its conclusions. Having said that, the rapporteur does not think that it is a problem that we find in a number of private day-care institutions that employees are paid 30 000 to 40 000 kroner. less a year than their colleagues in self-owned and municipal day care institutions? Is that not a problem, regardless of what you think about the comments on the proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20170117155009	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117155010	Of course it is a problem, but you always have your freedom not to be in that job anymore. That's one thing. The second thing is that we can, of course, have a talk about it, but I think we should be careful not to take such a profound decision from in here, which may affect a large part of the private institutions, but where the problem may not be so great out there. Does the rapporteur understand what I mean?
ParlaMint-DK_20170117155040	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117155045	The fact that the individual can not work there if he or she does not want to do so can be said of all types of social dumping, including in construction sites, where some are willing to work for a very low wage. But isn't it a problem when the private day care institutions we are talking about here aren't some people who are running for their own money? On the contrary, day care institutions run for public funds, where the less paid to the employees in question is converted into a profit that the owners can withdraw from the institution? Isn't this a lax business with the citizens' money? Is it not unreasonable for taxpayers' money to be able to underpay people working in day-care institutions?
ParlaMint-DK_20170117155129	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117155130	Of course that is a problem, and I also think that we should have a further debate on it. Against the background described in this motion for a resolution, I just do not agree, but of course I agree that we should not put up with social dumping, nor should we do so for tax dollars. So let's find another way to solve it than the one suggested here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117155151	Thank you to the rapporteur. There will then be no further brief comments, so we will take the next rapporteur, Mrs Matthiesen, the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117155201	Thank you. When dealing with B 25, I can say that the Left is voting against the SF resolution, although we fully agree with the SF that it is very important for children to have a good start in life and that it is typically going to influence them for the rest of their lives. A great deal of research has actually pointed out recently that it is important to set in early and that all children get off to a good start in life and that they have a safe daily life and evolve through, among other things. play and learning. This is an important task in our day-to-day services, whether they are public or private. It is therefore also necessary that we have good care facilities and that there is quality in the things offered to our children. Against this background, of course, I am also pleased that I can emphasise once again that, in connection with the 2017 Finance Act, the government has set aside 580 million. kr. for a children's package. That money will then be used to strengthen the day-off area. It is a resolution that I am sure we will be discussing much more here in the Chamber. And it is a legislative package which I hope will also make a difference for educators, parents and children alike. However, the motion for a resolution tabled here by the SF, which we are debating today in the Chamber, I read as if SF would dictate that Christiansborg should demand that there should be educators in the private and outsourced day-to-day offers and that they should be subject to an agreement. In the Left, we have great respect for the fact that it is the social partners who agree wages and conditions of employment through joint agreements, and that is why I do not think it is very clever that we should begin to interfere in this model here on the part of Christiansborg, as the SF's proposal suggests. I simply do not see this as the right way to go. We are not going to sit here in Parliament and draw up agreements on behalf of a number of daily offers. There is no tradition of this here in Denmark. It is simply a matter for the social partners and therefore not something in which Christiansborg should interfere in this way. That is why we will not be voting in favour of the motion for a resolution which we are now debating in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117155435	Thank you to the rapporteur. I do not see anyone making brief remarks. The next speaker is Mr. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117155447	Thank you. I think that it is a very regrettable development that the area of day-care has been over the last 10-11 years in terms of ownership and in terms of the employment of teaching staff. After all, we have had private day-care institutions for the last 25 years well and well, because back in 1990 we introduced the pool scheme. It was then a relatively limited number of schemes, and they never really got any impact, but when we got the legislation back in 2005, which is also referred to in the SF's proposal, privatisation really started because it was possible to withdraw a surplus from the institutions. This has meant that over a decade we have seen a massive increase in the number of private institutions. We're up to something like 500-600. It is moving all the time, and we are in the Enhedslisten in general quite concerned that the developments we have seen, both in Sweden and in Norway, where large welfare groups are increasingly taking over publicly run institutions and pulling money out of them at the expense of quality, can be a development that is on the way here at home. So far, as far as staff pay and working conditions are concerned, I would like to say that a great many places have managed to deal with this in a way that is actually in order. There are very many private people who think that it is sensible to run an institution in such a way as to have proper conditions for the staff, a sensible recognition that if you have a satisfied staff, you have a wage policy that can attract skilled people, yes, then you can also run a proper day-care institution. So you can't cut everyone off when we discuss this issue. There are some who lead, even though they have not entered into agreements, and actually follow the terms of the agreements; there are some who cheat a little on the weight; and so there are some where it is a pure disaster because they grossly subjugate the employees and cheat them yes cheating? there is no agreement, but at least ensure that the persons concerned do not receive a pension. It's a really big problem. I would like to mention that it is not just the contractual relationships that are the problem. I think it makes sense that we are discussing this separately here, so I think it is an excellent proposal to put forward in this way, but when we talk about private institutions, it is not only by reducing pay and employment conditions, but it is also by pressing the norms that the institutions can make money, so we also have problems that go beyond what is the subject of our discussion today, and that means that the private institutions are not only pressing the conditions of their employees, but also helping to reduce the quality of their children. As others have pointed out in this debate, it is of course the children for whom we make daily offers, but it should be noted that pay and employment conditions and low standards are not only a matter of staff but also a matter of quality for children. This means that we agree in the Enhedslisten that proper pay and working conditions must be ensured. We agree with SF's intention in this proposal. I've taken note of that, sir. Jacob Mark's remark that there is probably a need to organise the proposal, because it is, as it appears here, a problem that it might appear that the Folketing will assume competence to determine matters which should rightly be determined by the social partners, but I sense that there is at least no disagreement between the Enhedslisten and the SF. If we jointly correct the proposal in such a way that it is about what is central, namely that there is a need for working clauses ensuring that there is at least equal pay and working conditions to what has been agreed in the most general agreements in this area, then I am sure that we have a common understanding and then we will be able to support the proposal in an amended version.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117155919	There is just one more brief comment. Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117155925	Thank you. I would like to ask the rapporteur some of the points that the rapporteur makes in his speech. The rapporteur says, among other things, that the rapporteur has heard that there are seriously underpaid private offers, and I would like to hear there: is there any evidence of this? So, does the rapporteur have any concrete figures on what we are talking about in number? And when the rapporteur says grossly underpaid, what is it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170117155956	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117155959	I myself have had the pleasure of standing outside Copenhagen daily institutions on some cold mornings at six o'clock with colleagues of the trade union, of which I myself am also still a member, because there were people in there who worked for much worse wages than their colleagues and who did not receive the pension they received. I don't have a precise overview of what it looks like. This is one of the problems in the absence of an agreement, namely that it is difficult to make up exactly what it looks like statistically, but I know from the large Copenhagen educational union, the LFS, that it is said that there are employees who have been paid DKK 30,000-40,000. lower annually and then lower pension schemes, perhaps even no pension for long periods of time. So yes, there is not a large nationwide statistics, but there is absolute evidence that it seems that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117160056	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117160058	I understand that it is on the basis of the experiences that the rapporteur himself has had that documentation. What I would also like to ask the rapporteur is: I have a feeling that, in general terms, Enhedslisten is perhaps just against private care. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20170117160120	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117160122	We prefer day-to-day offers to be run either by the public or as self-serving institutions. Back to the second point, I would like to stress that this is not a feeling. I have mentioned the concrete examples in Copenhagen. I am also in the situation that I have negotiated agreements with five or six large private umbrellas and have had the opportunity to see their pay statistics and to welcome the fact that those concerned, like the professional organisation, thought it sensible to put things right, so I also know this from many pay statistics on staff at private institutions. Indeed, where there is no collective agreement, there is a tendency for one to be less paid and to have worse pension conditions than colleagues in the area of collective bargaining.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117160210	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments to this rapporteur, so we will continue in the rapporteur's line. The next speaker is Mrs Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117160222	Thank you. Well, we are dealing here with a motion for a resolution from the SF which wants to oblige the government to ensure that all educational staff in outsourced day-care institutions and private institutions are subject to an agreement or at least contractual terms. As several speakers have said, this would be contrary to the Danish model, in which, as we know, the social partners agree on both terms and conditions of employment, and this is not, as some of the other parties believe, a model that the Liberal Alliance wants to change. However, I think it is more interesting to talk about the background to the specific proposal. Because, as I understand it, the SF is afraid that if there is no agreement or contractual terms, the contracted and private day care institutions will employ uneducated educators and staff. After all, I am the mother of two and have two children in day care institutions, but I do not really believe that you need to be a mother to know how important it is to have trained staff in the day care institutions. Actually, I don't think you need to feel as close to life as I personally do. For, of course, the trained educators can much more than untrained staff. They have a toolbox with a lot of educational tools in which is absolutely crucial for children's development at all possible levels in these first insanely important years. We do not disagree with the SF at all. Of course quality matters, of course it matters to have trained staff. That is why we in the Liberal Alliance are so concerned that there is free choice in this area; that parents who are, after all, the most concerned that there are the best conditions and the best conditions for their children have the opportunity to choose the offers to where they are interested. But it's not enough to have the opportunity. It is not enough for us to have free choice. Of course, we need to know what is being offered. That is why transparency, transparency, in this area is absolutely crucial. What is crucial is that you as a parent can choose between the offers; that there is transparency in relation to how many trained educators they have in each place. For then you have just as a parent the opportunity to choose and choose from. This is probably one of the things that I am very happy to see with the free market forces, namely that we as consumers can stifle those initiatives, those institutions that do not deliver a good product. You just can't use them. Then they die, then they close, and then they don't exist. However, the places where there is a high level of professionalism among staff, which is what parents want, are the ones they can use. So the Liberal Alliance completely shares the intention of high quality. We know, like the SF, that this is absolutely crucial for the well-being of children during the first few years. We know, as we also heard in the previous case, which we dealt with before, that it is absolutely crucial for children's chances in life, i.e. how they will get along later in life, that they will get off to a good start. So of course it is crucial, but we are also confident that those who are fighting this case the most are the parents, and they must have the opportunity to choose the right offers. That is why we are concerned about free choice, we are concerned about transparency. We would very much like to discuss this further with the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117160600	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Jacob Mark, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117160606	Thank you. It sounds good that we can discuss transparency in the future. I have two questions which have little to do with each other, but which relate to this matter. The first is about the agreements and why we are making them here. It is to ensure that you work under proper pay and working conditions regardless of whether you are employed in a private institution or in a municipal or self-governing institution. I would just like to know whether the rapporteur thinks it is reasonable that there should be employees in private institutions who earn up to DKK 100,000. less than in municipal institutions and who do not earn a pension because they work in a private institution. Does the rapporteur not think that something needs to be done about this? The second part is actually that I was quite pleased to hear the rapporteur talk about how important it is to have trained staff in the institutions wherever it is. I just want to know whether the rapporteur thinks that it makes sense in public or private institutions to make demands on the training of employees, so that we ensure that it is the educated people who are in the institutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117160705	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117160706	Thank you. Well, to answer the first question, do we have to do something about somebody making $100,000? less every year than their colleagues, it is not something we can easily understand that we want to do something about it, but there you have the free opportunities to organise yourself in the private and outsourced day care institutions. So you have the complete freedom to do that today. So, no, I do not think that, in relation to the trained staff, my point is that, as parents of the children who have to go there, we have the opportunity to press the private and also the contracted day care institutions to have more trained staff. We can vote with the feet. We can avoid using those places which only employ assistants and which do not have educationally trained staff. We can't use them. Then there will be a demand for it, and then they will be forced to do so, otherwise they will have to close.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117160811	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117160812	First of all, I know that there is such a general disagreement between the SF and the Liberal Alliance about how many demands we have to make in relation to what we spend our tax dollars on. I think we can allow ourselves, including the Folketing, to demand that when we spend tax dollars on something, there should be proper working conditions for example. the people who receive a salary. But it is such an ongoing disagreement that we have. The other part is this education thing. Does the rapporteur also believe that this should be done, for example? Is it a bad idea to demand that there should be 100 per cent trained staff in the public schools over the next few years? After all, it is a post that the Liberal Alliance has quite a lot of influence on today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117160847	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117160848	After all, I am not a specialist rapporteur in this area, but with regard to the day-to-day institution, we have a completely free choice today. This is the case in almost all municipalities. It's not the same in primary school. I know that from in here we have adopted free school elections, but there are very, very few municipalities where there is de facto a free school choice. That is why there are other obligations in the area of school than there are at present in the area of day-care. But there is no doubt that I want free choice and transparency in all areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117160924	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117160936	Thank you. I think there are excellent intentions behind this proposal. I didn't get sad at all when I read it. The simple question in the proposal is, of course, whether we in the Folketing should go in and legislate for private day-care institutions to establish an agreement. To that I would say that I am very, very careful to get involved in the Danish model with legislation. And I hope it can be solved by other means. If you look at the dimensions of it, you can see that from 2007 to 2014 the number of private institutions has increased from 243 to 512, while the number of children in private institutions has increased from approx. 7,000 to 18,500 in the same period. Many private institutions already have an agreement that covers and is adapted to the private area, but according to BUPL there were 75 private day institutions without agreement in February 2016. They're the ones we're talking about today. Some of them may pay more than the agreement in this area says, some of them keep the agreement, and others certainly pay far too little in wages. But now Mr. Jacob Mark already said that if he could, he would adjust this suggestion that it should be contract-like pay and working conditions. To this I would say that many municipalities today apply working clauses which require equal pay and working conditions in private companies, such as the United Kingdom. builds kindergartens or cleans up the schools of the municipality. That's something the alternative backs up on. The municipality of Copenhagen is now also working to introduce clauses in the area of children, which KL assesses is possible legally. In this way, it can be said that the ball is located with the individual municipality. This is a development which we would like to support in the alternative. It's hard to say how exactly to screw it together, but it's something that we think it might be interesting that SF or others went ahead with. And I would immediately recommend to my group that we look at it, i.e. whether we could not find out anything like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117161152	We thank the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next in line is Mrs Lotte Rod, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117161201	All children must have a good everyday life, whether they are in a public or in a private day offer. That is why I also have sympathy for what the SF is arguing here, namely that it matters how many trained educators there are and that there is a high quality. But perhaps it has happened a little quickly for the SF when the motion for a resolution was written here, and the SF also says today that it was actually a little something else you wanted to do. But just to make it absolutely clear: the Radical Left does not want to force anyone to be a member of a particular union. On the other hand, we would like to discuss how we can promote contractual relationships, and I therefore hope that the Minister will seize the opportunity for what the Social Democrat rapporteur also mentioned, namely to help municipalities find out what is really possible. I would think that was a good next step to take, and otherwise we still have in here, I think, to take a more thorough discussion on what are some educational and professional quality requirements we really want to make to our private institutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117161327	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then we have reached the Conservative People's Party. It's sir. Orla Østerby.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117161345	Thank you, President. This motion for a resolution deals with requirements for the award of contracts to private day-care institutions and the recruitment of teaching staff under contractual conditions. After all, the motion for a resolution means a debate, as other rapporteurs have said here, on the basis of negotiation between workers and employers in the free market. In 2016, BUPL estimated that 45 day institutions have not been covered by an agreement. They also believe that it exposes municipal self-serving day-care institutions and private institutions with agreement in an unfair competition. The thing is, the municipal council, among other things. for reasons of equality, the same requirements shall apply to contracted day-care institutions as they impose on the municipality's own institutions. This applies to standards, physical frameworks, requirements for educational background of the performing staff. Citizens have freedom of choice. It gives the freedom to choose. I estimate that parents today choose the institution they think is best for their children. Parents are very conscious today when choosing both school and institution. The Danish model, which is a division of labour between the Folketing, the authorities and the social partners, means that the parties conclude agreements between each other. After all, there is freedom of agreement between the parties and there is no obligation to conclude agreements. That is why, with this proposal, we are going to intervene in the Danish model. A legal requirement for companies to be subject to an agreement would be a breach of the traditions of the Danish labour market. The Conservative People's Party rejects the proposal with reference to the Danish model as well as the fact that the municipalities must make the same requirements for day offers, including for educational backgrounds for the performing staff, if there are similar requirements for the municipality's own institutions. So we do not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117161613	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, and that is Mr Seligman. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117161623	Thank you for that and thank you for a fine debate. It has been a pleasure to hear all the parties from right to left, from the Enhedslisten to the Liberal Alliance defending the Danish model, and in this way it can be seen that this somewhat sloppy motion for a resolution, where there should have been something else, can prove to be very good in the long run, because now I can always come back and say: Do you remember when you defended the Danish model? When we have made this resolution, it is because there will be more and more private day-care institutions. There are more than 500 private day care institutions today. For SF, whether it is in the area of children or in school, or in the field of construction, it is important that we ensure that the money and tax dollars we spend on wages go to people in jobs with proper working conditions. That is why, of course, it should have been stated in the motion for a resolution that, when we allow private day-care institutions to be set up, as well as allowing building to be built, we also demand that the authorisation be granted to projects and day-care institutions where there are proper pay and working conditions. When we present this motion for a resolution, it is because there were a number of articles and examples in the media that saw employees in private institutions who received up to DKK 100,000. less in salary and who did not receive a pension. When I say less in salary, it is compared to the municipal institutions. I think this is a problem, both because I do not think it is worthy of the individual who is doing a job for our children for tax dollars, but also because it is unfair competition. This is unfair competition, because when you spend less money on wages, you can hire more people. And then there is an unfair competitive situation with regard to the municipal institutions, where one of the major problems is that there are not enough staff. As far as the debate on education is concerned, I think our point was that it is often the case that trained staff cost more. That is why it will be an incentive. If you can just push your salaries down, there is also a danger of it being undocumented, I recognise that we are seeing a slippery path where you choose to hire untrained staff. Fortunately, I hear all the rapporteurs say this today is a development that we should not be working towards. Having said that, I think it has been a fine debate, because there is something to work on. I just need to find out what exactly we are going to do, whether it will be with an amendment or with a new resolution, or whether we suck up to get the Minister to convene a meeting where we can hopefully continue working on this, but I have certainly listened to three models. There is the good model that I have heard Enhedslisten back on: you ensure that private institutions have contractual relationships when they hire. I think that should be a requirement in all the situations, working conditions where we use tax dollars. I'm not sure we can get everyone on board. Then there is the light model, which I have heard from both the Social Democrats, Radicals and perhaps some other parties. Some kind of guidance is being provided, because the number of these private institutions is growing rapidly, and for many municipal politicians, who are not full-time politicians, this is a new area. Then I think it makes sense that we in here from the Folketing provide guidance on what we can demand. For my part, it can be both professional requirements as regards pay and working conditions. It's the light model that I think I'm going to pursue. Then there is the third, which is the classic when you want to comply with a proposal. That is to say that there must be more transparency. But it can also be quite fine. I heard that virtually everyone could help to ensure that there is greater transparency in pay and working conditions in private institutions. So there are different tracks we intend to continue working on to ensure that, whether you work in a municipal institution, a self-serving day-care institution or a private institution, you have proper pay and working conditions. It's important.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117162041	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are, for the time being, two who wanted to make brief comments. The first is Pernille Bendixen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117162046	Thank you. And once again, thank you to the SF for raising an important debate, although we just disagreed on the starting point. The rapporteur himself says that there will be more and more private day-care institutions, and that is because parents have priority in having their children in a private day-care institution. And there are very many of the private day care centres where there are no trained staff. Does the rapporteur recognise that there may be a difference in what SF priorities and what parents give priority to?
ParlaMint-DK_20170117162120	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117162122	First of all, I would like to say that there are still by far the most municipal institutions and self-governing institutions. Having said that, I actually think there are some parents who sit and have to choose between two things: on one hand they have an institution where there are a little more employees, but where they are uneducated, and on the other hand they have an institution where there are a little fewer employees, but where they are educated, and here parents choose a little more employees. And I think they do that because we are in a situation right now, when the municipal institutions are so pressured on their norms that it is actually very critical and that it is actually so critical that you do not see that there is enough time for the individual child. And that is also why SF is fighting and has fought for minimum standards in all Danish day institutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117162204	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117162205	But there are a lot of parents who consciously choose all that from, because too many teaching plans are made there are too many professional demands for their children, and they are tired of that. They want a place where their children can be at peace, if that is the case. Don't you realize that there are actually a lot of parents and the number is growing which doesn't actually want what the SF wants?
ParlaMint-DK_20170117162229	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117162230	Well, I think that by far the majority of parents actually want trained staff for their children... everything else would be strange. But if you ask me the second question, that is, the increasing demand for documentation and the increasing demand for tests and teaching plans, then I think the questioner is quite right in saying that it is the parents tired of it. And that is why, in the forthcoming debate with the new Minister for Children, we intend to say: let us now cut some of all that away, so that there will be time for the core task also in the self-serving and municipal institutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117162259	The next question is Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117162301	I would also like to thank the SF rapporteur for raising this important debate. I must also say that I recognise that in today's debate the SF's rapporteur says that perhaps there was a small typing error in the motion for a resolution. I have to say that I had prepared a few other questions for the rapporteur, in relation to whether or not the Danish model is supported. Now, instead of asking a few questions about what the rapporteur actually says in his speech, namely that the number of private day-off offers is increasing. Could this not be linked to the fact that what you are offering in those day-to-day services is actually very good and that parents have thus made a conscious choice to say that this is where their children should be?
ParlaMint-DK_20170117162357	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117162357-2	I think there are private schools doing a very good job, yes, I know that there are private institutions doing a very good job. I've just been out in an organic nursery, which is private, so I know that. However, I am still of the opinion that the main reasons for leaving the municipal institutions at the moment are: paragraph 1, that you do not see enough staff in the day institutions, therefore I believe that we should introduce minimum standards, and paragraph 2, as the Danish People's Party rapporteur said, that parents believe that there is too much focus on documentation, on teaching plans and on testing and too little focus on the core task. I believe that these are the reasons why we are leaving the municipal institutions, and these are some things that we would like to change. But that does not change the fact that we believe that in the private institutions there must be proper pay and working conditions, which is the primary purpose of this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117162444	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117162445	The question is whether, in some way, we should try to get more figures on the table in committee. Because there have also been various allegations in the Chamber today, which I personally think could be nice enough to get some proof of. The SF's rapporteur says, among other things, that the rapporteur believes that this is because there are significantly better standards in private offers compared to public ones, and that is perhaps a claim. In any case, I haven't really been able to find any documentation on those things. I just want to know if the rapporteur has found any figures that prove that there are significantly better standards in private offers.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117162526	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117162527	I do not have any evidence to show that there is much better regulation, but I have experienced those places, including the United Kingdom. The kindergarten I was in Lejre the other day. There they actually said that they have chosen to employ more people than they have in the municipal institutions, because they have that option. It is also in their financial framework. So I am actually quite convinced that if we ask for the figures, what I think we should do, they will show that this is an opportunity that private daycare institutions use. And then I even think it would be very interesting to also look at what education qualifications these people have. In fact, I think it is a rather relevant debate to discuss in the area of day-care, too, what we make of training requirements for staff.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117162605	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked to speak, and that concludes the debate. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and the Internal Market. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117162628	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 19 January 2017. The rapporteur for the questioners, Karina Adsbøl, Dansk Folkeparti, for a explanatory statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117162658	Thank you for that, President. The Danish People's Party has once again chosen to call a query debate on the Children's Reform and the implementation of this by the municipalities, as it is important to continue to focus on the area. The last time we had a query debate on the implementation of the Children's Reform was in 2014, when the then minister sent a shepherd's letter to the municipalities at our request, stating that children should be heard and that vulnerable families and children should be helped. The shepherd letter also sent out annexes to the municipalities on the experience of the Ministry's task force in the field of children. The task force had found a number of problems, which were repeated in a number of municipalities. In general, the task force thus identified the following issues: missing or deficient child studies, absence of children's conversations, general involvement of the child, lack of or lack of action plans, non-compliance with deadlines and insufficient response to serious notifications. However, experience from the task force also underlined that there is no simple solution to these challenges. In general, it was recommended to the municipalities to focus on prioritising professional management in the field of case management, to ensure a management follow-up on the concrete legal and social quality of the case, that the case workers have the necessary social and legal competences, to follow-up on the individual cases as part of the person-oriented supervision, that there are clear workflows, that there is a focus on the implementation of legislation and policies, to ensure that work is done on a common social professional basis based on common academic methods and systematiques, and that there is an appropriate practice in the field of record keeping. The state auditors have also presented a report in August 2016 on the action against children placed in care. There is criticism of the municipalities' handling of cases of children placed in care. According to the state auditors, the country's municipalities often do not comply with the law when they choose to remove children from their parents. It is, for example, the mandatory talks with children and the preparation of action plans that are being downgraded. The legislation we have put in place must ensure that the municipalities carry out the necessary studies, draw up action plans and carry out talks with the children and relatives. The fact is that we can make very good legislation on a national political level, but if it is not implemented and implemented in the municipalities, it is not worth much. Over the years, we have had many consultations and questions debates in which the current minister has been asked to correct errors and shortcomings in the system. On the basis of the report of the auditors of the state, we have to note that our struggle to improve conditions for children and young people in care is far from over. I look forward to today's debate, and I am sure that, regardless of political standing, this is an important area which we can all agree that we must continue to work to improve and which we must continue to focus on politically. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117163018	We thank the rapporteur. We shall now proceed to the answer, and it is the Minister for Children and Social Affairs who will have the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117163035	Thank you for the floor. I would say that I have been very much looking forward to the debate. This is an extremely important issue and I think it is an issue of concern to all the rapporteurs. I have been asked to explain whether the municipalities comply with the intentions and legislation of the Children's Reform and what I am going to do with municipalities that do not comply with the reform. I would like to start by stressing, both as new Minister for Children and Social Affairs, but also as a former member of the municipal council, that it is my belief that the tasks in the social field are best carried out by the municipalities. It is the municipalities that are closest to the citizens, and therefore they also have the best conditions to choose exactly the efforts that best meet the needs of the individual child and the individual family. I have a fundamental confidence that the municipalities want to make it best for vulnerable children and young people. Having said that, we know that there are municipalities which continue to have problems in complying with the rules in this area, and that is of course totally unacceptable, because the municipalities must be above all discussion, and this, of course, also applies to the changes introduced by the child's reform. If, in a specific case, a municipality fails to fulfil its obligations to a child, the Ankestyrelsen has the opportunity to intervene. Anyone who finds that a municipality does not provide a child with the support he or she needs can contact the Ankestyrelsen, who, on his or her own initiative, can go into a case and decide on support for a child. In addition, the municipalities of the country are also subject to the municipal supervision of the State administration. The supervisory authority may, where necessary, impose penalties in the case of unlawful municipal decisions, including periodic penalty payments on the responsible municipal councillors. We all know, too, that the challenges posed by local authorities in this area are not new. Unfortunately, this is a well-known problem and something that we in the Danish Parliament have done a great deal to solve, but it is not done with a snap. That is why, across the middle, across the parties over recent years, we have also carried out a series of major reforms on vulnerable children and young people, which focus on the quality of the case, in order to make an earlier and more systematic effort. With the Children's Reform from 2011, we got among other things. a thick line underneath that the child's best must always be at the centre of the help and support that the municipalities put in place. With the 2013 abuse package, we made a massive effort to strengthen the prevention and management of child abuse. Among other things, we did. by tightening up legislation on the handling of notifications by municipalities and by tightening up the requirements to consult the child in the event of suspected abuse. We also set up children's houses that help to deal with a child exposed to abuse, so that the child is guaranteed a professional and multidisciplinary effort. With the 2014 prevention package, we agreed to support early preventive work in the municipalities. The aim is to support that vulnerable children and families receive the right help before the problems develop and become more serious. We did so by clarifying in the law that the municipalities have a clear obligation to take action early. At the same time, we established close cooperation with a number of municipalities to provide more knowledge on how municipalities can convert to better preventive action. Finally, with the 2014 supervisory reform, we established five supervisory units in the social field, and their ongoing supervision must ensure a higher quality at the placement sites, and a whistleblower function, so that children and employees can call if they experience critical conditions at a location. In these reforms, a number of measures have also been taken to support the implementation of the rules by the municipalities, among others. from the Children's Reform. This applies, among other things, to: the establishment of the special task force in the field of children, which thus carries out development programmes in municipalities that have challenges with the case management process, and we have established a municipal management network that supports a closer sparring across municipalities. In addition, funding is provided for a massive continuing training effort targeted case managers and managers in the child field in the form of a diploma, a master's degree programme and a catalogue of individual courses. And last year the first notification statistics were published, which allows the municipalities to follow the way in which notifications are handled. We have therefore put in place a number of sensible initiatives which I have great faith in and which must also have time to work. I am basically of the opinion that everyone who works in this area wants to do good for the children and their families that we are here to help. And when I talk to people who work with the area, I believe that the municipalities are also concerned about improving quality. It is also my clear impression that the reforms have contributed to an increased focus on the area of the municipalities and thus also generally a better response to the children, and that the municipalities are generally more advanced here in 2017 than they were just a few years ago. I think this is a positive development, which is also in line with the intentions of the child's reform. We must maintain the development that is under way and, as I see it, we must, from a central point of view, be better at supporting municipalities in implementing new rules and reforms. At the same time, we need to have a greater focus on measuring the impact of the social efforts we are putting into effect. I also know that the parties of the Folketing are concerned about this, most recently with the negotiations on the stake pool agreement here for 2017. In particular, this measure of the impact of the social efforts we put in place was also one of the points that the Reichsaudit pointed out in their report on the area back in August 2016. I would like to stress that is a criticism which I take very seriously, and that is something I would like to take the lead in correcting as a new minister in this area. However, I also think that the criticism of the Reichsaudit gives reason to reflect on whether we have been too eager in recent years to implement new reforms and new legislation, and whether we in the Folketing have been good enough to ensure that the reforms had the desired effect before a new wave of rules was set in motion. I have no doubt that these have been necessary and important reforms, but we must also note that this has been a challenge for the municipalities too, perhaps more than we in the Danish Parliament had foreseen to implement the many major reforms that we have carried out in a short time. Because it takes time to translate legal rules into radical changes right into the extreme, where social workers sit with the family and have to make important decisions for the child. That is why I would also like to take the lead in ensuring a much better and closer follow-up of local authorities' practices when we put new reforms and legislative changes in place. I believe that improvements in this area require that we continue to focus on strengthening the impact of social efforts, because if we get more knowledge of what actually works, we also have a much better basis for bringing about change for those who need help. This requires, in the first place, the development of a solid data and knowledge base, which is a necessary foundation for the work of the municipalities, and at the same time the municipalities must be supported in measuring the impact of their work, and knowledge of effective interventions must be disseminated to municipalities and social services. And we're already at work. During the 2017 stake pool negotiations, which I mentioned just now, it was just agreed to invest massively in the development and dissemination of effective methods and promising social practices, and I look forward very much to the negotiations we are going to have in the pool circle, on the framework for children, which was also agreed at the stake pool negotiations. And I hope that there will be support for spending the money on developing and testing solid and effective methods for vulnerable children. In the new government we will continue to work on the ten objectives of social mobility to ensure that we are moving in the right direction. So to sum up: No, I certainly do not think that we are in the target either in relation to the implementation of the child's reform or in relation to the social area in general. However, if we stick to the tracks we have put together and if we keep the focus on the impact of the interventions, I am optimistic about the future. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117163839	Thank you to the Minister for Children and Social Affairs. We shall now proceed to the debate and the author of the questions, Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party, will be allowed to start. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117163853	Thank you for that and thank you for the Minister's speech. It is quite true that we have focused on what is for the child's good and on the child's best interests. We've been focusing on that. But you can sometimes ask that question when it is others who judge what is best for the child, whether they forget the child in the middle of the process. It's really good that we have the task force. The challenge may then be that it is voluntary for the municipalities to accept assistance from the task force. I have a former colleague who has just raised the issue in the city council, and it was certainly not decided to remove the task force. So there must also be a political majority in favour of it. There, of course, we could consider whether we should somehow make it compulsory to send out the task force in those cases and in those media cases where we consider it necessary. With regard to the many rules that we have also adopted here in the Danish Parliament, we also recognise from the Danish People's Party that there is of course also pressure to keep up. However, we must remember that the reform of the child is a follow-up to the 2006 election reform, and there are also some things that are going on. I think we could have made a great deal of progress if the child's reform had been fully implemented in the municipalities and if they complied with the legislation in force. Several studies have unfortunately shown that too many mistakes are being made in this area. There are also several young people who have appeared in the media and have said that the system has failed. That is why I am also pleased with all the reform initiatives we have taken, including the notification register, which the Minister mentioned. It was also the Danish People's Party that made that request after we had asked Karen Hækkerup, where it was found that there was no overview of the notifications at all. The concern was that you could miss a notification, among other things. in connection with the social worker's vacation. In addition, we think it is very good that we are now obliged to react within 24 hours and that this also applies to children's houses. In relation to the Danish National Audit Office's criticism, it is not just a criticism of the municipalities. It also points to the Ministry. There has been a massive criticism here, because the National Audit Office has found it problematic that the municipalities have not been adequately supported in achieving their objectives. At the same time, the lack of evidence of non-compliance has been criticised. I think that the Service Act contains some very good paragraphs, and that is what we hear, both when we talk to professionals, but also with the citizens to whom it relates, including section 11 of the Service Act, which in 2014 was changed to be a prevention clause, so that today it clarifies the municipalities' commitment to early preventive action. The clause provides, among other things, for: the possibility for municipalities to offer preventive measures in the form of family-oriented interventions as well as participation in network and conversation groups with peers with similar problems. In order to apply the prevention clause, it is not necessary to draw up a children's study under Section 50 of the Act or a plan of action under Section 140 of the Service Act. The preventive measures can be carried out with a subsequent section 50 study. We know a lot of things in this area. We know that children of parents who have been placed in their own homes are significantly more likely to be placed outside the home than others during their first six years of life. Of course, we need that knowledge to prevent it. We also know that there is less breakdown in the placements in network care than in other placements. Section 46 of the Services Act states that there must be a systematic involvement of family and network when a child is in difficulty in order to assess a child's possible need for support under the Services Act. That's really good. We have also heard about tools that work: family rotting, network meetings, etc. They have a really good effect. We also know that the relationship between the children placed and their families is important to all parties. The child's reform and legislative changes had the overall objective of supporting vulnerable children and young people's opportunities to thrive and develop their personal and professional skills. In addition, the Children's Reform should focus on strengthening children and young people in the necessary preparation for an adult life. There were a number of changes to promote security in upbringing. With regard to children placed outside the home, the municipalities must make a plan before the young person reaches 18 years of age, and they must do so six months before that date. That is why we also believe it is important that we ensure that the young person is properly taken care of, including whether there is a need for protection. The young person may have a desire to do so. Something that I also think we should discuss in relation to the whole debate here is the whole area of the foster family. There are a number of challenges in this area where the child often ends up hostage in these cases. Unfortunately, we have been asked that, when consideration is to be negotiated in the municipality, it is the child who ends up as a hostage to the problem of remuneration. This is something on which I think we should also have a discussion. I look forward to today's debate and I also have a proposal for adoption which I will read out. It is on behalf of the government parties, the Social Democratic Party, the Radical Left and the Danish People's Party: Proposals for adoption • Vulnerable children, young people and their families must be helped. The Danish Parliament has adopted major reforms and legislative changes in the last 10 years to support this effort. The Danish Parliament notes that there are still challenges with the implementation of legislation by the municipalities in this area, including from the Children's Reform. Vulnerable children, young people and their families must have the assistance to which they are entitled under the law and must be able to choose their own assistance. The Folketing therefore urges the government to follow up more closely the implementation of new reforms in the municipalities in the future, including ensuring that the legislation in force is complied with and that the municipalities fulfil their advisory responsibilities, including to use the tools and sanctions available in the future to municipalities that do not comply with and comply with the legislation. The Danish Parliament also calls on the government to work to ensure that municipalities can base their work more on knowledge of impact, so that efforts are made towards vulnerable children, young people and their families. • V 23). Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117164549	Thank you. The proposal for adoption is part of the negotiations. Then we move on in the line of rapporteurs, and the next one is Mr. Troels Ravn, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117164614	Thank you. First of all, thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising this question. Of course, this is a very, very important area and issue that we are discussing today, namely vulnerable children and young people and their rights. At the turn of the year, it was exactly six years since the child's reform came into force. With the child's reform, there was a serious focus on the legal certainty and best interests of the individual child. The reform should include: ensure continuity of placement, ensure stable and close adult contact and a better framework for municipal action, including increased and improved cooperation between authorities and administrations. In addition, there should be a focus on an earlier preventive action. The problems had to be dealt with before they grew big, and the children had to be given the right help in time. Since the introduction of the child's reform, efforts have been further strengthened. The rules on state reimbursement have been changed, so especially small and poor municipalities are not entirely alone in the cost of placing very large children's flocks. And in 2013, the package of attacks came in order to prevent abuse and to ensure stronger action for the children and young people who have been subjected to abuse. A supervisory reform has been carried out to ensure better supervision of places of residence for, inter alia: children and young people, so that it is no longer the municipalities themselves that supervise their own offers. It is all efforts to help children and young people get the help they need and that the system does not fail when parents and others who should otherwise give the right care fail. But what is the state of affairs here six years after the child's reform came into force? That is what we are discussing today. Unfortunately, the situation is that things are not going well enough, because there are still too many problems. Some municipalities are doing very well, and it is important to say that the municipalities have adopted the aims and regulations of the law. Others, therefore, are far from the goal, and we must be honest and say that the children suffer. The Social Protection Agency's 2015 evaluation of the Children's Reform shows that in some areas progress is being made, but also that far from all municipalities comply with their supervisory obligations. This, together with other decisions on cases in the Ankestyrelsen, which show that there are still errors in many cases with children and young people, reminds us that the work is far from complete. We still need to follow up. More and better efforts are still needed to ensure that children and vulnerable families receive the help they are entitled to. The evaluation shows that there are still municipalities out there which, despite the knowledge of the increased notification obligation, are not good enough to follow up notifications, that in some municipalities there is a huge challenge to ensure coordination between the recipient unit and the other administration, and that cooperation with other professionals in many places lags behind. It's all very damaging to the people it's all about. There are still children who don't get the help they need early enough. There are still children who are not involved in their own affairs. And there are still children and families who do not receive the effort that we know works because important information is not passed on or not governed quickly enough. It is a waste of both human and social resources when we do not do it well enough. We know what works, but we need to be much better at actually doing what works. Instead of making scattered and sometimes almost random interventions, at best indifferent and at worst directly harmful interventions, we must ensure that the municipalities apply the knowledge they have about what works. We owe it to each family and every child that they get the right help and, of course, that they live up to the law, but also that it works. Therefore, the municipalities need to fulfil their responsibilities to a greater extent. It is our responsibility as politicians to ensure that the intentions of the legislation being implemented also become reality in the municipalities; that the intentions of better progress, early efforts and involvement also become reality for the families of children that are all about. That is why I am pleased that the Danish People's Party has once again raised a question on this subject, because there is a need for stricter follow-up. There is a need for the government to follow up on the legislation of a broad majority in the Folketing. It is necessary for the government to take responsibility for the municipalities to follow the legislation that has been made and to comply with the intentions behind the Children's Reform, not least by using the tools and sanctions available to the municipalities in the future. With those words, I would like to thank you for the floor, and I would also like to stress that the Social Democrats are behind the proposal for adoption which the previous rapporteur read out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117165141	Thank you. There is one brief comment, and it is from Mrs Karin Nødgaard, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117165147	Thank you. It is very good that the Social Democrats also support this debate. Now it is the case that a few years ago the Danish People's Party had a motion for a resolution on increased accountability of municipalities in cases where there was failure and in cases of abuse and neglect of children. At that time, the Social Democratic Party also said that it was not far enough and that something had to be done. Now we stand here a few years later, and then the Social Democrat rapporteur says the same thing and goes on to say that more stringent legislation is needed. So what do we really have to do to make sure that we get ahead of ourselves so that we don't stand here again in two years' time and see that there are several failures in these children's cases?
ParlaMint-DK_20170117165231	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117165232	I believe that it is very important, as is also stated in the proposal for adoption, which the Social Democrats support and have been about, that we ask the government in the future to recommend to the municipalities that they use the tools and sanctions that are available, or rather that the government undertakes to use the sanctions that are available to the municipalities that do not meet the responsibilities that we can rightly expect from the municipalities in this area. So I fully agree that what we need to do is to increase the accountability of the municipalities where it lags. At the same time, as I mentioned in my speech, it is important to say that there are very many municipalities that are doing well. We must be able to separate things, and where there is then a problem where we do not meet our responsibilities, where children and young people and parents are caught up, we must be much better and much more targeted in terms of using the tools and sanctions that actually exist in existing legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117165336	The questioner? No. So there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Carl Holst, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117165353	I would also like, on behalf of the Left, to express praise and support for the Danish People's Party for raising the debate. The Left can also support the proposal for adoption which was read out by the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. Both the Minister and others have given us an impression of what it is to work that has been going on from 2006 on what can be done to ensure that children who for various reasons have difficulty in life receive the best help. The common thread of all initiatives, the child's reform, the abuse package, the prevention package, the supervisory reform, to name but some of them, has been that the child must be at the heart. We are not going to talk it down on a day like today and have a wrong perception of everything that has been done across changing governments and broadly based in the Folketing. That is why I can say to the Social Democrat rapporteur, with a glimpse in my eye, that it is the responsibility of the minister in office at all times to follow up the law across changing governments. But we welcome the current minister with the few months she has been here and we welcome her having a look at it. But the point is that we should not talk it down, because there are plenty of elements that have improved: the children's house evaluation, to mention just one, the 24-hour rule on reporting, to mention something else. But helping to put the child at the centre is precisely the fact that we listen to the child, and it lags behind the child's wishes and the child's sense of legal certainty. For a child, it may be manifested by a desire to be heard. From this point of view, it lags slightly behind in terms of aid and involvements, the evaluation shows. We need to take this seriously too. I hope that will be the result in the future, and the Minister makes such an excellent statement that she will follow it closely and on the basis of the intentions we have here in the Folketing. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117165637	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in line is Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117165654	I would like to start by thanking the Danish People's Party for taking up again the child's reform. I think it is nice that you have a persistent agenda in that area. It is almost like a clockwork that we are having this discussion, and unfortunately it is necessary. So praise to you for holding on to it. This provides a good opportunity to follow up and, unfortunately, as I said, it is necessary. When we look at what has happened since we were here discussing the child's reform last time, we see that the ceiling on cash benefits and other reforms have gone through and have hit vulnerable families hard. In the Enhedslisten, we fear that some of the families who have previously made it will be under pressure. We know that this could result in more children being placed outside the home. There are therefore several vulnerable families living in poverty, combined with the fact that the municipalities' economy is limited by very low public growth, which really means cuts. It is a recipe that can really only go wrong when we look at the children. We fear that the social workers will be burdened by more cases and fewer colleagues and that fewer families will receive the help in time to avoid placement. It is incredibly important that exposed children do not get caught and it is incredibly important that we try to avoid placement as much as we can, simply by preventive work. Unfortunately, this is not always possible. I think it is an important discussion we have about the implementation of the child's reform, among other things. because we are talking about how we can strengthen the legal position of children in order also to strengthen their situation in general. To put it mildly, things could go better, as some have said from the platform. Yes, there are things that are moving forward, fortunately, but there are also things that we could do much, much better. The right of children and young people to be heard must be given priority. We must ensure that the placements are based on the child's best interests, which were the intention of the child's reform. We must ensure that the mandatory conversations are not just held, and then you check off in your documentation claim form that the conversation is now held. In fact, we must also have social workers who are able to involve and listen to children and let their opinions and views be weighted in the decisions. It is important to emphasise that all children are entitled to a sitter. Unfortunately, it is not always implemented as we had thought, because it is so important that every child has his or her own voice in his or her own case when it comes to the child's future. Therefore, they must have a person who always speaks for them not for the municipality, the foster family or the biological parents, but for them. Then we also think that some of what it is important to look at is cuts in the Ankestyrelsen. This has also led to a reduction in legal certainty, with fewer resources for the processing of cases and a weakening of the control of municipalities. If we are to do something good for the children, we must ensure that the Ankestyrelsen has sufficient funds to deal with complaints. We must continue our efforts with the Children's Phone and the Children's Terms of Service. And then we have to give the case workers fewer cases and more time to work interdisciplinaryly, as the social workers have pointed out many times. But preventive work is the best we can do for children. So stability in life and security in the family are really, really important, even if there may be problems in the family. We may have a tendency in here to divide it up very black and white: here are some social problems, here there are problems with alcohol to some extent, vupti, it must lead to a placement. In fact, the best thing we can do for children is to try to help the family try to solve the problems before they grow so large that placement becomes necessary. However, preventive work is lagging behind, and this requires us to have the courage to invest. One thing we are very concerned about is that networking, forced adoption and even the Herning model, which should really mean that we are investing more in preventive work, is in fact being used gradually not to do the best for children, but as an excuse for being able to cut back on the area because the municipalities' finances are too pressured. That is why I will end with the point that I started with. I would like to quote Bettina Post, who said at one point that social work will never be better than what it has to do. That is why I also hope that all the parties that talk about sanctions against the municipalities and which have to make agreements between the government and the municipalities on the economy of the municipalities in the future will remember that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117170228	There is a brief comment and it is from Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117170234	Thank you to the rapporteur and thank you for the praise. We like that in the Danish People's Party. I just want to know whether the rapporteur does not agree that it is not only children from families where there are not so many funds that can have challenges in terms of being able to risk being placed outside the home. They are also children who come from well-off families. In relation to what the rapporteur said about the Ankestyrelsen, I remember that the previous government, which you supported in the Enhedslisten, laid down the social boards, so I should just like to hear what Enhedslisten had to say about the legal certainty of the abolition of the social boards, because I do not remember that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117170327	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117170327-2	On the first question, that is quite right. There can also be really big problems in families that have a completely solid economy. Unfortunately, there is a tendency for some of the families to have a difficult economy that is also accompanied by a lot of social problems. Poverty, when it hits, doesn't just hit the wallet. Unfortunately, it has a lot of consequences for those children who grow up in poverty in relation to social heritage and educational opportunities; less opportunities to get jobs if their parents do not have, and the same goes for social problems in the family, which can make it really difficult to keep together. These are some of the consequences if families are to live in poverty. I would very much like to discuss the social boards at some point. It is not everything about the actions supported by Enhedslisten back then that have ended equally well. We have been there and try to take responsibility for that up to several times.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117170435	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117170437	If the rapporteur now says that more children will be placed because of the cash aid reform, does the rapporteur think that because you do not have so much money in your day-to-day life, you are not able to give care and love to your child? I guess it's not about how much money you have in your family, what kind of job you have, whether you're a cash recipient or whether you're a director. I guess it's also about how you can give the care and the love that a child needs. It was because the rapporteur said in his speech that the rapporteur felt that with the reform of cash benefits more children would also be removed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117170520	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117170520-2	Frankly, I think that this is unnecessary polemical. Of course, people with low incomes can be really, really good parents, sometimes better, I guess. I never said anything else. However, the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party must realise, and it may well be that it hurts for the Danish People's Party to adopt the cash aid ceiling when you hear about the consequences, that it is a completely indispensable fact, is that economic poverty is thus helping to create some social problems and exacerbate a situation for very many vulnerable families. This is not a reproach to the families, I would like to emphasise that. It is a reproach against the majority in this House at Christiansborg who has adopted the cash aid reform. I might as well be honest with you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117170613	Thank you. And we stay in the line of questions with the Danish People's Party. It's Mrs. Pernille Bendixen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117170619	Thank you very much. The rapporteur spoke a little about the parties that are in favour of sanctions, understood that the Enhedslisten does not do so, I assume. And with that I would like to ask Mrs Pernille Skipper: when you do not want to take part in sanctions, and that is the case, fair enough, could you go into something called a forced task force in the municipalities where there are still problems when they do not want to go down that road voluntarily?
ParlaMint-DK_20170117170647	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117170648	It is true that we think that financial sanctions against the municipalities help to create more of the problems that are out there, because it has a lot to do with a pressured economy and all sorts of other things, but also a pressured economy in the municipalities, whether you have proper procedures. I think it's really exciting to talk about a forced task force. One of the things we have proposed many times is that a national task force should be set up for the quite heavy cases, that is, some of the cases we have seen that have been really scandalous: the Brønderslevsgaden, the Tøndersgaden, in other words, where it is simply so violent that the municipality's case officers cannot understand the situation or at least not get done enough. So we think this is a really exciting proposal. I would like to take part in this discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117170739	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117170741	So let's discuss it sometime. In relation to local authorities, which have some really rough cases, and we all know about them, we also have to admit that a long time has passed now, haven't we? I mean, it's been six years since the Children's Reform, and of course reform takes time, but in all the time that goes by, it's like the children who are the losers in it until we implement these reforms. Couldn't there be something right in saying: Now you've had this time, now we're turning on, now it's now; this is a shell task, it's not a will task?
ParlaMint-DK_20170117170816	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117170817	I would very much like to add a few more adjectives to what we say to the municipalities, i.e. screw up or whatever else we have. It's a great idea. I don't think it should be "can" either; I think it should be "should." There are a great many things we can do to ensure that children's rights are adequately met. But I do not believe that it does anything other than make the spiral go down even more sharply if you start imposing financial sanctions on the municipalities, when we know that so many of the problems we see not only in the area of children, but also for our older fellow citizens and the public schools are the result of an extremely pressured municipal economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117170901	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. The rapporteur has a proposal for adoption which should be included here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117170910	Thank you very much, and I'm sorry. I am reading on behalf of Enhedslisten, Alternativet og SF: Suggestions for adoption The Danish Parliament has over the last 10 years adopted major reforms and legislative changes to support efforts for vulnerable children and young people. The Danish Parliament notes that there are still challenges with the implementation of legislation by the municipalities in this area, including from the Children's Reform. Vulnerable children and young people and their families must have the help they need and are entitled to under the law, and they must be able to choose their own way. Parliament therefore calls on the government to follow up better on the implementation of new reforms in the municipalities, including ensuring that legislation is complied with and that the municipalities fulfil the advisory responsibility, involve the children more closely and make use of protection against previously placed young people. The Danish Parliament urges the government to work to ensure that the municipalities can develop a strong professionalism about their work to improve their efforts towards vulnerable children and young people and that the municipalities have a financial framework that can support good work. • V 24).
ParlaMint-DK_20170117171009	Thank you. This proposal is also included in the further negotiations. Then the next rapporteur is Mrs Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117171018	Thank you. Thank you to DF for raising this really important debate. After all, the child's reform is a very good reform. It has existed for six years, but when we look at implementation, we all agree that it is not good enough. There are municipalities working very well with the intentions of the reform, but far too many mistakes are still being made, too many children fall through the safety net. I fully agree with the Minister that tasks in the social field are best carried out as close as possible to the citizens. Last year we were with the Social Committee on a study trip around Jutland, and there we were among others. in the municipality of Tønder. There I tried to test my own position by asking the mayor if he thought it might be an idea to remove the children's cases from the municipality and place them somewhere central, where you were sure you had the specialist staff, so you were sure that this was handled by people who had experience in the area. But he confirmed my view that it is important that it is as close to the citizens as possible, by trying to explain how complex these issues in these families are, and that is why it is so crucial that you are close to the citizens that you know the whole family and that you can offer this very holistic effort, which is what we believe in works. But what is the solution, then, to the fact that we are constantly seeing that the municipalities are not complying with the law? We have the Ankestyrelsen, we have supervision, and we can sanction through periodic penalty payments, but it's as if it's not enough. So, there are Odense, Rebild, Slagelse, Tønder, Brønderslev municipalities, there are very many municipalities where we hear that they choose to overhear or at least do not respond to serious reports about children who are miserable. It's just really, really hard to understand from in here what's going on, and even though we've been out talking to them, even though we're trying to get close, even though we're dragging experts into telling us about the possibilities of sanctioning, it's just like we're all in a locked situation where we just don't understand what's going on. We have never spent as much money in the public sector in Denmark as we are doing at the moment. We have the best welfare society in the world. We all, when we're abroad, pride ourselves on our welfare community at home, how we have an established safety net, so no one falls through. But time and time again, in the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and the Working Environment, we find that there are children, innocent people who fall through and we feel powerless in some way. That is why it is really, really good and important that we raise these debates. It is important that we try to focus more on what we can do to fine-tune the safety net that we want to be there even more. At least we must be able to ensure that children who are in the unfortunate situation of being abandoned by their parents are not abandoned by the public authorities. In his speech, the Minister reflected a little bit about whether we have implemented too many reforms, that there has been too much new legislation in recent years, and it is quite true that we have introduced a lot of new legislation in this area. There have been the child's reform, the abuse package, the prevention package, the task force, supervisory reform to name a few of them, but that is precisely because we have had a focus on this area, it is precisely because it is so important that we get this area under control and we have seen too many unhappy cases. Last year, yes, it is now really the last year that we also put aside money from the pool to spread the Herning model, and that is also because we believe that if the social workers, the case workers, have fewer cases per case. child, there are also fewer mistakes. After all, these are initiatives that we are all trying to launch because we are trying to tackle these issues, and we must continue to focus on that. We in the Liberal Alliance would also like to look at economic sanctions, but in general we are interested in following this area closely, which is why, of course, we can also endorse the text proposed by the DF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117171451	We thank the rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117171512	Thank you. We'd like to join the chorus that praises DF for this initiative to revisit the subject. I hope we will not be here in five years' time again. I hope that we will soon enter a solution phase without standing here with a quick fix. When you meet this as relatively new in the Folketing, you see that it has a very, very long history and a very, very complex problem with a lot of different conditions. And it's worth it for me to be able to listen to experienced colleagues with a lot of experience in terms of how this has evolved over the years. So that's why it has a value in itself to me. What we are discussing here today is, of course, a statement on whether the municipalities comply with the intentions of the Children's Reform and, subsequently, what should happen to the municipalities that fail to comply with the reform. The first part of this seems to be quite broad agreement that the status which has already been described here from the platform is not acceptable. What we are talking about here has been a theme for many years. Already in 2006, the Danish Parliament adopted the emplacement reform, and since then the reform of the child, which we are talking about today in particular. The aim has been, and continues to be, a better response to vulnerable children, including children placed outside the home and children who have been subjected to failure and abuse. Well, at least for 10 years, there's been a focus on giving these kids better conditions for a better life. And, of course, we are indignant and saddened to see again that we, as a society, have not yet fulfilled that task satisfactorily. So my heartfelt hope for today's inquiry debate must be that it leads to something that we are seriously pushing something that actually makes a difference for these kids. Today's debate will perhaps be about who is responsible and who is the minister to hold his ears. In my book there is no doubt that that responsibility is shared. The municipalities have not been capable enough, but various governments and social rapporteurs in here must also rightly assess whether their support has lived up to their ambitions. I have absolutely no interest in releasing the municipalities from that part of the responsibility that is theirs, because in the end it is indisputable that some municipalities at least deserve a song. But I also believe that there is a responsibility on our part to ensure proper support for the municipalities in terms of their ability to carry out the task. I am thinking here, for example. Whether we can continue to criticise the municipalities for setting foolish and unacceptable priorities, or rather under-priority, while at the same time running a hard-core economic management of them, where we ask them on an annual basis to streamline and reduce. There is no doubt in my optics that from here we should be much more supportive of investment in several case managers. We know that works and we know that the opposite has consequences. Therefore, the Herning model is also one of the things the Alternative really likes. In supporting a proposal for adoption today, I would also like to emphasise that there is a much greater focus on the post-protection, which is also a priority in the child's reform. Here I can welcome the fact that the Minister has previously flirted a little with the idea of making protection for vulnerable young people a legal requirement, and that is something we could work on if the Minister continues to think about it. So I hope that the Minister will have both close cooperation with the municipalities to ensure the implementation of these reforms, and also be very thorough and certainly in that follow-up, without necessarily believing that financial sanctions are what they need most. At the same time, I also hope that we in this House will give priority to supporting the municipalities in this effort, and that we will at least ensure that the municipalities have the resources and skills to meet the ambitions we all have in this area and to ensure good action for the vulnerable young people. Well, at least it's about time. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117171856	There is one brief comment from Mrs Pernille Bendixen, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117171902	Thank you very much. And thank you for mentioning this thing with the after-guard, I think we all think that's really important and a really good thing. I think we can agree on that too. Where we then do not agree is in relation to the sanctions. After all, the rapporteur himself used some of his speaking time to say how long it has been and that it lags a lot out there, we can agree on that. When we have municipalities that actually come all the way out where they commit direct illegalities in their case, is it so fair that you just say okay, that was unfortunate, and then you fire a director, and then we're all like the rest of us? Should we not, as legislators, say that this is not right, it is being sanctioned?
ParlaMint-DK_20170117171947	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117171949	One of the ideas we heard from Mrs Karina Adsbøl was this with a more powerful and mandatory task force. I hadn't seen that myself, I hadn't heard that before, but the idea seems good to me. That is the kind of thing we would like to be involved in discussing in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117172007	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117172010	That is where we agree, and I think we must succeed. But there are municipalities that are breaking the law. Some we hear about in the press, others we only hear about because we are told otherwise. Shouldn't we be putting in harder? I don't suppose it's okay for a town to commit a crime. When a citizen is to be punished for lawbreaking, I guess the municipality has to do the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117172033	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117172035	At least it's not okay for you to commit a crime. The question is what to do about it. Here we are afraid of using powerful sanctions against municipalities, which are so financially pressured that they have a very difficult time living up to things. Of course they must comply with the law, but we have not reached where we are ready to support economic sanctions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117172100	In doing so, we would like to thank the rapporteur. And the next in line is Mrs Marianne Jelved, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117172109	I would also like to sign up to the initiative of the Danish People's Party here, as well as to the Minister's response to the initiative. This seems to me to be a good way of working together to monitor implementation more thoroughly when we make legislation. It's hard to slow down politicians' eagerness to make new laws, but we might try to help each other with that. The child's reform has had a very, very important place in social policy in Denmark over the years, both in relation to the preparation of the reform itself, but also the implementation of it. And I would like to mention five specific objectives, just to illustrate the size of the plan. One objective is to ensure a safe care environment that offers close and stable relationships and other relationships with the child. It is also a goal to ensure the child's or young person's opportunities for personal development and the building of skills to be able to enter into social relations and networks. The third objective is to ensure the education and integration of the child or young person into the education system, and the fourth is to promote the health and well-being of the child or young person. Finally, the fifth goal is to prepare the child or young person for an independent adult life. It can therefore be seen that the child's reform takes care of the whole life of children and young people. You look at all the ages, and you even look beyond the age at which the child becomes of age, i.e. at the age of 18, where one of the tools available is to create protection, i.e. a better transition to adulthood and various forms of support, for example. The right to a contact person from the child or young person is 15 years old until 23 years of age. It is also a very big gesture to a young and vulnerable person who suddenly has to stand on his own feet and be on his own. So there are a lot of good initiatives in this. There is support for parents in the placement of a child by means of a support person, and even after 12 years of age the child can complain about the measures in the municipality, and the child can also have a support person. Then there are two specific initiatives on which I would like to use the rest of my speech. One is Article 49a, which deals with early inter-disciplinary action, and the other is Article 153 on enhanced notification obligations for professionals. I'll start with the easy one, and that's section 153. It is well known throughout the social world and it has actually been evaluated on how it has been used and it has been used very, very much. Much, much more reports have been made while it has been in existence, that is, during the period of the child's reform, and what is said is successful, because there is a chance to intervene earlier when there are problems for a child and a young person. Meanwhile, I am very surprised that section 49a is very difficult to evaluate because it has hardly been used. It is the case that the Danish Social Protection Agency has carried out an evaluation of the Children's Reform, and the latest came here in the autumn of 2016. It was the State-authorized audit company BDO that won the outsourcing made by the Social Service to examine the two paragraphs I have mentioned here, and they say that § 153 works; everyone knows it. But in relation to section 49a it is actually very difficult to find out if anyone knows it. And what puzzles me is, and it is on the basis of 22 years of experience as a teacher in primary school, where I have had a great deal to do with special education children and vulnerable children etc. and so on, that it has been a huge dream to have a paragraph that made it possible to talk across the institutions about the same family and about the same child. Therefore, the purpose of it is to ensure that a healthcare provider, a day care provider, a day care provider from a crèche, an educator in the SFO and a teacher can meet and talk about the family and whether the observations they have made about the children where they have now met them could convince them or make them aware that there was a reason to go in and do something. They do not know that paragraph, it is not being used, and the audit firm has actually examined it to find out why it is not being used. And the conclusion is that it is probably an attitude issue and that it may be that adults who could use it do not like to use it because they can do so without parental consent. And they do not think this is a good way to do it in relation to cooperation between parents and institutions. I think this is a subject which I would really like to discuss with the Minister on the occasion in committee. Now we should not call for consultation in time and early, but that is a subject that we should address. Because why can't it work? It has come in to take action in good time. To conclude, the follow-up to local authorities' practices is an extremely important thing. That was also the message from the Minister, and the way of working with the rate pool has changed constructively. We have gained more sense and focus on development opportunities. Here I would like to draw the municipality of Herning once more to say that it has been inspired by a Swedish municipality, the municipality of Borås, and experimented within its own resources without asking the Danish Parliament for permission and without asking for money for it. A district has been taken out and tried to give the social workers better time, reduced the number of tasks and employed some more social workers, and within one year the newly employed social workers had earned their own wages. Now it is the whole of Herning Municipality, and the pool parties have chosen to make it an example that other municipalities can follow up on. I would just like to say that the municipalities must be involved constructively and that they must help to make things better. This could also be an objective for us. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117172735	We thank the rapporteur. The next is Mrs Trine Torp of the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117172742	Thank you. And again thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising this query debate. I think it is very important that this is an area that we continue to follow, even when there is progress in it. Because we are all really concerned about it, and it is important for us to keep in mind whether the many initiatives we are taking actually also have the importance that they should have. Vulnerable children and young people and families must receive the assistance they need and to which they are entitled under the law. This means that they must know their rights, they must be heard and involved, and they must have help that really meets their needs. This is certainly not an area that has lacked political focus, and in the last ten years we have seen several reforms in this area, which should ensure preventive and multidisciplinary action, rapid assessment of reports on abuse and neglect, child-care studies, action plans, follow-up, involvement of the child and parents, right of assistance, proof of effect, quality in placement, etc. etc. But the question we have to ask ourselves is whether we have achieved what was intended. I hear from parents that municipalities do not always focus on giving parents the support and offers they need to strengthen their relationship with their children. I hear from the children and young people that they do not feel heard and that they lack contact with the people who make such great decisions for their lives. I hear from the case workers that they are drowning in registration and reporting rather than spending time with the children, families and other professionals so that they could actually make a difference. And from placement sites I hear, among other things, that a number of young people must be on their own far too quickly without that protection, the help for the transition to adult life that all young people may need, but especially young people with a special background and a slender network to draw on. The autumn review criticism also tells us that the intentions of the reforms have not been met. In fact, the Ministry is being harshly criticised for failing to ensure proper implementation of the legislation. There is still too much casework that does not comply with the legislation. The involvement of children and young people is lagging behind, and the initiatives taken in connection with the reforms have not improved the quality sufficiently. The then minister's response to the audit criticism was • and that is also what I hear today from the current minister • that there has also been a lot of new legislation in too short a time. But how much new has been the legislative process, at least of the central parts? Well, business plans are nothing new. And follow-up should be a matter of course. Hearing children has been in force since we ratified the Convention on the Rights of the Child 25 years ago. The question is whether it is not rather the many organizational changes that are the reason why we do not see the right developments in this area. The management and management of the area is of great importance for the success of the effort in time. We should also be aware of whether all municipalities have the necessary frameworks and opportunities to help vulnerable children and young people. Some municipalities have a relatively larger share of vulnerable and vulnerable children and a weaker tax base than others. It must not affect children and young people's access to help, which municipality they grow up in. So in the context of the discussion on equalisation, perhaps we should also look at whether the existing criteria for expenditure requirements are relevant. I would say that, unfortunately, there is not just a toolbox that can be pulled out and the area is under control. However, it is important to work towards better legal certainty and greater legitimacy and confidence in the decisions taken in the area of children and young people. Last year we set aside the rate pool funds for the implementation of the Sweden model, the Herning model, or whatever we would call it, in the municipalities, which should ideally ensure more involvement and real legal certainty for both children and parents. If implemented properly and there among others. the development of skills, and here I would like to think as practically as possible, the right educational and treatment efforts and a significantly lower number of cases per case. This can help create a completely different process, which is more direct and binding in the conversation between the parties involved, because it is well thought out and qualified by strengthened cross-professional cooperation. It can also help create frequent follow-up, development of interventions and ongoing evaluation in close contact with children, young people, parents and networks. However, implementation should not be achieved through standardisation and manuals in an attempt to standardise. The good solutions are developed together with children, parents and networks, and the best skills development happens if it is close to practice and if there is strong professional management of the area. The worst thing we can do is try to control the area with even more procedural requirements, because quality in children's cases is not the same as being able to put flybones in a schedule. A child's examination may be completed in good time, the action plan may be completed and the child's interview may be held without the child or young person or parents having the assistance needed and without the child or young person actually feeling involved. So procedure should never be an end in itself. Quality in case management must always be the means to achieve the goal of more children having a safe upbringing and a good life. SF is behind the adoption text that Mrs Pernille Skipper read out not long ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117173340	Thank you. There is one question, and it is from Mr. Carl Holst, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117173345	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. I think there is one element that is perhaps a little contradictory and that I would ask the rapporteur to reflect on. This is the problem that the rapporteur refers, on the one hand, to the harsh criticism of the state auditors and, on the other hand, says that employees spend far too much time on registration. What was the criticism of the state auditors? It was precisely that they had not registered enough. We therefore have a dilemma in that, at one and the same moment, we can say that a little less time must be spent on registration and that there must be much more time, but every time there is a proposal to reduce it, we always have just a reason why it should not be done in this particular case. The rapporteur himself has been a representative of a few of the examples.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117173447	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117173448	In fact, I think it is very important that the questioner raises this dilemma, because that is exactly what we often resort to as politicians, so that we say: now we need even more documentation requirements and even more registrations. But it's just on top of everything else. So I think the time has come for us to find out what kind of documentation we think is the most important. For example, I think it is important to ensure that there are social studies, action plans and follow-up in the cases, but I think it is equally important that their quality is in order. However, there are also a large number of documentation requirements which, as such, do not guarantee legal certainty. It can, for example, be done. be such reports to the Danish Agency of Appeal and Danmarks Statistik, which are only available to feed the system of information. I myself had the pleasure of internship in a family department not so long ago, and so I have also been working door by door with the case officers before I came to parliament, and there I saw how much indifferent documentation was at least seen from the children's and young people's point of view there was in this case, which alone was meant to service the system itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117173608	There was no more, but then there is one question from Mrs Pernille Bendixen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117173613	That's right: it's just one question I just have. The rapporteur says here that you cannot just put everything in a box and then standardize it, and then everything is solved and all is well. That's right. However, we also find that there is a difference in the procedure in the different municipalities. I mean, where you risk one kind of thing, what to call it, actions, you can move to another municipality, and then it's something quite different. I guess that's basically a problem. I guess you have to do a certain amount of alignment and probably also documentation. And then we can agree that documentation is too much, but can we not agree that the right documentation is good?
ParlaMint-DK_20170117173654	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117173654-2	Well, at least we can agree on the latter. I would say that decisions in children's cases are some powerful assessments, which I would be honest to say are placed in the hands of imperfect people, for they are all people. But it is people with a strong intention to make a positive difference for children and young people. I have not met any case officers who intended not to do their job properly. I've seen a lot of people leaving the profession, actually running away from it because they couldn't stand it. I haven't met any councilmen either... and I've been on a council of towns myself... saying... don't worry about legal certainty in our children's cases. In fact, I think that all those who are in this area would like it to work. I think we just have to face up to the fact that there are no simple solutions. Perhaps we should really have a commission that could look at what it really is that is needed to make it easier to meet the legal requirements and deliver a high quality of this work. Then I would like to link myself to the comment that was made earlier on a task force. I think you could develop the task force concept so that you are not just out to see if the right fly legs have been set, but so that the task force really will also be a sparring partner in looking at whether the quality of the case and the help given to the children are also the right one.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117173826	There is a question from Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117173834	Thank you to the rapporteur. What the rapporteur just mentioned with the task force prompts me to ask the question of how the SF views such a model that it should not be voluntary. If you discover in a municipality or if cases come up in the media, as it has also happened that there is a massive failure, could you imagine that it should be the case that the Ankestyrelsen said that the task force should be sent out to the municipality to examine the quality of the proceedings? Or how does SF think it could be?
ParlaMint-DK_20170117173912	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117173913	In fact, I would like to take part in looking at what role the task force could have, including whether to spread it out, so that it is, like, all municipalities that get through this system, and especially those that are specially focused on. But then I think we should also develop the task force. Because a lot of task force work is being done, but it is a lot about the legal approach. I would like the social sector to be linked too, because this is not just about legal certainty. It is important, but it is equally important to ensure that the case-law that is out there really leads to better help for children, and it is not necessarily the same as going out and checking whether you have lived up to it and that in relation to the law. This is not the same as the fact that the right help is actually being given to the children who are going to have it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117174002	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117174005	Should I then understand from the rapporteur that the rapporteur believes that it should be compulsory for the task force to go to all 98 municipalities? It is just to understand the rapporteur correctly. Nowadays, it is the case that you can go on a course within the Social Security Authority, also with a view to better processing. So it's about how it's actually gonna be screwed up, because today it's voluntary. A municipality can just say no. Does the SF believe that, if sanctions are not adopted, it can then be imposed on a municipality that they should accept the task force?
ParlaMint-DK_20170117174041	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117174041-2	First of all, I am quite confident that at least the SFs who sit around the city councils also make sensible decisions. So I really think we should use some gunpowder to appeal to our own municipal hinterlands to try to get a look at their case-handling practices. For the fact that all municipalities have to go through it: I don't know. I think we should try to discuss what kind of model we should have. In fact, I would prefer that we did not necessarily have a task force team, but some who could help the municipalities. That is what I mean by practical competence development, that is, that we not only send employees on training courses, but that we actually have some to sit out there with them, not least in the very difficult and heavy cases which are complicated legally; that it may, like, be some who help with the processing of cases in that way. But I think we should try to develop which models could be best at helping the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117174140	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. And the next in line is mr. Orla Østerby, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117174148	Thank you. With the Children's Reform in 2011, it became clear that the child's best was at the heart of helping and supporting the municipalities to put it into effect. A billion was set aside at that time. kr. over 4 years, so it is not because money was not also set aside for it. The reform consisted of four main points: 1) safety in upbringing, 2) children's and young people's rights, 3) early action which is very important and 4) quality of effort. In the Conservative People's Party, we are of the opinion that the tasks in the social field are best carried out by the municipalities. Why is that? Yes, because the municipalities are closest to the citizens and have the best opportunities to choose the effort best suited to the needs of the individual child and the family. I can also say that, as a municipal councillor, I believe that the municipalities want to do the best possible for vulnerable children and young people. Of course, it is not right for the local authorities to fail to comply with the legislation. It must, and that is why we must be aware of when there are some places where it does not. However, the challenge for the municipalities' proceedings in the field of children is not recent. Unfortunately, this is a problem that the Folketing has done a great deal to resolve in recent years, but it is a tough and long, long move that we have got going on. I'm sitting on the board of the Anke and I've been sitting there as a lay judge, and I have to tell you, it's not like there's no resources being used. It is being used enormous resources for legal assistance and for case handling in this area, and I have often said to myself when I have gone home from such a day at the Ankestyrelsen and have thought of these cases where there is an appeal: oh, where is there a lot of power being used here. But we do that because that is democracy, and that is what we have built up. The question is whether we can do better, and I think we should all take part in this. After all, the Folketing has adopted a number of reforms in the field of vulnerable children. There was the abuse package in 2013, the prevention package in 2014 and the supervisory reform in 2014 with the five new social supervisory units. And this is supported by initiatives such as the establishment by municipalities of a special task force, massive training and notification statistics in 2016. The reforms have helped to increase the focus of the municipalities. There is no doubt about this at all. It is my experience that the municipalities have got much more focus on it. The set up task force and employees from the Ankestyrelsen and the Danish Social Protection Agency have together with the municipalities completed 46 courses. That is not a small thing, we have to say, and we should bear in mind that these processes have been in municipalities that have voluntarily been interested in going into these matters and getting the legal and social advice provided by the task force when it comes out. The implementation of the major reforms in such a short time has been a greater challenge for the municipalities than the Folketing might have assumed when it started. I think the lesson could also be that perhaps the pace of the new reforms and of legislation has been too high. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117174532	We thank the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister for Children and Social Affairs again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117174545	Thank you for that, President, and thank you for a good and constructive debate. You can feel that it is something that fills, and it is something that is important for all the rapporteurs, and I think that is very, very nice. In recent years, we have adopted a number of reforms • I listed a number of them and it was both in 2011, 2013 and 2014, so there has been a real, really big focus. It has also been a major task for the municipalities to implement those reforms. We know that. What we also know is that there are still municipalities that have problems in complying with the legislation and that do not have sufficient quality in the procedure, and that is not acceptable. But there has also been agreement that we in the Folketing should have a greater focus on ensuring that the reforms we adopt have the desired effect before we adopt new rules, and that is why I was so pleased with Mrs Marianne Jelved's speech, in which she said that it might well be that we should stop and look at the existing rules rather than always adding new rules to new rules. I think that precisely in this area, it might be a good logic to follow. Thank you for the debate. I have listened quite a lot. I think that is a good input that the rapporteurs have made, and that is something that we have a great deal of focus on, both now and in the future. So thank you for the debate and then I look forward to the questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117174714	Thank you. No one has signed up for short remarks. Now there came the call. The first is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117174730	[Sound emission]... Minister's speech. In today's debate we discussed the task force that has been set up, and I would like to hear from the Minister about what the Minister has also heard today, that is to say that this area is perhaps an area that can be looked at and developed further. It is not because you have to make new legislation, but to see whether the task force, as it is today, works as intended, or if you could imagine if you, also as a minister, become aware that a given municipality may go again, or that there are challenges in relation to that municipality, that you could send out the task force to help you not to poke them and hit them in the head, but to help them to ensure quality, help the case workers and help the municipality. Could it be imagined that the Minister would look at that part of it and possibly develop it in relation to the task force?
ParlaMint-DK_20170117174833	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117174836	Well, the task force is voluntary today, and I actually think that if you're going to have the task force working best, it's important that it's a task force that we don't squander into a municipality, but where it's a municipality that wants to change its own procedures and wants to go through the processes that there are. After all, the task force is a tool for learning in the municipalities, and it is not as such a control tool. It is the case that the task force offers the municipalities both legal and also social advice about the municipalities' handling of their cases in the children's and young people's field in general and also helps to disseminate the best knowledge about the case management. And this is the kind of kind of long-term analysis that can then be included in. So I really think it is good that they focus on the legal and social issues and that they come in and end up in a municipality. So, starting with that, it's good.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117174942	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117174944	I just want to know if I understood correctly, that is to say that the Minister really believes that the task force that is today is working satisfactorily. What is really difficult, the way I have experienced it while I have been sitting in here, is sometimes admitting its mistakes. It takes a long time to discover that some mistakes have been made almost regardless of who it is, i.e. whether it is regions or municipalities or perhaps the Folketing, or who it is until one recognises that there have been errors in this area. So I can of course fear that many municipalities will opt out of this because they are afraid of what will come out. We have seen that a particular municipality has visited the task force twice to ensure better quality of cooperation, but what do we do about some of the municipalities where it is discovered that it is not satisfactory? What is being done to improve efforts there?
ParlaMint-DK_20170117175041	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117175043	So, I think that we can always improve and I think that we must always have an ambition to develop the whole area and ensure that the bodies we have follow with time and with development as well. So I believe we can always get better. I am quite sympathetic to Mrs Adsbøl's question, because it may seem strange that there are municipalities that refuse to visit the task force. And when I say 'no', it is not because we are trying to squeeze in the task force, but, as Mrs Adsbøl also mentioned in her speech, which was really, really fine, there are municipalities where a political proposal has been put forward to get the task force to look at it, but where it is then rejected. And I think that also seems really, really weird, because you can just get a really good learning. And then I would just like to say to the municipal councillors that it is just going out and making noise in your home community and saying that there seems to be a mayor here who does not want to get good advice and have good opportunities to do those things in a better way.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117175154	Then it is Mrs Karin Nødgaard, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117175158	Thank you. In his opening speech, the Minister said that it takes time to translate legal provisions into radical changes to the extreme. I would really like to hear what the Minister intends to do in order to get into the extreme. I really think there has been enough time to get to the extreme. The Minister does not think we have reached the extreme point yet, and perhaps we are not when we still see that there are things that do not work in relation to the legislation we have made in here. That is why I think it is important for the Minister to say: that is enough, so something must be done. Because otherwise we'll be back here in two years. And we've been standing here before, and the Danish People's Party has called several social ministers to debate about this increased accountability, the child's reform, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117175245	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117175247	I think we will also be here in five years' time, simply because this is an area that is so insane and where we will always be ambitious. But it must also be said that this is an area which is subject to a certain degree of discretionary uncertainty, and that means that I always think it will be difficult to completely rule out the possibility of that failure. I think that's the way it is when you deal with such vulnerable citizens. It is true, however, that I said that it takes time to transpose legal provisions into the utmost terms. I also said that I will take the lead in ensuring better and closer follow-up of municipal practices, including that we continue to focus on strengthening the impact of social interventions, so that we have a better knowledge of what is working, and that is what is being implemented locally. So I take the lead in ensuring better and closer follow-up. There should be no doubt about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117175343	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117175346	Then it may be that we may already have to meet in a year's time and then hear the Minister again about it, so that we do not have to wait for five years, because it would be very good if the Minister were to follow it so closely that we can already see that when we meet, it is actually to say that there has been no failure. That is why I am a little concerned when the Minister says that it is based on estimates when you go in and do something like that, and also that failure will happen again. So our objective from in here must be that this should not happen, and that must also be the minister's objective, and certainly not the type of serious failure that several of the rapporteurs have mentioned from the platform. So could the Minister not be a little more specific in relation to the short-term objective?
ParlaMint-DK_20170117175422	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117175423	Then I am afraid that Mrs Karin Nødgaard misunderstood me, because I am quite in agreement. And there is none of what Mrs Karin Nødgaard has said, which I do not fully share. I just do not think that we will get there, that we will see that there will be no complaints about decisions, for example. I think you'd like to see that. What we must, of course, ensure is that the social safety net is so finely masked that we will have everyone picked up. But I am always at the disposal of the good debates, and I would say that I do not think it is a declaration of failure if we have another debate in a year's time. I would actually like to say that I take this as an expression of the fact that there are politicians who take this issue very seriously and want to discuss how we develop it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117175504	The provisional last of a brief remark is Mrs Pernille Bendixen, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117175510	If the Minister is plaguing about it, then we can ask a few questions. The minister mentions Marianne Jelved, and Marianne Jelved pointed out something interesting, namely in connection with this collaboration: why doesn't it work and why isn't it used? There may be all kinds of reasons for that. It could be that there was a small trade war out there, compared to who had which area and something like that. We have seen this in other areas. So my question is: could the Minister take the initiative to do something about the things mentioned by Marianne Jelved in relation to this section 49 and in relation to whether a little has to be cleared up in the previous reforms? It could be a place where you could intervene and maybe actively make a difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117175550	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117175552	I thought it was a really, really exciting speech that Mrs Marianne Jelved made, and I think it was also a good inspiration. I just have to stress that these are different ways of doing the job out there. I mean, I was in Silkeborg yesterday, and there they have a holistic family effort, which means that when the family approaches, there is one case worker who handles all things. This has made the families much more tranquil; it has simply been possible to see that the parents have gone to work, that the children thrive better in school. It's in every way a really, really good way to do it. So that's how you organize it in Silkeborg, and you can do it in many different ways. What I am interested in from the ministry, and which I also think many others and the rapporteurs are interested in, is simply finding out what it is for efforts that work, and then getting them spread out to the municipalities so that they know that when they start something, it is at least on a certain basis of knowledge and that it is good and thus ultimately helps to give the families a better job.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117175652	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117175657	Well, we know that the Herning model works, so you don't have to invent the deep plate several times. It is a good thing that Silkeborg has something that they think is right for them, but the problem is also just that and I have mentioned this before that there will be different ways of dealing with cases in the different municipalities, and that means that there will also be different decisions. And it is a bit of a problem, then, that some families get hit by something, while others do not, that is, that some families are offered some bets, while others do not. Or should we just accept that it is very different in the 98 municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20170117175730	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117175732	No, of course we should not accept that, and I really do not think we do. We also have the Ankestyrelsen, who goes in and makes assessments. I feel that we also need to have faith in the institutions that we have set up ourselves and that is whether it is a social inspectorate or the Ankestyrelsen. But I am also where I say that, of course, things can always get better and that I will always do everything I can to make sure that things get better. We just have to go back to December, when, after 14 days of being a minister, I sent out a shepherd letter to all the municipalities, saying that now they should be aware that, with regard to this one with lost earnings and school offers of 30, 33, 35 hours respectively, depending on the step you are on, there is therefore a law to be observed. So we're coming with you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117175818	We can thus thank the Minister. Then the proposer, the initiator of the question, has asked for a final comment. This is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117175831	Thank you for that, President, and also thank the Minister, and thank all the rapporteurs who have taken part in this debate. There have been a great many good speeches, and it is true, as has been said in today's debate, that we have seen a huge failure in the area of children. Every time we have seen the huge failures, here we have grasped the need to tighten up the legislation. As the SF said, it has of course resulted in some social workers feeling that they have to document too much and are too little out by the children. This is because we want an overview of the notifications that are coming in and the actions that are being taken. As many people are talking about today, among other things. Liberal Alliance, gives it some bureaucracy. But it's really hard, because what's to be spared? What are you gonna do without in this whole area? It is true, as the rapporteur of the Left said, that it is not only the current minister who is responsible. If I have spoken correctly, nine ministers have been in office since 2004. I have now cooperated with five of the ministers who have been sitting. I would like to sign for the shepherd's letter, which the Minister has just mentioned. We are very happy about this in the Danish People's Party. This is one of the issues we have raised in connection with the question of lost earnings, among other things. when you have a sick child or a child with disabilities. I've noted a lot here. When we have this debate today, it is not about whether you are for or against placements. It is about the right children being placed on the right basis. Something else I have often thought about when you have followed these broadcasts and the Rebild case that rolled back then, and Asbjørn Wittmann, who got the Cavling Prize in 2011, I think is how the cases about those children have been followed up afterwards. Have they subsequently received the support and assistance they need? Or continue to fail? We also sometimes hear that failure continues and the children do not get the right help afterwards. I think that's something we should take along in this area. I hear in today's debate, as I heard at a conference I was at, that there is a lack of support for parents. Having your child removed or placed outside the home put parents in a crisis, and they need help to understand what has happened and the background on which a child has been placed outside the home. Then there's the case workers. I fully agree with what has been said. I think everyone is incredibly interested in doing the best in this area, whether it is the social workers, the municipalities, the politicians or others, but we must note that no matter how well you try to do it, it is not good enough and there is still a long way to go. Now I was reading in Everything today, where the Children's Terms have a post that says that legal certainty is threatened for children placed in care. This is an interesting contribution, because we are also discussing the quality of the procedure. I quote from the post: "Even when a child's conversation is conducted, the quality of the conversation is often not good enough, as the Children's Conditions bisidder team has experienced through the bisiding of more than 2,000 children in social matters. An experience supported by a study by the National Centre for Welfare, which showed that more than half of the 11-17-year-olds have not been consulted on the choice of location. It is, after all, the whole essence of the issue of children and their legal certainty. They must be heard, and their words must be weighted. We must always focus from in here on how we can do better. I also hear that there is a willingness to look at whether there are some things we can do. It is not because we need to bring in new legislation, but can we adjust some of the things that are already in place today? Can we make things better? Among other things: Paragraph 49 (a) was mentioned. It is quite interesting, even when we are talking about nomadic families moving back and forth between different municipalities, and when we talk about help for the family, which I think should be strengthened through the prevention clause, which I mentioned in my speech. I think it has been an interesting debate we have had today. I would have said a few things to the Enhedslisten, but they are not here, but it was not to be polemical that I put questions to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur. As far as the notification register is concerned, I think we should look at how we can apply it, because we know that in schools it is the boys who are being informed, and in the health system it is the girls. But it is important that we look at whether there are some things we can do even better from in here. I would like to thank you for today's debate. This has been interesting and I look forward to working together to do even better for the children at risk and their families.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117180359	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked for the floor, and the debate is therefore closed. I would point out that two proposals have been tabled for adoption and they will be put to the vote on Thursday.
ParlaMint-DK_20170117180415	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday, January 18th, at 9 a.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
