ParlaMint-DK_20170324100010	The meeting is open. The Transport, Building and Housing Committee has presented: Report on Transport, Building and Housing Minister Ole Birk Olesen's lack of information in the PostNord Denmark case. 4. The report will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324100035	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324100054	The debate is open. This is Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324100117	Thank you. It should not be a secret that, if I had not already had it, I would have had gray hair along the way, because it is relatively complex to understand what it is that is actually the consequence of this. That will probably reflect a great deal in what I'm going to say about it. Because what this is all about is putting two research institutions together. It may sound quite innocent, and it may sound quite technical, and it is precisely in the details that the devil is lying, and the details I think have actually been quite difficult to really get the drill out, i.e. what the consequence of it will really be. We are quite concerned about this proposal, and that is, of course, because we have the objective of research, on the one hand, there is very free research and, on the other hand, there is a lot of basic research, that is, very little managed research, and we believe that the things that have been delivered in the field of social research have been absolutely crucial to the quality of the conversation we have been able to have with each other as a society, about what we should do in relation to society's most vulnerable citizens. So this is also something that is very close to our hearts. This connection could turn out to be innocent. I think that will prove a little more in the work of the committee, but my challenge is actually that we have a government which has tried in every way to close its eyes to the consequences of the policy pursued by the government. So excuse me if we're a little bit skeptical about those who are the sender of this exact bill. After all, with this government, we have had the poverty line and the poverty statement abolished. These are two tools which, in our opinion, are absolutely essential in order not only to be able to uncover the scale of the problem, but also, in particular, to be able to find out where it is most important in our society that we take action if we are to eliminate poverty. That way you're going to fight blindly because we don't have a part of the tools that we had in the past to reveal these things. That is why, of course, we have our scepticism about what is actually the intention of merging these two research institutions. And if the intention is to be made even more blind and deaf to the social consequences of the policy being pursued, then, of course, we are not prepared to support the proposal. On the other hand, we can see some reasoning about merging them, if things get screwed up in the right way. We fear that the merger of SFI and KORA will lead to less knowledge and less opportunity to follow developments for the particular groups, and less knowledge of the effects and consequences of different frameworks and structures for our societies, especially for the vulnerable groups. We have also noted that a large number of social actors and organisations share that concern. They have expressed the view that the draft law represents a downgrading of real social research and a new research centre, which is less independent of political agendas. It is quite worrying if it is the case that the organisations are right to have a research centre that is more dependent on political agendas, so that research is more politically managed in the social field than it has been in the past. That will of course be some of what we would like to see drilled out. We have noted that some changes have been made on top of the consultation process. We are very pleased about that, and we think that is actually moving in the right direction. If those changes had not been there, I would say on behalf of the Social Democrats that we would just vote blankly against the proposal. But I would say that the changes that have been made are a response in some key areas, and that is why I believe that in the committee work I will spend a little more time delving into whether enough has been given. Several of the consultation responses, including: The Council of the Social Affairs Council and the Danish Association of Social Advisers have raised a particular concern about the subject area in the social field and about the downgrading of real research. They believe that the merger in the way in which the bill is drafted will lead to less real social research in vulnerable groups and more focus on application-oriented analyses, which are today KORA's core task. We can then see that the Ministry has somehow responded to some of the criticisms and has changed the original draft law, and we are very pleased about that. It's the right way. It has been made clear that both research and analysis must be carried out at international level and that it is good that the purpose of the Centre is to include both the objectives of the KORA, i.e. to promote quality development, better use of resources, governance in the public sector, and the aim of the SFI, namely to highlight social conditions, including working, economic and family conditions, and other national and international social conditions and developments of importance to the living conditions of the population. After all, we believe that both the one purpose and the other are justified, so when we welcome this clarification, it is because it is not at the expense of KORA's purpose. In fact, it should be the case that both are covered. Both are crucial object fields, and both core tasks must continue because we want to have more knowledge about this than less. We still have a problem with how the board is put together, even if something has been done about this. So it's just to say, I think you've come really far. But I hope that the Minister will be prepared to put it here in a slightly broader framework, so that we do not just go for the narrowest possible majority on this, but that we try to talk about a solution in which we can all see ourselves and where we get the best possible research in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324100645	Then it's mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324100655	Thank you. The starting point of this draft law is that two research institutions should be merged. One is the SFI, which is the National Research Centre for Welfare, and the other is the KORA, which is the National Institute of Analysis and Research of Municipalities and Regions. It's actually called that; it's amazing names, so it's a good thing we've cut them short. It is an agreement that comes from the Financial Law Agreement. The agreement has of course been concluded on the understanding that there are no substantive changes to the research part of SFI and KORA, but that this is merely an administrative improvement in the efficiency of the merger. You can simply save some money by doing these things. First you can save 5 million. kr., and then it rises to 10 million. kr. a year, which is a considerable sum, which can then be used for some other good things in Denmark. However, a number of concerns have been expressed in the consultation responses about what is happening with, among other things. quality assurance of research. This applies in particular to access to data. But we are assured that these matters will be dealt with. However, in the course of the committee procedure, we would ask the Minister to describe a little more in detail how this access can be guaranteed. If the Minister can already deal with this today, it will of course be fine, but it will be done during the committee procedure. So on that basis the Danish People's Party will be able to support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324100836	Thank you. There are no comments. Then it is Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324100845	Thank you. As has also been mentioned by previous rapporteurs, this bill means that SFI and KORA will be merged. In this way, knowledge is collected and may thus contribute to the development of welfare policy. First of all, I would also like to say that the Left supports this bill. We do so because we believe that the proposal will help to strengthen research and analysis work in the field of welfare. This will strengthen developments in this area. Perhaps there will also be an opportunity to improve the quality of work and increase efficiency when we, it might be said, pool resources under the same roof. We believe that this can ultimately benefit both SFI and KORA, but also private organisations, public actors and citizens. On the criticism that has been made of the proposal, I would like to say that we in the Left have every confidence that the core academic activities will not be weakened. In fact, in the left's view, the proposal is not an exercise of austerity, but a matter of pooling expertise and joint resources in one place. The combination will therefore not weaken research in the social field nor the other welfare areas with which the Centre is concerned. Against this background, I can say that we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324101018	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324101023	I was just stunned that the rapporteur is saying that this is not an austerity exercise. It's just interesting. I thought it was quite honest to say that this is a matter of saving some money. If this is not an austerity exercise, I would like to ask the rapporteur something: is the rapporteur not concerned about the costs of the merger? After all, it costs money when public institutions have to be changed. There are offices that need to be moved around and stuff like that. The costs are set to be taken out of operation, i.e. from the research. If the exercise is not to save money, why is it that it has been decided simply to drop the research for a number of years while the restructuring, the merger, is taking place?
ParlaMint-DK_20170324101114	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324101116	It is clear that the draft law here is a decision that has been taken in connection with the Finance Act. It's true that making this change will make a saving. In the first year, about 5 million will be achieved. kr. and then about 10 million. kr. in savings. But that has not only been the purpose, because you actually believe that by bringing the two units closer together, you will ultimately be able to get something good out of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324101148	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324101151	Thank you. I heard that wasn't the only purpose, and that's why I'm asking again. That's what I asked you just now. I hope I get an answer because it's my last chance. Is the rapporteur not worried that the costs involved in the merger will have to be taken off the ground, which means that research will have to be reduced for a number of years? The fact is that this will mean that there will be some concrete savings on research which will simply be smaller for some years, while there will be expenditure on restructuring. If it was not the money that was sought first and foremost, then it must be very, very much the concern of the rapporteur of the Left that we will have poorer research both in terms of welfare and in terms of public administration during this period.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324101233	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324101235	As I said in my first reply to the questioner, the author of the Enhedslisten can see that there is a difference between the first year and the second year. As I read the bill, the first round is expected to save 5 million. kr. and in the following years 10 million. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324101255	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Pernille Skipper as rapporteur, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324101311	Thank you for that, President. With this proposal, as has been said by many, the government will merge the SFI, i.e. the National Research Centre for Welfare, which I think many still know as the Social Research Institute, and the KORA, which is the National Institute of Municipalities and Regions Analysis and Research. On the other hand, savings are achieved over a few years. First of all, I would like to say that I certainly think there is potential for cooperation between the two institutions. The fact that they can work more closely together can certainly promote something very good, create some new ideas and some new dynamics if you need to use such a buzzword. Perhaps some duplication of effort will sometimes be avoided. There is certainly a coincidence and potential in ensuring better cooperation between the two areas. And there are some opportunities that could be taken advantage of. Having said that, there are also some concerns. Overall, we should remember that although there are interfaces, SFI and KORA do not work immediately, even though they both deal with the welfare area in general. It is not the same to deal with public governance and resource use and quality development as it is to research and investigate social conditions. For example, things are getting worse. on vulnerable groups or living conditions for ordinary people or negative social heritage. That's what the SFI does. If you are to draw it out clearly, it is not the same thing to do research in the workflows of an administration that is to investigate, for example. the reasons why people live on the streets. This is the rough outline of the two areas. So we're pretty sceptical about this merger, even though there are areas where there are interfaces. Although the work of KORA and SFI is certainly of importance to each other, it is not the same. At a time when social policy has become more employment policy, when we are talking much less about the needs and potential and abilities of the individual and much more about incentives and management mechanisms, we are concerned that this will result in actual social research being strangled or at least highly decimated. If this bill is implemented, the social area as such will no longer have its own research institute, as has been done in the past. It will be transferred from the Ministry of Children and Social Affairs to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Interior. There you have a completely different focus for good reason. We find that worrying. It may not be worrying what it will mean in half or a whole year, more what it will mean in five or ten years' time for social research. More specifically, there are some concrete things in this bill that we are going to ask questions about and that we think are very crucial to whether or not we ultimately choose to support it. First of all, the board model in KORA today will be transferred to this new unit. This means that the complete independence of the SFI's board of directors is abolished today. Where the Board of Directors of the SFI is today appointed by independent bodies, the Board of Directors of the new entity will be appointed by the Ministry. Although I agree and would like to commend the government for listening to the hearings and addressing them, so that more members have come in from the Free Research Council, the Ministry of Children and Social Affairs has received a representative, etc., there is still an overweight of representatives coming from the office. It is therefore a minority of independent members of the board who come from the research world and have professional insights. This is something that is a classic board model, I would say, by the ministries and which, at least I have seen in the past, results in the fact that, on very crucial questions of principle, the narrow majority of civil servants trump the professional minority. Secondly, we are very concerned about funding and restructuring. It costs money to merge and reorganise institutions. For a period of time, you have to move around employees and IT systems have to be shut down, etc. As I read it, one is prepared to take part of it from operating costs. This means that the actual core tasks are scaled down for a period of time. Of course, we will also ask some questions about how we can avoid this. That's all.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324101815	Thank you. There are no comments. Sir. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324101827	With the bill we are considering, we are putting together, as has now become apparent, two research and analysis institutes, KORA and SFI, in the Danish Center for Social Science Research, as it is called. It's a long title. KORA and SFI have to a certain extent overlaps in both activities and expertise. That is why it makes quite good sense to bring these forces together in a joint research and analysis centre which is independent, which can contribute to the development of welfare policy, thereby promoting quality development and better use of resources. In my view, we need higher quality. It is no more than a few days ago that the State auditors criticised the Ministry of Children and Social Affairs for not being able to perform any relevant impact assessments. We spend billions of dollars on social matters without really knowing if there are any effects of it. I believe that overall research in this area could help. At least we're not good enough for it today. As has already been mentioned, there is no question of closing anything down. We are gathering things together in order to have a better professional environment, by the way just as we have been doing with universities for many years. We have collected professional environments to get more research for the money. The fact that we can then also save a little administration, rent and management does not make matters any worse. The Liberal Alliance supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324102006	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324102022	Thank you. In the alternative, we really think this is a saving exercise. That's why it doesn't have to be a bad exercise. I really think that the rapporteur for the DF says this very clearly: it is efficiency. In my world it is a saving exercise, but that is why we can try to maintain the quality of the work of the two different institutes. So that is actually what we are looking at in the alternative. We are pleased that more experienced rapporteurs than I also think this is a quite complex matter. We have spent a long time discussing it in the Alternative, and I have spent a long time discussing it with our research rapporteur. We are not ready to vote for the merger of SFI and KORA right now. As several rapporteurs before me, we are concerned that the merger will go beyond the possibility of doing free basic research in the social field. We are concerned that the Ministry of Children and Social Affairs is actually losing its own research body. In concrete terms, the new research institute will no longer be subject to sectoral legislation, as is the case with the SFI. We see it as a way of making sector legislation more effective in researching on our own initiative. Researchers can initiate free basic research projects in the social field. It is not because we do not believe that there is a need for a lot of practical research. It is not because we are not in favour of creating directly applicable knowledge. But for us, free basic research is a way of putting the long light on society's social sphere and of running out of research into questions that may not be answered for another ten years. We need to do research in the concrete reality, yes, but we also need to experiment and try to ask questions about the future that have not yet been formulated at all. This means that researchers must be given the freedom and the opportunity to pursue a wonder that might reveal the veil to tomorrow's world. It is knowledge that we need to use when radical political ideas about the future need to be debated and qualified and become a reality. This is incredibly important for us in the Alternative, as we must have the courage to imagine a radically different future in which people's lives and well-being are given priority than is the case today. We call it the social bottom line of society. Therefore, we cannot vote in favour of this proposal until we are absolutely convinced that it does not reduce the scope for free basic research in the social field, even if we recognise that there is a overlap between the two institutes and that there is a saving to be made, and even if we agree that, on the basis of the consultation answers, the Ministry has moved a piece on the issue of board composition. We are actually thinking that one of our questions could be whether you could put this new research institute under sectoral legislation. That is a question we will ask directly to the Minister. We will continue to work on whether this proposal meets the intention of maintaining the quality of research in both institutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324102321	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then it is Mrs Sanne Bjørn, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324102330	Thank you very much. As several rapporteurs have already mentioned, this is a very interesting proposal, because it may seem that you are just putting two institutions together and then some money has been saved, and that is very clever. However, there are some points in the proposal where the Radical Left is at least very sceptical and critical of what needs to be done. We need to clarify this and also adjust it before we can support this merger. That is particularly the whole purpose of it, because is it really an efficiency centre that we need to set up? In relation to the old wording on the main objective of the SFI, namely that research at an international high level should create new knowledge relevant to society in one's field of work and contribute to the analysis, evaluation, systematic research overview, data collection, dissemination and advice that can be based on new research-based knowledge of society from both Danish and international research, I must say that what is now in the aim is to contribute to the development of welfare policy and to promote quality development, better use of resources, efficiency and financial management, for me to see is quite different. As we see it, SFI's tasks disappear very much in the description that has been made, and we are very concerned about that. With this merger, we actually mean that the government is moving a little on rocking ground, and we will therefore appeal strongly to rethink it and at the very least ensure the continued free research-based model that is for the SFI. It is a rather unique institution based on free research. It is not only documentation and the impact of the political initiatives that have been taken, that is, what has been commissioned by municipalities and regions, but also the free research-based activity that the government is now going to drop. In fact, we believe that this can have some rather fatal consequences. There is a trend which is seen in several places, but it is not places with which we usually want to be compared. The institutions providing the knowledge and research on which informed decisions are based must never be accused of being politically governed. Our researchers and institutions must be the guarantors of the fact that the knowledge we have is to oppose it when it is needed, even if it is inconvenient. They must be free and independent. It is one of the pillars of modern democracy. That is one of the reasons why we are highly sceptical about that part of it in particular, and it is far more serious than a technical institutional merger, which, in many areas too, we think, can make a great deal of sense if it is about saving rent, having a common call centre or whatever it may be that may be the background to it. We are also interested to hear the Minister describe this. SFI is also the only research institution we have in Denmark, which has the primary competence to research in preventing the marginalisation of children and those at risk. Over the years, they have contributed to new knowledge that you didn't know you needed. And it is crucial for the policy we are creating that it is done on a knowledge-based basis. That is also what we see in the consultation answers from the employees, but also from many other places, namely that we are pouring out social research with the bathing water. I have also noticed that the Minister has proposed changes to strengthen this part of it because it may seem unclear. I have to say: yes, that is quite right. It is far too unclear, and it needs to be written in much more than it is today. Then there is the whole question of the board and the economy. There, too, we need to clarify what exactly is the basis for this, because there are several of the consultation responses that also emphasise that it makes sense to create a professional community and to develop those areas and knowledge elements between the two institutions. That is again where we say that we need to have a better balance, so that it is not the SFI that just turns into KORA, but that it is two different institutions on two different bases that have two different purposes and two very different board compositions that need to merge. This must be done on a different basis from what we see described here. So the fact that it can be much more like an efficiency centre than a research institution that helps to ask critical questions and find the knowledge that we did not know we needed, makes you pour this out with the bathing water. That is why we are very much looking forward to the committee reading and hopefully we will be able to make some changes that take these things into account. Until then, we are waiting for the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324102811	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Trine Torp, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324102820	In SF we would really like to help strengthen and coordinate the research environments in the social and welfare policy field in Denmark. We would like to have relevant practical research and application-oriented research and, yes, a practical research that is being carried out together with the practitioners who are actually going to develop the area. We would also like to see high-quality research and an international perspective. However, we also want research that is independent and impartial, and that is something that we attach importance to, and that is why we also have some concerns about the legislative proposal. Because we may have some doubts as to the true nature of the strengthening of research and we may be concerned that there is a risk of a downgrade in the social field of free research, which is so important, not only for the knowledge base here and now, but also for the long-term development of the social area. In general, basic research has been written out of the new research institution, stating that research, motivated only by new recognition, will only be carried out if it has a concrete application. I would just like to say that some of the quality of free research, as the radical rapporteur said, is that it creates knowledge that we did not think we needed. Very much social development is, when we look at the research widely, created by some having produced knowledge we didn't know we needed. So not only does it weaken efforts in the social field right now, but it may also prevent the development of the social area in the long term. We think that there is an equal amount of focus on the aim of research to improve efficiency, use of resources and governance, and that is what one has to ask oneself a fundamental question: is it an institute of analysis, or is it a research institution that one wants? Because it's for me to see two different things. These are two things that are very well connected, but they are two different things, and it must also be the case, as several have said, that research should not just be politically commissioned work. We want less political research, not more. Then there is the whole question of where it should be located, and I wonder whether we can also discuss it in committee, whether it is possible that both will be part of the sectoral research institution. We are therefore sceptical about the draft law, but we would like to engage constructively in the work of the committee to see if we can change some of our concerns. A possible merger would, of course, result in improved research rather than the opposite.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324103114	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next is Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324103122	The aim of the bill here, as several other rapporteurs have also mentioned, is to establish a new research and analysis centre by merging SFI and KORA. Since there is a coincidence in the areas of activity and the expertise of SFI and KORA, and since a merger can better plan and coordinate overall efforts in welfare areas, it makes sense to merge them into a research and analysis centre. So the Conservative People's Party can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324103200	Thank you. Then it's the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324103209	I would like to start by thanking you for a good debate on the legislative proposal, which aims to create the legal basis for setting up a new research and analysis centre. As Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen described it so graphically in the beginning, it happens by creating the Danish Center for Social Science by merging SFI, which, if you just look at the letters, may surprise some by standing for the National Research Centre for Welfare, and KORA, which in the same way may be difficult to find the whole logic of the National Institute for Communes and Regions Analysis and Research hiding behind. But these are the two institutions that we would like to join together, and this follows an agreement made by the former Left Government with its three then supporting parties, the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party. Then, during the consultation phase, there has been a great deal of attention to whether there were any problems with doing so, in terms of how to do it, the composition of the board, the purpose, the quality of research, etc. We have tried to answer that in the context of the hearings. I think we have listened a great deal to the consultations that have been held. Several people have signed for that too. We've looked into it in relation to the board's composition. We've looked at it in terms of purpose. We have looked at it in relation to the description of what scope it is. It's made to be safe. Nevertheless, there are a large number of questions which I would like to address more specifically and chronologically. The first rapporteur up here was the Socialist rapporteur, Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil. I would like to start by saying that I am pleased that the Social Democrats have already moved from no to perhaps after the hearings. This certainly means that there may be a hope for a slightly wider majority than has been proposed. There is the question of research at the new centre, and it is just incredibly important for me to stress, as I have also done in response to several committee questions, that all the research currently at SFI and KORA can be carried out by the new centre. There is nothing we can do today that we will not be able to do in the future. That, in fact, is what matters. It is also the case that, following the comments made in relation to section 1 of the draft law, no. 8, has clarified that the Centre's scope for carrying out research is more clear, including the weighting between application-oriented, practical research and more fundamental research. It is also made clear that the Centre is driving research to the highest international level. Then, apart from Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil, several speakers have raised the question of the relationship between application-oriented research and other more free research. I think Mrs Pernille Skipper also mentioned that. I also believe that the alternative rapporteur and the SF rapporteur mentioned this. Several people were talking about this. It is just important to emphasise that already today at the SFI there is a large proportion of use-oriented, and then there are other research besides, and that is not in itself a change in this draft law. Then it was sir. Alex Ahrendtsen from the Danish People's Party. I acknowledge the positive approach to the draft law, but I also hear the question that was at the end of the rapporteur's speech on access to various types of data. This is a matter that I am aware of myself and I would very much like to enter into a positive dialogue with the rapporteur and the Danish People's Party on it. I do not know whether we can resolve this in the specific legislative proposal here, but it may be that we can then make another legislative proposal and resolve that problem. At any rate, I am aware of the matter. I think it was Mrs Pernille Skipper and I apologise if it was not just the rapporteur in question who mentioned it here with what ministry it should be in relation to SFI and KORA. I would just like to inform you that both institutions are already under the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Interior. There's nothing under the Ministry of Social Affairs. In particular, with regard to the alternative, I would just like to say that some of the questions raised in the rapporteur's speech have already been answered in Question No. S 536, S 537 and S 538 and in question 236. part, from the same lot. It was just from another honourable colleague, Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier. So I hope that those answers can give answers to some of it, and if there are further follow-up questions, of course I am prepared to go into it. Then I would like to thank the vast majority of the rapporteurs for saying that if it is the case that we are wasting some money on having double administrations and we can have the same research with less administration. Alex Ahrendtsen's words release some money that we can use for other good purposes. I've been very willing to listen. I have had a very good dialogue, especially with the Danish Social Advisor Association, to make sure that we can do so in a way that is in keeping with the original proposal. When I hear some of the concerns, of course they remind me of some of the concerns that were also before we amended the proposal, and then we can always consider whether we should be tactical and wait for concessions to be made after the first reading. Then maybe it would have been reassuring at better time. I shouldn't be able to say that. However, I am open to further questions and dialogue, and if there are people who have good points, I would say that good points are always welcome. Thank you for your comments. I look forward to the future work on the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324103832	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324103836	Thank you very much for those words, I would like to say to the Minister. Yes, it is quite true that we have asked questions, among other things. on the conditions under which free basic research may continue in the same way in the SFI. The Minister has also replied to them and thank you for what we have discussed very carefully. And when we keep up some questions, it is of course because we want to be sure that we do not feel completely convinced of it after the Minister's reply that free basic research will have the same conditions. It is not really so much a question; it is just a comment that says: let us take a look at it. So we have to be sure of that, at least before we press the green button on this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324103922	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324103924	Thank you. And that's quite fair. I would just like to draw your attention to the consultation note, where we note that and this is on the basis of exactly the criticism that Mr. Torsten Gejl here says in section 2.1.3. of the general remarks to the bill:... the Centre shall have a comprehensive purpose description covering both the objectives of the KORA (to promote quality development, better use of resources and governance in the public sector) and the objectives of the SFI (to highlight social conditions, including working, economic and family conditions, as well as other national and international social conditions and developments relevant to the living conditions of the population). I have also pointed out in some of the answers to the questions put by Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier that the research being carried out in the SFI today, which is not the application-oriented research, will continue to be carried out in the newly merged institute.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324104015	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324104018	I am glad to hear that, and that is also what we have been asking. In one of the other answers, after arguing for his answer, the Minister says: "I do not believe, therefore, that the merger weakens research in the social field...·. There is what we would like to see tormented the free basic research in the social field. So these are rather general terms that the Minister has used here and in which, as I said, we would like to drill a little.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324104044	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324104046	If you need to ask a follow-up written question in order to get an answer from the Minister, written with a sharper pen, then I will make sure that it is pointed out.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324104054	Thank you. Then no one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs, Internal Affairs and the Committee on Children's Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324104110	The debate is open, and the Minister for Education first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324104133	The Enhedslisten, with B 57, has proposed that before the end of October 2017, the government should submit a draft law on the introduction of a new provision in the primary school law. With this new provision, Enhedslisten wants to give the citizens of a school district the opportunity to participate in deciding whether to close their local primary school. This must be done by a local vote among the residents of the school district. Let me start by saying that the government cannot support the proposal. When you as parents choose to put your child in the local primary school, this is based on many different considerations. It can, for example, be done. be because you yourself once went to school, it may be because the comrades from kindergarten also have to start there, or it may be because it is safe and convenient to go to the local school where all the classmates live nearby, and you have an experience that it is a good and well-functioning school. Each time a school closes, it has major consequences for both parents and students. This creates uncertainty and insecurity, for what is the alternative? What will happen to my child's schooling now? As Enhedslisten states in the proposal, it can also affect the community if a school is closed. People get upset the way you want to do when there are changes in your immediate environment over which you are not master. There are many feelings at stake when a school closes and with good reason. That is precisely why I do not think that many citizens will be able to vote in favour of their local school closing down, regardless of whether there are serious considerations behind such a decision. In Denmark, the municipal council is responsible for running the schools in the municipality, and the municipal council is responsible for ensuring that there is a good and coherent school structure in their municipality. There are many considerations and many elements involved when the municipal council has to make the important and serious decision, that is, to close a school. It can, for example, be done. be local wishes, priorities and needs in relation to the school system, including, inter alia: educational and professional considerations. It can be the development of the number of children in the municipality, life in the community and, not least, balance in the municipal economy. It is important to say that municipalities must, of course, always pay attention to local demand before deciding to close a school. Does it significantly affect community cohesion if the school closes? Are there too many who will get very long transportation time? And do children's opportunities for sports or other leisure pursuits suffer? All of this is important to keep an eye on. When you stand as future parents or toddlers and have to choose a place to live, it is also an important factor that you know that there is a school nearby and that this will be there for a number of years to come. All this is an important municipal responsibility, and local politicians are therefore also very concerned about their local area and do not wear blinds. They must listen to the citizens and their wishes. Moreover, there are already rules which require local authorities to involve citizens in decisions to abolish a primary school. You should use them well. In addition, there is nothing in the primary school law to prevent the municipal authorities of each municipality from allowing the citizens of a school district to vote in a local indicative vote before the municipal council decides to close the school. The municipal councils have the overall overview of the local wishes, priorities, needs and considerations which may be relevant to involve when the municipality has to organise an appropriate school structure. In the past, there have been rules for a referendum on school closures, but they were abolished in the late 1980s in order to give municipalities greater freedom to manage expenditure flexibly in accordance with local conditions. Therefore, the government considers that it should continue to be the municipal council that makes the final decision to close a school. If a municipal council wants to close down a primary school, the proposal must be sent to public consultation and the school boards of the schools concerned must be consulted at the same time. This is a good system, which in the vast majority of cases will ensure the best decision-making in the local areas, because, regardless of what, a school closure will always send shock waves through a local community, and that is precisely why closure should not be decided on the basis of emotions, but on the basis of common sense and serious reasons, such as: economics and a comprehensive look at what the students in the municipality need and what the parents want. I would like to thank the Enhedslisten for the motion for a resolution, which could give rise to a good debate on local self-government and local democracy. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324104626	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324104632	Thank you for the Minister's speech. When we have tabled the proposal, it is primarily due to the consideration of children that this should always be the case when talking about the school but also, to a very large extent, the consideration of local communities. Does the Minister not agree that it actually has a strong self-enhancing effect when closing the local school and that the movement away from the smaller communities is significantly reinforced when closing the school? Is it not a very good reason, not only for the sake of children, but also for the sake of our entire rural policy and local communities, to do something new to maintain the local school?
ParlaMint-DK_20170324104716	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324104718	It is absolutely true that a school is one of the factors that is extremely important for the sustainability of local communities and their ability to act as entities. It is therefore also my expectation that the municipal councils will take this seriously into account when deciding to close a school. The school is one of the elements that makes the community work. However, as I said in my speech, this is a municipal decision, and there may be cases where there is no pupil basis for continuing a school, and a municipal council sometimes has to make the heavy decision to close a school.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324104804	Sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324104805	Is it not a contradiction that today we have legislation which means that if a group of parents, on the basis of a closure of a local primary school, wants to continue running school in private, that is possible? In fact, it is hardly possible to prevent it. I don't think it should be. Is there not a contradiction in the fact that a small circle of parents for public funds can continue school, as long as it is private, but if a majority of all the voters who live in a given school district believe that you should continue primary school, there is no legal basis for this? Isn't there a strange contrast between being able to maintain a school as a private school and that of many, the majority of the population, inability to maintain a primary school? Isn't that crooked?
ParlaMint-DK_20170324104858	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324104859	That is certainly true, as Mr. Jakob Silverhøj says that it is a pattern that can be seen in some rural areas where you have come to close a school, but where there has still been a student base. Sometimes it happens that parents go together to do a free school or private school. It's a pattern you can see around the country. Therefore, it is also very important, when the municipalities have to make decisions about school structure, that they assess whether there is still a student base and take it into account in their deliberations.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324104933	Thank you. Then we need to get to work on the rapporteur's line, and that is Mrs Annette Lind, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324104943	Thank you. B 57 is about local referendums on school attendance. The Enhedslisten will require the Folketing to introduce a provision into the primary school law that allows the citizens of a school district to decide on the termination of a primary school by a local vote among the residents of a school district. Nowadays, it is the municipal council that decides whether or not to close a school. As Enhedslisten writes, from 2006 to 2016, almost 300 primary schools have been closed. Of course, we also have a concern about this, which is why we also have great sympathy that Enhedslisten will keep the public schools around the country, so we have a finely masked network of primary schools throughout the country so that it can be the natural first choice for parents. And it is also important for us in the Social Democratic Party that we have primary schools in all neighbourhoods. What's up here is that if there's 50 percent. It can be obtained from the voters in a school district who request a referendum, and there must be a 60-percent majority decision in order to maintain a primary school. As I started by saying, it is today the municipal council that has the right to close down a primary school. S welcomes local selfgovernment and therefore believes that in future it should also be the case that municipal councils should have the power to maintain or terminate a school. With those comments, S cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324105115	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti. Was there a brief comment? But I think we're just gonna jump over it, because you have to push in when you want the word, or it's gonna go crazy from up here. Here you go, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324105132	Thank you. The great thing about sitting in the Folketing is that you learn something every day you're in here, and when I read this motion for a resolution, I learned something. For example, I was... I do not know that before 1988 this was the opportunity to issue a local referendum on school closure in a school district. And I'm really grateful to Enhedslisten for informing us about that, so thank you for that. We are also relatively positive about the proposal. The basis of the Danish People's Party has always been to involve the citizens as much as possible. So as a starting point, we are positive. As I read the motion for a resolution, we are also open to entering into a debate, possibly making a report where we can write our way out of things. For as I read the proposal, it is not quite firm in the flesh that one is open and I see that the rapporteur nods. I have been in Switzerland for three months on educational leave and have seen down there what good local referendums are. And this is done at all levels at municipal level, at cantonal level, at national level and even at university level. This has led, for example, to a reduction in working hours. is very little politician-led in Switzerland, and citizens are very much involved. I am not sure that in Switzerland district referendums on school closures may be due to the fact that there are many municipalities in Switzerland. There are about 2,300 municipalities in a country with 8.3 million inhabitants. The smallest municipality is 13 citizens, so there is no point in having a school district. That may, of course, be one of the explanations. Another explanation may also be that you see the municipality as a unit where the schools then fall under that unit, and then it does not make sense that you have local district referendums. But that is something we can clarify in the committee's examination of the proposal. I also read the motion for a resolution somewhat as a concern for free schools, private schools, in other words to prevent too many free schools coming. As a starting point, the Danish People's Party welcomes free schools, private schools and primary schools. But, of course, we can clarify that in the course of the debate. The last thing I would like to draw your attention to is that next week the Danish People's Party will be tabling a resolution on binding municipal referendums, and the rapporteur cannot know where there will also be the possibility of electoral initiatives, which this proposal is actually about; it is, of course, a local electoral initiative in a small district. We really want to give citizens the opportunity to do so at local level, including, for example: also school closures. And there we can talk about whether it was not also an opportunity instead of a separate decision on local district referendums, perhaps to extend it to binding municipal referendums, as is the case in the proposal that the Danish People's Party will present in the Chamber. That will certainly be put forward next week. But the Enhedslisten's rapporteur can just think about that and you don't have to answer it right now. But as a starting point, the Danish People's Party is in any case very positive about involving citizens more. Whether this is exactly what the motion for a resolution says, I cannot say, but we are very positive about it and would like to enter into a closer discussion with the Enhedslisten in the committee procedure. And then we have to see how far we can go about the proposal and then be part of the discussion on binding municipal referendums that we will be putting forward next week. But thanks for the suggestion I have learned, and it was very exciting to read about that opportunity; I had no idea you could do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324105557	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments and the next rapporteur is Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324105607	Thank you to the Enhedslisten for raising the debate here in Parliament today. As previous rapporteurs have also mentioned, this is a debate which deals with the possibility of local referendums in connection with school attendance. First of all, however, let me stress that we in the Left cannot support the resolution. I must also say that some of what we in the Left are at least focusing on is to ensure that we have a world-class primary school which will, of course, help to equip our children and young people for education and to give them skills so that they can get through life well. The Danish primary school's core task is also typically based on something that is locally anchored, and I would also like to say to Enhedslisten's rapporteur that some of what I personally have been close to are the battles that are often taken in the community to ensure the preservation of their school. I have personally witnessed several school closures in my own large circle, and that is by no means pleasant, because there are often many emotions involved. It affects the students and parents, and I have also experienced that even the grandparents have engaged in the struggle to maintain a local school. So it is of course of great importance, both for the individual family and indeed for local communities. In Denmark, however, we also have a tradition of freedom for the municipalities; we have municipal autonomy, and in the area of primary school the responsibility lies precisely with the municipalities when it comes to the individual schools, including the responsibility for creating the most appropriate school structure and, hopefully, also for the joy and benefit of the community as a whole. It seems to me that the municipal councils around the country are doing their best to assess things, and we know about someone that when you take up such a big task as it may be to look at the school structure, you have to be relaxed. Of course, every possible effort must be made to involve both the staff of the local school, but indeed also the citizens who live in the local area. The closure of a primary school requires involvement and a democratic debate, and I have to say that I think that by far, by far, most of the municipalities I know do it in a very good and good way. With those words, I can say again that the Left is against the resolution, and then I have just promised to greet the Conservatives and say that they are also against the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324105929	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324105933	I fully share the rapporteur's view on the importance of municipal autonomy. I think it is a right principle that we must uphold. However, there are some areas where we have restricted municipal autonomy, and that is precisely in the area of school. For those parents who are in the situation we are talking about here, where a local primary school is closed, there is a legal requirement to be able to set up a free school with public subsidies. And since it is now the case that local selfgovernment has already been challenged, why is it that the rapporteur believes that a small or larger group of parents can take a private initiative for public funds, while a majority of the local electorate in the school district cannot take such an initiative? Isn't there a strange contradiction in our legislation here?
ParlaMint-DK_20170324110025	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324110027	In other words, the rapporteur is right to say that when you put it up like this, it is true that a larger or smaller parent group can choose, for example. after the abandonment of a primary school, to create their own free school. I must then still hold on to the fact that it is one of the things that I personally think is important to protect and we in the Left also think that the parents have the right to start a new school. And I must say that I know what needs to be done in terms of combat and, for that matter, also in terms of strong resources in order to achieve the objective of such a task. This is not something that you will just get in place in a week or 14 days, but I still think it is important that you have that right when it comes to free schools.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324110120	Sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324110123	I do not dispute that right either, I would like to emphasise. It was only the strange fact that the majority of the electorate do not have the same right. Last year a report from the University of Southern Denmark was published which dealt with school conditions in Tønder, and I am not going to be an expert on school conditions in Tønder, I would just like to say that right away. However, I note that the conclusion is that a number of the school closures that took place in Tønder were largely due to a decrease in local children's numbers. That's logic. On the other hand, it was also highly self-enhancing, so that it increased the relocation from the areas concerned. If the solution suggested by the Enhedslisten is not the right one, what is the rapporteur's suggestion as to how we can prevent school closures from leading to rural depopulation?
ParlaMint-DK_20170324110214	Thank you. Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324110216	I myself live in a small community with about 300 households, and I can say that a few years ago we took the fight to preserve our school, and fortunately it is still there. I know that this may be something that we politicians may have a little difficulty in interfering with, but I would say that I believe that ensuring the local school is very closely linked to the fact that local attention is constantly being focused on attracting new citizens and, for that matter, developing the whole community and, ultimately, also ensuring that more children are added so that the school does not close for that reason.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324110258	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324110309	There are many, many good arguments for decentralisation and local self-determination. I do not want to go through all of them, but it is generally something that makes civil society stronger, and I am very much in favour of that. I have not yet heard any rapporteur who was opposed to strengthening civil society, nor do I believe that anyone will appear during the debate on this motion for a resolution. It is also the case that local referendums can strengthen the legitimacy of political decisions. Among other things, it has. Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen pointed out in relation to Switzerland, and that is quite true. However, we must also bear in mind what Mrs Anni Matthiesen has just pointed out, namely that a sharp election campaign in a local community is, in fact, something that can create a great deal of division. So there is both an argument for which legitimacy is at stake, and then there is an argument that is somewhat more problematic in relation to the deep and prolonged division that a sharpening of a conflict can create. However, when, on the whole, we cannot support the proposal, even though we have a positive attitude towards decentralisation, it is because it is based on a very unhealthy principle. If the proposal were to become a reality, it would be possible for the citizens of a municipality to impose costs without any funding being given. And that is, in my view, a very, very dangerous principle. I believe that a decision to incur an expense must be linked to the authorisation of financing, and that is, of course, the result of such an essential definition of what policy is at all. After all, politics is to distribute scarce resources in a way that citizens see as legitimate. And what is being proposed in the proposal is that citizens should be given the opportunity to benefit resources without taking into account the fact that these resources are scarce. It is therefore a rather dangerous slope, and it is a path on which Danish policy must be very, very careful, for reasons of principle, to enter. That is why, as has already been said, the Liberal Alliance cannot support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324110541	Thank you. Sir. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324110546	I do not think this is a simple issue. It's nice when everything is light and logical. I think it is complicated and, in fact, I share the view that it may be a problem if a citizens' group in the individual area of a municipality can make decisions that generate extra costs for the community. I think that is a real problem. But why is it not a problem if it is the case that parents generate extra costs for a municipality when setting up a free school? I do not sense that it is the rapporteur's view that that possibility should be closed down. I do not think so myself, but is it not exactly the same problem that we are facing?
ParlaMint-DK_20170324110629	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324110633	Sir. Jakob Silverhøj is so laudablely honest to recognise that there are some differences in many situations, and I do so here too. I therefore agree with what Mrs Anni Matthiesen said on a similar issue, but the benefits that a civil society has in going through the whole process of creating a school, I simply think it is so great that I think it comes to the advantage of the present system.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324110704	Sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324110707	I believe that some or perhaps the very central strength of the small local schools is that they form a community for all the children who are in a given society. It is of infinite importance. It's my experience, I don't have statistical evidence for it, but it's my experience that when free schools are formed, there is a certain division of the children. There is great enthusiasm among some that parents want to pay, there is less enthusiasm among others who cannot or will not pay. Isn't there the difference between maintaining a public school and setting up a free school, that when the free school is set up and still not a bad word about it, a certain division of children is created while, if you keep the local primary school, you also retain the common school for all children? Doesn't it have a special value?
ParlaMint-DK_20170324110800	Here you go, sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324110802	The answer I give now is certainly not to be polemical, but I simply believe that free schools and communities are so different that it is very difficult to say anything about it. May I just say that I live in the neighbouring municipality of Tønder Municipality, which was discussed before, and I knew the late mayor, Laurids Rudebeck. He thought it was a very heavy decision to close these schools, but he said that the prize had been a healthy economy in the municipality. After all, these are also the sort of balances that you sit with in a municipality.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324110831	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324110840	I am filling in for our education rapporteur and will make her speech here: we will start by signing up for the good proposal that we believe can strengthen local democracy and open up a good dynamic between representativeness and more direct forms of democracy in the municipalities. Such a democracy approach, we believe, can contribute to a greater civil ownership of public institutions such as local schools. The proposal seeks to address a problem relating to the closure of schools. Nowadays, some communities choose to open a free school together, but not everyone has the resources to do so, and in this light, we believe that a debate may be needed in committee on this issue. It is important that the drafting of the proposal takes into account different conditions for organising and making its voice heard in the local community. In the alternative, we believe that the trend towards centralisation affects many more areas than only local schools, and that is why we want the proposal to be extended to local public institutions more generally. It might as well be kindergarten or crèches we're talking about here. And so a democratic organisation will have good conditions in all areas. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324111008	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Marianne Jelved, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324111014	Thank you. The last five years, from 2011 until now, 161 primary schools have been closed in 47 municipalities, and the main reason in the municipalities concerned has been that there has been a decline in the number of children • the number of children has fallen by almost 13,000 since 2011 and to this day. I'll use Hjørring as an example. I am elected in Hjørringkirden and know the municipality very well. Twelve schools are closed. I think it's the county in the country that's closed most schools. You have a mayor, a Social Democrat, and he says in all elections that he cannot guarantee that schools will not be closed • On the contrary, he can promise that schools will be closed because the number of children is falling so much. He gets a huge choice every time, and he doesn't hide anything. Four village schools have been closed in the municipality and three free schools or small schools have been established, one in each of the three municipalities. I would say that the way the mayor and the political environment are in the municipality of Hjørring means that there is openness about this. It is not surprising to parents that school closures are taking place. In the 2015 election campaign I was invited to a school at the edge of a larger municipality in Midtjylland. People were gathered there and they wanted a country politician to come and they didn't care which party they came from, as long as they got someone to discuss with them, because they were furious. The school at which the meeting was held was a small school in the municipality and they had only been informed that the school would be closed the day after the deadline for applying to set up a new small school was exceeded. It made them even more furious that it had been kept secret over the summer, so they demanded citizens' meetings. A citizens' meeting was arranged with the following structure: café tables were set up, and there were two council members standing at each of the café tables, and then the citizens had to wait in line to come and talk to the local politicians with whom they would prefer to speak. And that was the debate that then remained there. I am just using this as an example in a way that I find very unpleasant, so that it is so difficult for citizens and politicians to talk to each other about vulnerable and sensitive things like the school structure in a municipality. However, there is no other way, and I am strongly in favour of involving citizens, including in this planning. Municipal politicians have to say why they choose to do what they do and involve the citizens in that discussion and allow the citizens to help offer what they can do instead of closing schools, for example. But the worst thing is to pretend that you have not made a decision, and then you reveal it at some point when it is a long way off. I do not think we can be familiar with this in a country such as Denmark. And that is why I am a little tempted by the motion for a resolution tabled by the Enhedslisten. I am a little tempted by it, but I would like to try another way first, before I see the cross in terms of participating in referendums on it, and that is to try to raise the debate on how to involve citizens in the daily work of a municipality, especially when citizens themselves feel that they are so strongly affected by the decision that the municipal council feels it is necessary for them to make. So the involvement of the citizens, yes. However, I am not sure that referendums are the right model at present. But you can have them as a threat to the municipalities to make them recognise their responsibility to enter into dialogue with their citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324111359	Thank you to Mrs Marianne Jelved. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324111414	Thank you. In SF we really think that this is both an interesting and creative proposal that Enhedslisten has found out from the saves, because it is a proposal based on some legislation that you have had before before I was born, I have to say that. On the one hand, I think it is an important proposal because we have a real problem. One real problem is that we see some rural areas becoming more and more depopulated because of a combination where it has become harder to buy houses out there, it is harder to borrow for a house, and there are many shops that close out there, but also schools. And how do you solve it? I think this is an interesting answer to that. The second real challenge is that there will be more private schools and, as SFs, I actually think it is a pity when there are fewer and fewer children who are part of our common school system and more who go to a private and free school. So how do you solve it? There is then a proposal here to make local referendums and, as a starting point, I am in favour of local referendums because it promotes local democracy and gives participation to some people who might otherwise not have been consulted. But I have some things that I think are important to clarify, and also some things that I, as a former Councillor, think I have to travel. When you have such a referendum on a school closure, will it always be the child's best interests that are at the forefront? Will it always be the school and the school's welfare that are in focus? I have helped close schools, including schools where there were no other schools again, where the number of pupils was so low that it simply could not be defended as a council member in my optics to leave that school open and where there was a small group of parents who wanted it open and where we did not hear anything from the others in the local area. But if we had made a referendum there, what would that vote have ended? Didn't the local area say yes? Yes, they did, but if it had been based on what the individual student needed and what the individual school benefited from? I may have that concern because I am very concerned that it is always the students who are in the focus. I also think that one way or another, and I think that one can get KL and the municipalities involved in this legislative process, because I actually think it's real and it sounds so systemic when you say that we have municipal autonomy and we have to preserve it. After all, we must not maintain local self-government for the sake of self-government. We have to do this because it is good that we have local urban roots that know more about what it looks like in reality. I would like to enter into a dialogue with them, but I think that the cat lady who is talking about being able to make the same decision after a choice, if needed, is interesting. So I would like to engage in a dialogue with the municipalities. The last challenge is the economy of this, not that it costs something, but the economy of, if there is a referendum on a school closure, the city council has decided that this one must close, there is perhaps so low a student's number that the school is really expensive, or ultimately, if the money follows the pupil, that there is really little money to do teaching for the city and a majority then decides in the referendum to keep the school open, what is it for an education that the pupils should receive until a new future city council elections? Is it so scraped because there is not enough money in the local area, and there are some municipalities that are under pressure here that we cannot be familiar with this teaching? At least I think we have to consider that too. The rapporteur behind the proposal asked what could be done about this, and there I think our party agrees that 1) can ensure that the primary school generally has a better economy and 2) that more equal conditions can also be created between private schools and primary schools. I also think that we should work towards this. So all in all, I am in favour of it because it contains local democracy, because it can help solve some problems in rural areas, but I also have some points to which I think I should have answers in committee and which I think are interesting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324111828	Thank you. There are no brief comments. And then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324111843	Thank you for the many positive comments on the proposal. With the motion for a resolution, in the Enhedslisten, we want to give citizens better opportunities to maintain the local primary school. In the questions I have put to some of the rapporteurs, I have said that it is for the sake of children and parents in local communities, but that it is also very much because the local primary school is helping to maintain the possibility of a functioning local community, which is being seriously weakened if children's families move away and if it becomes impossible to attract new ones. I would also like to stress that this is not a proposal that we should do so on the basis of the comments that have been made. definition cannot close local primary schools. In other words, there will undoubtedly be professional and factual reasons in some municipalities for doing so, but it can be said that this proposal challenges at least the majority who wish to close a primary school, so that there are great demands on the argument in order to close it. And perhaps, if it comes to a school closure, the parents are very well placed in terms of the formulation of the wish that at least there should be set up, for example. Very good transport opportunities from the local community and into the nearest school so that it will not have devastating consequences for the local community. So this, at least in the first place, excludes the possibility of closing a local primary school if the population does not want it. But it will be possible to implement it for a subsequent period. The development we have seen in relation to the free school area may be divided. I would say that I fully understand that parents in a community where you close school are taking an initiative themselves, but there is therefore a problem with it. There was a television broadcast on TV 2 here 3-4 months ago, which undoubtedly produced two parent groups who were really excited that they had now managed to maintain the local school, but it snuck into a couple of bee notes that there were also just some children who didn't come because their parents didn't want it or couldn't pay for the private school. In the context of setting up a free school, we will have the problem that what was the starting point, namely to take as a starting point special values and educational attitudes which the parents found of particular value, is changed to make the free school a rescue plan for the parents who can afford it, while, on the other hand, it is not a rescue plan for the parents who cannot afford to buy a place for their child in a free school. We therefore move the whole point of departure for forming free schools from being something based on attitudes and pedagogy, to being a rescue plan in a situation where the municipality will not pay the cost of running school in the community. I think what we are proposing is clear enough. It's something that's existed before. I'm glad to hear that Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen has learned something new from our proposal, and I admit that I did, too, when I was working on that right must be right. However, we have had such an element in our primary school legislation that has ensured a local democracy until 1988. It may have been the waves of municipal reform in 1970 that have frightened some, so they have thought that if we are to have a new one of this kind and we got that, then we should make sure that there is not such a tedious provision that gives citizens too good an opportunity to pull on the emergency brake. So I can easily understand the reason why you have done it, but I just think it is wrong. And not least, I think it is wrong in a situation where we have an opportunity to set up schools locally, just not in public. Finally, I would like to thank all the rapporteurs. I would like to say that these are the issues, sir. Jacob Mark travels, I think I'm factual and well-founded. I just don't think we get around the fact that there can be an economic aspect to this generating some extra costs for a municipality. I believe that this must be taken into account; that is the price of the proposal. And to Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, I would like to thank you for your very positive comments, and I think that there may well be grounds for further discussion on how to cut this. And I have to confirm that this has been deliberately made as an open proposal for what was the right way to legislate in 1988, of course, does not have to be what has to be found from words to words in new legislation in this area. That is why we have deliberately devised the idea of allowing the local primary school to be maintained, that is to say, to carry it forward, without necessarily wanting to restore to the smallest letter the legislation as it was 30 years ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324112421	Thank you. Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left, has a brief comment to make.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324112428	I would actually like to take this opportunity to ask the Enhedslisten's rapporteur a little more about where the Enhedslisten is actually holding this resolution. For I am thinking: what if one imagines a situation in which a local community is struggling to maintain their local primary school, but where perhaps there are only 50-60 pupils in the school and where the majority of the inhabitants of the city may belong to the older generation? In a referendum, people then decide that they want to keep the school, even if you can see that it is not for the greatest benefit to the children. Are there no worries at Enhedslisten that you might harm the children, that is, the students? I can easily see that a school is important to maintain a local anchoring place in local communities, but is there no concern on the part of the rapporteur that children will then suffer?
ParlaMint-DK_20170324112535	Sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324112539	Yes, there will be. In other words, it will be a dilemma, and we need to shed some light on it very carefully at local level. After all, we had a debate here a year ago on schools in the small islands, and surely we have the same problem: does it make sense to run primary school for 29 pupils in a smaller island community from a rational point of view? No. But from the children's perspective? Perhaps because it may be possible to set up a reasonable school, and that is certainly a perspective that could be called: after all, it offers a better opportunity to run a proper school for children than the fact that they have to be transported over long distances. So I do not think it is simple and I think that in the local debate we need to consider carefully: what are the disadvantages in terms of professional and factual aspects of the day-to-day education of children, and what does it mean that there can be huge transport times and that we can really drive a depopulation of a local community further? So no, I don't think there's anything ready, ready, answer this, but you have to analyze it very thoroughly locally to find the right answers right there.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324112649	Thank you. Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324112654	Yeah, and that's why I'm thinking that it can almost be dangerous... understand me right... to make the possibility of a referendum. In other words, I would like to say that I listened to Mrs Marianne Jelved's speech, and there I thought it would be a better way to go in order to make sure that there is an open dialogue with the people as well. Then you can also see the disadvantages of maintaining school, i.e. if the quality of the school and the economy at school would be so poor that the children are actually affected in the end. I would just like to make a comment on that so that I can hear what the Enhedslisten's rapporteur thinks about it. Because I can be nervous that if you say a referendum, we risk that it is the children who will actually be the hostages.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324112738	Sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324112741	I am not dismissive of the fact that there is a problem. I'm just thinking that's exactly the problem we have today. There is the possibility of establishing the local school, it is just assigned to a smaller or a larger circle of parents who can, of course, have the resources of the municipality by making a decision just within the parent circle. And this can lead to disadvantages for the economy of a school, because then you cannot make classes where you get sufficiently high in the class quotient at the neighbouring school, and then it can lead to a closure problem. So I fully understand that there is a problem. I just think that when we have provided parents with an emergency handle in the form of free school legislation, it would be right to have a similar emergency brake on the majority of a local electoral population, so that they have a tool to fight to maintain a local school.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324112833	Thank you. No one else has asked for the floor. That concludes the debate. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Education Committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324112855	The debate is open, and that is the Minister for Education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324112903	The Enhedslisten, with B60, has proposed that before the end of October 2017, the government should submit legislative proposals on shortening the long school days introduced by the reform of the primary school from 2013. Let me start by stating that the government cannot support the proposal. With the motion for a resolution, the Enhedslisten wishes to leave the decision on the length of the school day to the individual municipal council. According to the proposal, the municipalities must continue to grant the schools economics corresponding to the number of hours laid down in the primary school law. A municipal council must be able to choose to reduce the actual teaching time. The length of school days has been widely debated here in the hall, in the media, on social media, in classrooms and around the Danish homes. It's important that school day works. The school days of the primary schools must first of all provide pupils with knowledge and education, which must be a high degree of professionalism and well-being in all schools. I would like to make that clear. And it is important that elements such as open school and movement work and make sense in teaching. The aim of the reform of primary school is for pupils to become skilled and thrive, and for the differences between the very skilled and the less skilled to be reduced. We must deliver this, and we must work consistently on the elements of the reform in order to achieve the results we want and hope for. The government does not believe that this is at present the basis for changing the rules on the length of school day, but I would like to make it clear that the political intention of the reform of primary school is that the school day is at 1 p.m. 8-14 for the smallest students, approx. 8:00 p.m. 8-14.30 for the middle and the middle. 8-15 for the oldest students. And it is not the intention that individual schools should plan school days that are systematically longer than that. It is primarily the responsibility of the municipalities and schools to organise a school day for the pupils so that they receive good education and have good children's and leisure life. It is important that children can still go to badminton or scout or just build caves and play with each other completely outside the school. This is possible within the current framework, and it is possible in many places. I would like to take this opportunity to call on the municipalities to make use of the opportunities already provided by section 16b of the National School Act and to shorten the school day where there is considered to be a specific need. But having said that, we can certainly learn more about whether there could be other ways of organizing the school day so that the students continue to learn what they have to do while they thrive. That is why I will shortly be inviting schools to participate in a framework attempt. The framework attempt must provide us with knowledge as to whether the school day can be organised in a different way and more flexibly, without compromising on the intentions of the reform. I look forward to following these attempts out at the schools that sign up for the experiment and, above all, I look forward to learning more from the experiences of the schools. I would like to thank the Enhedslisten for the motion for a resolution. It is important that we regularly debate the primary school and the framework around it, and above all it is important that we ensure that primary school is primary school, a school where knowledge, professionalism, education, well-being and movement are paramount. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324113226	Thank you very much to the Minister. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Jakob Silverhøj from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324113233	There are several reasons why the reform of primary schools is not very popular among children and teachers. One of them is that the reform of primary schools was financed by cutting down sharply during the teachers' preparation time. Does the Minister not think it is a fundamental problem that there has been such a deterioration in the possibilities for preparation? Does this not impair the quality of teaching? And do we not have to re-establish in one way or another a better opportunity for teachers to prepare for teaching?
ParlaMint-DK_20170324113311	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324113314	The attitudes to the reform of primary school and its elements are not necessarily the same across different groups. Sir. Jakob Silverhøj in this motion for a resolution connects the teachers' working time with the content of the primary school. You can make that clutch, but it's not a clutch that I want to work with a lot. Firstly, because teachers' working hours are not at all on my table, and secondly because I think it is important that we can talk about quality in school without having to discuss teachers' working time at the same time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324113400	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324113404	Since the primary school reform was introduced and the long school days entered into force in the summer of 2014, thousands of children have been registered out of the local school break schemes, including quite a few of the local clubs. This is because the relationship between a towering parental fee and a very short SFO time is probably pushing many parents to take their children out. Isn't that a very big problem that we need to address? And isn't it a problem that the municipalities that choose to use section 16b of the National School Act to shorten the school day also generate economics to extend the opening hours of school freetime arrangements?
ParlaMint-DK_20170324113455	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324113458	Thank you. One of the very first things I did when I became a minister was to initiate a study on the quality of the SFOs. The reason for this is, in fact, a dialogue I have had with Enhedslisten and the Alternative about exposed children and the framework for them. That is why I have chosen to initiate a study which will have to say something about whether something is happening that we cannot be happy with or satisfied with in relation to the SFOs. So that study is under way and hopefully will show whether there are any quality challenges and some children being squeezed, because then we need to know.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324113544	Mrs. Annette Lind, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324113547	Thank you very much. I must admit that I cannot really hear what the Minister really means. On the one hand, she says that she supports the length of the school day. On the other hand, we do agree with the conciliation circle and, as I have said, the minister is sitting at the table in the conciliation circle now, on the other hand, she says that we need to shorten the school day, following an attempt that has been made. Recently, some key actors sent a very critical letter to the Minister about the length of school day and believe that the Minister is disturbing in the area of primary school. Can the Minister understand that people out there and key players think that she causes unrest about the primary school when she speaks so differently about the length of school day?
ParlaMint-DK_20170324113631	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324113634	There has actually been a lot of unrest about the primary school for a number of years. I think some of the actors in primary school have experienced this. What I have to do is to calm down the primary school and ensure that we achieve the objectives and elements of the reform of the primary school. So I'm going to work with that completely purpose: that school day works, that primary school works and that the people who are in schools work in schools, the parents who deliver children to schools, feel that it is their school, and that the children are in a framework that is experienced as safe and quiet.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324113716	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324113721	The request made by the actors is, of course, directed directly at the Minister, because it is the Minister who is causing concern about the primary school. This is an important difference in relation to the debate that has otherwise taken place on primary school. Recently, we were in the Chamber asking what the Minister would do, and the Minister said in an answer that there is no intention of doing anything separate in order to bring about calm in the area of primary education. Does the Minister maintain that she does not want to create peace and does not want to do anything separately to calm things down in the light of the fact that they have actually received very critical letters from these organizations?
ParlaMint-DK_20170324113758	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324113802	There has been a lot of unrest about the primary school in recent years, too, which has been more violent than a letter is. The letter I have received says, among other things, that a number of organisations are concerned that the objectives of the reform of primary school should be met and that the elements should be better brought into play today. I fully agree with that and am therefore very pleased to have received that letter. And my expectation is that it's about the professional content of the reform and of the public school we have to meet to create a better school day for the children and quiet right into the classroom.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324113846	Thank you to the Minister for Education. Then we go to the rapporteurs and we start from the top, namely with Mrs Annette Lind from the Social Democratic Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324113856	Thank you. In this resolution we are going to talk about the length of school day. Let me make it clear that I think it is very, very regrettable that we should talk about the length of school day and help to disturb it, and that we should not talk about the varied teaching about the content and well-being of the teaching itself. With this motion for a resolution, the Enhedslisten wishes to leave the decision on the length of the school day to the individual municipal council. One must be able to reduce actual teaching hours by perhaps 5 hours a week. And it is true that when we introduced the new framework for primary school, a consensus circle wanted us to have a more varied education. That is why I would much rather talk about the varied teaching, rather than keep talking about the length of the school day. As I said just now when I asked the Minister, it is true that there are a number of actors around the primary school who have asked us here in the Danish Parliament to talk about the varied teaching and not question whether the school day should be shorter. If you reduce the school day by 5 hours a week, then you remove the possibility of the varied teaching; you remove movement, professional immersion and the open school. I cannot understand that this is the intention of the Enhedslisten, because it is precisely the case that when you cannot remove the professional classes, you will be left with precisely Danish and mathematics and English and the natural subjects, and then I am sure, yes, I think it can be problematic and very monotonous for very many students to go to school. There were far too many pupils who, before the new framework for primary school came, were not able to take an upper secondary education because they could not read and write enough. That is why we wanted to have a new and different primary school where it varied and where the supporting teaching filled a great deal. We want to be involved in this discussion, and I actually believe that Enhedslisten would like to be involved in discussing this, but we are not doing it this way by just making school days shorter. I have also spoken to the Danish Sports Association and have close contact with Danish School Sport and many other actors around the primary school, and they would very much like to talk about the varied teaching instead of talking about whether we should have a shorter day. I'm sure I know that Enhedslisten is very concerned about making a good primary school, and we agree that we should have a primary school as the supporter of our society. At the same time, it is in the conciliation circle that decisions are made, and with such a resolution you do not actually come much longer. What you're gonna do with this is to get upset again... what the KL and many actors are actually asking us not to do. So this is an invitation to join the conciliation circle and discuss it there, because that's where the decisions can be made. In view of this, we cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324114159	It challenged Enhedslisten's rapporteur, so Mr. Jakob Silverhøj has a brief comment to make.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324114205	Thanks for inviting me. I therefore agree with the rapporteur that it would be nice if we could discuss the content of the school to a greater extent. In my view, there are many problems with the reform of primary schools. Does the rapporteur not recognise that you have a huge problem when the vast majority of the country's teachers believe that the reform has brought together a school day which means that it is almost impossible for them to get the day together because they have funded the long school days with a deterioration in their preparation time? Does the rapporteur not even recognise that there is a problem? Are we just gonna keep it to death? So, what's going on?
ParlaMint-DK_20170324114256	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324114258	I think there are different problems in this. I have no doubt that the framework we have set for the new primary school is right. The varied teaching is the right one. With this motion for a resolution, the diversity of education is necessarily eliminated. That is what happens if, for example, you do. removes 5 hours a week out there. I think we should clearly discuss the teacher's relationship. This is also something to be done in the Danish model. After all, it is the social partners who are going to have to discuss these things very far along the way. I would really like to share in discussing the situation and am in close contact with the Danish Teacher's Association. But this is all about the fact that if you take hours away from primary school, it's the varied teaching. I really, really believe that. I very much believe that movement is good for the students. It's a different school day that's not just professional.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324114354	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324114356	It might be interesting to hear how the rapporteur will provide the financial means to give teachers better preparation time. The problem is, of course, that the long school days are financed with something equivalent to a billionth of teachers' working hours. This is how the economy was provided. Is it to be understood that if we do not want to shorten the long school days, the rapporteur will otherwise provide the billions needed to enable teachers to have a preparatory period similar to that which they had before the legal intervention of L 409?
ParlaMint-DK_20170324114435	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324114436	I must admit that I think the author of the Enhedslisten is mixing apples and pears together. After all, the social partners are the ones who take care of how many hours a teacher must, for example. teaching. I can see that in this resolution it is the case that Enhedslisten will give the less money to teach back to the teachers' preparation. But it is not up to us to decide this way. I'm not sure KL will help the teachers just teach fewer hours by taking them away from the students. I think it is a high price to pay to take the varied education from primary school. I'd like to share in discussing the teacher's relationship. I talk to the Danish Teacher Association a lot. This is just mixing things up.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324114523	I mean, the questioner's got two rounds. We're not dispensing today, so there won't be a third round. So we thank Mrs Annette Lind and welcome Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324114544	Thank you. In many ways, this is a friendly motion for a resolution. It is also a sympathetic proposal. The goal is that the students shouldn't have these long school days. We can actually be friendly in the Danish People's Party about this. When we went to primary school reform negotiations, the starting points were 8 to 14. We were somewhat terrified when we saw that the Socialist-led government would have a school week of as much as 37 hours. So, after a long fight over seven months, we negotiated it down with, among other things. assistance from the Conservatives and finally also the Left to 35 hours for the education and 30 and 33 hours for the schooling and intermediate stages respectively. After all, our challenge is to get the municipalities to live up to what we have decided, i.e. these 30, 33 and 35 hours. So there are a number of municipalities that have had difficulty with this. That is why the conciliation circle has joined forces, among others. former Minister of Education. We have simply told the KL and the municipalities that this is not going to work. They must live up to what we have asked them to do, to the intention and to the primary school agreement. Studies have been followed up, not just one, but two, so we know about where we stand. So there were a number of municipalities that could not comply with it. There were some practical reasons for this. For example: Some rural municipalities simply did not have buses that could bring the students home quickly enough, so the pupils had a school day that lasted from 8 to 17 including transport. That's not gonna work. But there were also some municipalities that were equally smart enough when they interpreted a school day from 8 to 16. This was said in connection with confirmation training. Then there were other reasons why they just couldn't stay within what we had agreed. So I actually understand that Enhedslisten has made this resolution. Unfortunately, however, we cannot support it. There are several reasons for this. One has already been mentioned by the Minister. It's a bit of an unfortunate mix-up between agreement and primary school. I'd rather we stay out of the agreements. That's the good Danish model. But of course it also affects the relationship of the teachers that the school day has become longer. That is something that is dealt with separately in the agreement. Then there is the more practical reason, namely that the Danish People's Party is part of the public school society. If we vote in favour of this, it will mean that we step out of conciliation. We do not want that. Instead, we will always be the party that keeps watching in the public school circle that school day does not get too long. We're not having a full-day school. We're gonna have a holistic school. We've agreed to that. We've agreed to 8 to 14, 8 to 14, 30, 8 to 15. We are in favour of that. In addition, it will continue to draw attention to the opportunities already available to shorten school days. The Minister has set in motion an excellent attempt. The Minister has also drawn attention to the two teachers' scheme, which could enable the school day to be shortened. A municipality can also extend the school year by 1 week and thus reduce the length of the day. There are a number of opportunities for schools which we must constantly draw their attention to in the municipalities. We will continue to do so. We will, together with the Minister, keep an eye on them doing what we ask them to do in the municipalities. So, although the resolution is sympathetic and we understand the intention, we will not be able to support it during any other reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324114952	It gave rise to a brief remark from Mr. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324114955	The rapporteur said that there was some confusion between the substance of the agreement and the substance of the legislation. In my opinion, that is not the case, but the problem is that the reform of primary schools was financed by legislation on something that should have been the subject of collective agreements. That is why there is a cost of 2-3 billion. kr. Less than it would have been had the teacher's preparation time been preserved, and that brings us in a very difficult situation if we want to restore proper conditions for teachers. If you don't want to do this, then the Danish People's Party is prepared to find the 2-3 billion. kr., will it cost to restore the teacher's agreement? I am not asking whether the Danish People's Party will be involved in regulating the conditions of teachers to be very clear, but whether it will help to create the financial framework so that those who negotiate the terms are able to restore the agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324115104	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324115108	I cannot say anything about this here from the platform, but the Enhedslisten's rapporteur is quite right in saying that there was a confusion in connection with the reform of primary schools. What one should have done was that one should have let the teachers enter into an agreement with KL first. Then one should have found out what works in the teaching, that is to say have found out the relevant research, and then finally one should have done a primary school reform. That would have been a proper way to do it. The opposite has been done here. First you want a reform; you have to find the money by letting the KL try the teachers, so you find the money there; then you connect some follow-up research on the reform of the primary school, which is one big experiment; and in a few years, by 2020, we will know what works. So I understand that the rapporteur thinks this is a strange way of doing it. I think so, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324115156	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324115159	I am pleased that we cannot disagree on this. There is, after all, an opportunity today to shorten the school day by applying section 16b of the primary school law. There is a problem that it cannot be used to regulate the preparation time. Now I hear that the Minister is trying to get this area under way. Will the Danish People's Party contribute to the fact that, contrary to what is stated in § 16b, the experiments can also include the use of means that arise by reducing teaching time to improve the preparation time of teachers?
ParlaMint-DK_20170324115236	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324115237	I find that a little difficult to answer, but I would like to look into it when the rapporteur puts it forward. I find it hard to say yes or no to this from the platform. It also depends on the results of the Minister's experiments. I am sorry that I cannot go into this further.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324115258	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Alex Ahrendtsen and welcomes Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left, Denmark's Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324115305	Thank you for the floor, President. Yes, we are now debating a motion for a resolution from the Enhedslisten, which reduces the length of school days, and the motion for a resolution will be voted against. The Left simply takes the view that it is a really, very important framework that we were given in connection with the reform of primary schools, among other things. about the fact that several hours were added. What Enhedslisten is proposing in this motion for a resolution is then to remove a few hours, and what concerns me about that resolution is what hours it is that suddenly disappear from everyday life in primary school. It is the case that the reform of primary schools, which was a really great reform, takes time, and that is perhaps one of the things that we politicians have not been good enough to address. It is clear that when you decide for such a great reform, you must also recognise that everything does not work the next day in reality. It takes a long time to get all the various good tools in place, which are also in this reform toolbox. I must now say that the accompanying research programmes that we have set in motion at the same time also show that this is going the right way. There may be places where you can still do much better or better, but I have to say that even when I am around visiting primary schools around the country, there are also a lot of good examples of how well this reform has also helped to create. I can say to Enhedslisten's rapporteur that this week I have also held a meeting with the Danish Sports Association, which can positively tell about how people are now getting more movement into the day of teaching, i.e. how it positively rubs off on pupils, who may not have had the opportunity to move in the past, and how it is also positively contagious on better learning. These are some of the things that I actually think are really important there is room for in a school everyday. I know it myself from the three boys I have, who are now adults, i.e. how difficult they sometimes had to sit more or less quietly for many hours, and there I also see an opportunity, as far as that group of children is concerned, that with the new reform here they have an opportunity to come out and use some of the gunpowder sometimes and for that matter also to get exercise. So all in all, I am proud of the reform. I know that it takes a lot of cool fights for that matter also by the teachers to get that space, but all in all I think the reform plays on some good keys and thus also helps to compose a good tune, hopefully for the great joy and benefit of the dear students. Conservatives are also voting against this resolution. I have promised to say this because it may be that their rapporteur will not be back in the Chamber before the debate on the resolution is concluded.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324115658	There are a few brief comments. The first is from Mrs Annette Lind, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324115703	Thank you. Now Mrs Anni Matthiesen told me that she had had a meeting with the Danish Sports Association, and I also attended that meeting. The resolution here from the Enhedslisten states that the long school days have meant that many children have had to give up their leisure activities. I think that is completely factually wrong. Can the rapporteur of the Left confirm that Denmark's Sports Association believes that this is about the fact that more children have actually been able to spend their time in the afternoon for leisure activities?
ParlaMint-DK_20170324115740	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324115742	Yes, what I can confirm is that, of course, the task of movement has also had a difficult start in many places, but what appears now is actually just the opposite, namely that by the students moving more during school hours, there are actually more pupils who may otherwise have had difficulty in getting hold of them in the past, who are more likely to be active in leisure time. I can then tell the Enhedslisten's rapporteur and also say to general information that we are just conducting a hearing, which will take place here in the Folketing, about what movement, which is part of the reform of primary school, has resulted from good things. And then I hope that the Enhedslisten rapporteur also has the opportunity to participate in it and thus also learn more about what it actually means for these children.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324115841	Then it's mr. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324115845	I'm a warm supporter of more movement in primary school, that's a good thing. I have the impression that the rapporteur's party is often very concerned about the professional qualifications that you have with you when you leave primary school. When the primary school reform was 2 years old, the Danish Teachers' Association wrote on the front page of their trade magazine • Two years and still slaves. They had asked the teachers what they thought had come out of the primary school reform, and 4 per cent replied. the teachers considered that the reform had had a positive impact on professional qualifications, 50% that it had had no impact, and one third that it had had a negative impact on professional qualifications. So, all respect for more movement, but does it not suggest that there is a problem when the teacher's assessment is that it has thus had a distinctly negative effect on professional qualifications? Is it not a study that impresses the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20170324115951	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324115952	Now I would like to start by saying that there are a great many studies and very many different studies. I have great confidence in the follow-up research programme that we started and from which we are constantly getting input. I have to say that some of the things I keep watching are the well-being of the students and, for that matter, also to ensure increased professionalism. Then I would also like to make the small comment here at the end that sometimes it may also depend on how to ask the question, which answer is given. Among other things: I could imagine that if, when we went to school and were 8, 10 or 12 years old, although we might have less time in school every day, the question was whether we thought school day was too long, then the vast majority of us would say yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324120045	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324120047	Yes, but now the study I referred to was partly about teachers and partly about professional qualifications. But I understand that there is little recognition of teachers' assessment of what is happening in primary school. So I would like to ask another question. There has been a reduction of about 10%. the proportion of children attending school freetime schemes after the reform of the primary school. It must be assumed that this is largely due to the fact that parents can no longer afford to pay in expensive sentences for their children's leisure services. Is it not a very big problem that there is 10 per cent. of the children who have been forced out of school-time arrangements? And what does the rapporteur think we should do about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170324120138	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324120140	I would like to acknowledge that there may be a problem here, in other words that there may be a group of parents who may not be able to afford to continue keeping their children in school-time arrangements. I must also say that we can look back in time. In fact, for almost 19 years before I became a politician, I have been working on this part too. We also saw that trends changed over the year, in relation to when parents joined the children or for that matter, the children reported out of the SFOs. Among other things: We saw as something firm that when the sun began to shine as it does today, and it became a little more spring, there was typically also across the country, many places where the parents left the children out of the leisure scheme, because now some might rather ride home from school and go to the ball field or anywhere else than to be in the leisure scheme. So there may be different reasons, but it is important that educators are also involved and involved in school day, and some of what I have in mind is that we ensure that they are also part of the new reform.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324120251	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. We're moving on with sir. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324120300	Thank you. I thought for a moment that Enhedslisten had put forward proposals to shorten the long parliamentary days, but I can see that on the agenda is not the case. What we need to talk about is a proposal to shorten the long school days. This may be a good idea if there is insufficient content in school days or if the school days are organized in a way which, to put it bluntly, is boring and demotivating. But it is also an advantage to organise a school day which has an appropriate length if it makes professional and educational sense. It is generally such a very philosophical question what a long time really is, because an hour can be very long if there is a boring content in it, and an entire day can be very short if there is a really exciting content. So it's not that easy to say what these long school days really are. But what I would like to draw attention to in relation to the proposal here is that there is, of course, media in place today to adjust on the length of school day. Several have mentioned that there is section 16B, which thus allows for a shorter school day. The Minister has also recently set up an experimental scheme; 50 schools can gain experience in shorting the school day down. So the means to cut down school days are already there to a certain extent. And once this attempt has been evaluated at some point, we will also have an even better basis for assessing what these principles are and what the acquis is which the whole conciliation circle will then have to take a position on and where it will then be possible to do what is practically best. The Enhedslisten is right, of course, that the means to make school day work must be space and must exist, but we believe to a certain extent that they are already space and that the opportunities will be even better when the experimental scheme is evaluated. It can also be said in this way that it would be a little premature here and now to make a decision that school days should be shortened. That is why we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324120529	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324120533	It is absolutely true that section 16B of the primary school law provides a valve, or whatever we should call it, in relation to the municipalities doing something else. However, does the rapporteur not think that it is a problem that, out of the resources saved by shortening school days, nothing can be used to extend the opening hours of school free-time arrangements? Because then there's a slip. If the youngest pupils get off an hour earlier and the school break is closed, you have a problem with what to do with the children. Is it not a regular problem that § 16B, although it can solve a problem inside the school, does not solve the problem of making sure that the school-free arrangements are ready to receive the children who are previously off duty?
ParlaMint-DK_20170324120626	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324120628	I shall refer here to what the Minister, who is also my party colleague, says, that an evaluation has been started. It is clear that such a reform is very, very large and complex, and it must have time to work, and even though it is the wisest people in the country who have helped to devise it, it may well be that there is one thing or two that you had not seen before. So I think we should see what this evaluation shows, and then the conciliation circle will have to try again to take a position on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324120658	The questioner? Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Christian Poll from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324120709	Thank you, and I am filling in for the rapporteur, Carolina Magdalene Maier, who has asked me to say the following: in the alternative, we agree with the central intention of the proposal, that is to say, an even better opportunity to determine and organise the length of the school day locally. Today municipalities can use § 16 B, but for the intermediate stage and the secondary school, it is intended only on special occasions. In addition, § 16B binds the conversion of the long school days to a two-teacher scheme. Here we believe that this proposal can provide better opportunities and access for schools to reduce school time for all classes. However, we believe that the proposal can be made even more ambitious by allowing the school boards, in cooperation with the management, to determine the length of the school day without the municipality as an intermediary. We are pointing this out ourselves in our new school policy initiative. In line with this, we also believe that the proposal should be amended so that the funds released by a shorter day of school are not frozen, as the proposal here lays down for more preparation time and opening hours in the day institutions. We would like again to give the school boards the opportunity, in cooperation with the school management, to assess what they would like to use the funds for, so that each school has a freer framework to be school in the way they want. We are therefore in favour of the proposal and, with the adjustments we have pointed out, we will be pleased to vote in favour. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324120841	Thank you, sir. Christian Poll. There are no brief comments. Then I warmly welcome Mrs Marianne Jelved, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324120849	Thank you. Under special conditions, the school day can be shortened by replacing some hours with two adults. We know this very well, we have discussed it many times, it is part of the reform of the primary school, and that applies when there are special needs in the specific class. So it's not just a general rule you can use under the law. This option is often used to argue to short school days generally down. So it's a misunderstanding, because you can't use the law for that, so we have to change the law. It is also often argued that there is a need for a shorter school day because pupils cannot cultivate their leisure interests because they come home so late. With ten grandchildren of varying age and thus a continuous knowledge of the primary school for many years, it is my experience that there are no children from the schooling and the intermediate stage who go home at 12:00. 2:00 p.m. It's very, very rare. When I pick up grandkids, I'll pick them up at 2:00 a.m. 15.00, because that is how the grandparents can do something that the parents can't. When it's the parents who pick them up, it's between 2:00 a.m. 16 and 17. Then, in fact, they go to a whole lot of leisure activities, too many in my view, but that is their choice. They go to football, swimming, dancing etc., and it works excellently, and they accompany their comrades to the leisure activities. I have been in the Folketing since 1987, and in the years from then to the school reform, we have been constantly confronted with the following considerations as educational or educational rapporteurs, or whatever we have called ourselves: now, after the municipality, the municipality has turned towards using the minimum hour and finally the trump, which was that now we have certainly lost what is equivalent to teaching for an entire school year for the children, which is at the minimum hour. This is something that has really bothered the education rapporteurs, so we have been searching with light and light for how we managed to compensate ourselves for the inequality which actually lies in the fact that the municipalities chose the minimum hour even instead of the indicative hour figures. So we have a standard hour now, so there is no longer that option for the municipalities. It is to ensure that there is a reasonable uniformity about hourly allocations to children across land and rich. So it has certainly succeeded. We wanted us to be able to devote several hours to a wide range of specific things at school, namely to Danish and mathematics, to more foreign languages, to practical-music subjects, etc. We have made sure that there can be a varied school day. There are demands for what is possible for it, movement throughout the day, and the open school where the students among others. can use the partnerships that schools have to enter into with community voluntary associations, cultural institutions, companies, and what may now be of interest to involve in school education. This also means that there is the possibility of starting from some practice in the neighbourhood and leading it into school or letting it into school, so that it is not always the theory that is based on books. It is clear that the implementation of such a comprehensive reform is taking varying speeds around, and therefore it is also reassuring that we have follow-up research that follows what is happening and how it is implemented. After all, we get it once a year, at least, presented by competent people and we are then the circle of conciliation parties behind the reform of primary school, and they are of course published for everyone's interest. Administrations have in some cases sat down in schools, and I think that is cross-border, and that is quite wrong. It is not the schools that need the administration to come and tell how to teach and what to do. It's actually management's responsibility. In Section 2 (1) (a) of the Annex to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011, the following paragraph shall be added: 2, the primary school law states that it is the head of the school who is responsible for the quality of teaching at the school and who is responsible for the organisation and organisation of teaching at the school. And I'm actually very comfortable with that. It is therefore not the administration that can intervene over that limit and decide how things are to be done in the school's practical everyday life. Nor can the municipal council do so. It is the responsibility of the management at school to do so. So I must take this opportunity to say once again that the administration must leave school. The school management must return to school and not be in charge of management, and it is the responsibility of the school management to ensure that there is support for educators and teachers so that they can carry out the training they are obliged to carry out. The reform of schools is, after all, a different way of working than the motion for a resolution, No. B-60, tabled by Enhedslisten, is now in the pipeline. So, like the other rapporteurs from the conciliation circle around the primary school, I cannot support B-60, but I appeal to us to give time so that school reform can manifest itself in the real world. That is all we can be aware of.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324121412	Thank you to Mrs Marianne Jelved. There are no brief comments. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Jacob Mark of the Socialist People's Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324121428	Thank you. This is an exciting debate about the length of school day. We have had it many times, and I do not think we have finished discussing it after today either. There are many who ask me when I'm around the schools: Why was it really now that you made school day longer? Many primary school pupils in particular are asking me that question. And I can say that in SF's case, what was crucial when it comes to saying yes to making school day longer was that you got several hours in Danish and mathematics. And I actually have to say that when I talk to teachers today, they are still happy that there is more immersion in Danish and mathematics. They simply feel they can go further. There was a desire that you had several hours for what in our optics was activity lessons, that is, hours that were not such professional, but where you kind of had some teaching, where you got away from school, you went on a tour to see things, you got people in to tell things you had a collaboration between the teachers and teachers. There was a desire to bring something new into the primary school, and several hours were introduced and it was certainly important for many SFs because for many children it is such that the time at school is the best time all day. This means that when there is longer time in school, there is more time with adults who take care of someone who is more time with comrades who think it is fun to be with someone who is more time in a place where there is organization for life. And it meant a lot to many of the SFs, for example. work at full-day schools, including full-day schools before the reform of the primary school, e.g. in Odense and in Ishøj. There has been a lot of talk about whether you have gone too far has school day become too long? And there the SF said almost a year and a half ago: yes, we actually believe it is; we think that school day has become too long. I think this is very well reflected in the way the frustration over the length of the school day has developed, because one thing was that one year one increased the length of the school day I think there was about 40 per cent. of the students who were disgruntled but then came to year two, where the school day was made 2 hours longer by making the study cafe compulsory. Then the discontent exploded: 84%. I can say that many of the teachers and educators I represent thought it had gone too long. I believe that the feeling that the school day has become too long is also linked to the fact that we see a school being that in my optics is becoming more underfunded, which means that there is less time to go out of the house; there is less time to do the strong teacher-teacher collaboration; there is less time to get exciting people in and tell about their view of the world. And that was the idea behind the reform of primary school. That is why I think it is also a problem that needs to be resolved. And how do you solve it? Is this the solution? Well, at the beginning of my term of office, I was very convinced that if we just spread that section 16b out, it all worked out enough, because then the schools have the freedom to change if they want to. And as such, I like the freedom of schools. But I really think that is a good point, which I also think came from the rapporteur of the Radicals and perhaps also from the Social Democrats' rapporteur, that one of the reasons why we did this reform was also that there was too much difference before the reform of primary school, so that there was a marked difference between how many hours the pupils were taught and that in many municipalities it was also about economics and that it would provide a guarantee that the pupils were fairly equal. In addition, Paragraph 16b also has the unfortunate effect that it helps to undermine the SFO's standards, as I also hear the Enhedslisten's rapporteur say, that this is a problem that we have today, which they take into account in the proposal. So I'm actually of the opinion that the conciliation circle, of which SF is part, should sit down and agree to solve this, because I think that if you solve this, there'll be quiet in the primary school. I don't think that's gonna happen before. That is why we have put forward a proposal which states that school days should be reduced half an hour and that should be used to finance a lower class ceiling than today. We have proposed 24, and maybe 25, we live with it. The important thing is that it will be a better school... I think if you make sure that the class sizes get smaller and the school day gets a little shorter. But I think that is important something that will be decided in the unanimous vote of the public school circle parties, because otherwise I do not think there will be any peace. I think it is important that decisions of this kind are taken together, and that is why we will, of course, try to raise them in the conciliation circle, and that is why we cannot support this proposal, even though I am sympathetic to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324121923	Sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324121927	As the rapporteur mentions, there are many challenges in applying § 16b. However, I would like the rapporteur to try to unfold what the rapporteur considers to be the solution if the proposal put forward by the Enhedslisten, which would precisely solve the problem that has not been solved by Article 16b, namely that resources saved by short school days are not the solution to ensure that teachers improve their preparation time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324122007	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324122008	Now, sir. Jakob Sølvhøj has a past in the trade union movement and worked closely with the municipalities, I suppose, and I have a past in municipal politics. When the municipalities are as financially pressured as they are, even with this proposal there will be a risk that even if you tie the economy exactly on the funds that are about the length of school day, there will be a risk that this will be an opportunity to save money: now that you have been able to make school day a little shorter and prioritize the SFO, it is also possible to prioritize it as saving in the next savings round. I actually hear several actors, both heads of schools and teachers, fear this. I recognise that attempts have been made to take this into account, but I am not sure that is the solution. Therefore, we also came to the model that you simply have to spend the money from a shortened school day on a class ceiling, because you cannot move on that. There is the class ceiling that is there, and that must be taken into account as a municipality. But again, this is something that needs to be discussed in the conciliation circle.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324122106	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324122108	I have noted the SF's proposal, and so I had very much sympathy with the thinking about reducing the class ratios, but it did not quite answer my question. If the SF's bid on how we generate the economy to ensure that the abuse that took place during the teacher's preparation time is not that we have to ensure that the economy is brought about, how do we do it? And my errand is not that the Folketing should go in to decide how the funds should be used; it is a matter of agreement. But it is obvious that there is an economic problem. Otherwise, that funding would not have been made when the reform of the primary school was being carried out. If this isn't the solution, what is the solution to the problem of teacher preparation time?
ParlaMint-DK_20170324122158	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324122159	Part of my answer was that the class ceiling actually binds the economy, and I think that is part of the solution. In relation to the teachers' preparation time, I believe that this is something that the parties must take into account in a financial law. After all, it is just a fact that the average teaching time of teachers has been pressed because it helped to finance the reform of primary schools. I believe that if we are to arrive at an agreement that everyone is happy about, it is not about us making legislative action, on the contrary. Then it is a question of making a financial framework available to the municipalities and to the employees so that they can negotiate a good deal. We can do that in here without interfering with anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324122240	Thank you, sir. Jacob Mark. There are no more brief comments. The Conservative rapporteur has not succeeded in achieving this, so we move on to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, Mr President. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324122254	Parliament's decision in 2013 to extend the school day in primary school has been a source of massive dissatisfaction among teachers, pupils and among parents. And if anyone had the idea that it would probably pass quickly, then it has to be said that there they have been seriously mistaken. When the Danish Teachers' Association three quarters of a year ago conducted a survey for their members on their assessment of the long school days, 1 per cent thought. When it came to the intermediate stage and the schooling, the top scorer was 6%. When asked how many people thought it had been a deterioration, the answer was from between 76 per cent. 82 per cent and 82 per cent. of teachers that the long school days were a sign of deterioration. In an SFI study, which came here three or four months ago, you could read that 82%. of the pupils in primary school think the day is too long. It has to be said, however, that among parents it looks a little better than it did for a transition, but there are 41 per cent. of the parents, who express dissatisfaction with the long school days and beyond, there are a lot of people who not only respond to a questionnaire but vote with their feet and have taken their children out of primary school and into a private school offer. I am sure that the parties' educational rapporteurs know these figures as well as I do, and it seems difficult to explain away that the long school days are thunderously unpopular. It should not be my claim here that one can always put absolute similarities between what is popular and what actually works. But it is an obvious sign that the long school days have affected both the thriving and the learning in a negative way and continue to do so. In short, there is no point simply closing one's eyes and ears, and on that basis I think it is very reasonable that the Minister has listened to the criticism and has attempted shorter school days, but I think that it seems completely pointless just to insist on calming down the primary school, even if the problems have not been resolved. Unfortunately, it is not a simple task to find a way out of the problems in which the primary school finds itself. I would also like to stress that I do not believe that the problems are linked solely to the long-standing school day. There are so many other problems that concentrate, not least, on attempts at a learning target management of the school. But we cannot escape the fact that the long school days are a core problem. The fact that the long school days were financed by reductions in teacher preparation time and a saving of no less than 1.2 billion. kr. At school freetime schemes and clubs, the long school days will continue to stand in the way and make it difficult for dialogue on primary school to develop constructively. That is why we are proposing to allow municipalities the freedom to shorten school days on condition that the funds saved by shortening the long school days are returned to the two sources of funding, so to speak. That is why we can often have sympathy for other proposals on what to use the funds from the short day of school for. In fact, however, we think it is fundamental that the misfinancing that took place with the school reform should be corrected by returning the 1.2 billion. kr. or an amount of that magnitude for leisure and clubs and by ensuring that there is a room for negotiating proper working time rules for teachers. I know that it can be a defeat for some of the parties to change the long school days. On the other hand, I believe that the constant repetition of the fact that the solution to the problem of primary school is that there is tranquillity is simply an impossible approach to solving the problems of primary school. What is the solution to the problems of the primary school is to go in and look at what is the cause of all the scandal, and that is that teachers' working time rules have been mistreated and school-free arrangements and clubs have been mistreated when the reform of the primary school was introduced, and that has to be corrected, otherwise we will simply not have the tranquillity that we all want there to be about the primary school so that we can develop it in a good and positive direction for the pupils.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324122802	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first one is from Mrs. Annette Lind.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324122806	Thank you. After all, a great deal has been said about primary school and, as the rapporteur can hear, many of us agree on the direction we should take. At the same time, a great deal is also said in the public debate, which does not always hold true. That is why I am very pleased that we have a follow-up research which can factually tell us what is actually happening. And here you can see that things are moving forward in many areas. When Enhedslisten writes in his motion for a resolution and I quote: '... that many children have had to give up their leisure activities, then I think it is factually wrong. I would just like to hear from the rapporteur whether it is an expression of something he thinks; is it an expression of the public debate; or is it the fact that is anchored in reality?
ParlaMint-DK_20170324122858	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324122859	This is an expression of what we hear from many parents, but I agree that it can be complicated to make it up to them. I noted the pingpong between two of the parties to the conciliation on primary school, which should highlight the view that it has generated more interest among children and young people in sport. I agree with that view. I myself have had many dialogues with DGI in my previous employment, and all studies show that if you work more with movement in primary school, it has a significant spill-over effect on what children do in their leisure life. So I have no doubt that it has a clear positive effect on sport. I am absolutely in favour of children doing sport. But there's more leisure than that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324122952	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324122954	I'd take that sentence out if I were Enhedslisten, because it's factually wrong when you write it like this. And it was an expression of something you think. I would like to speak content and I was also happy to speak well in schools. It is the case that if you remove up to 5 hours of the education provided in the new framework for primary school, then it is the movement that you have to take away. You have to take from the open school, you have to take from the supporting education. You have to take the things that bind the professional classes together. Is Enhedslisten opposed to the varied teaching? And when Enhedslisten says long school days so consistently, it is a longer school day that must be varied. That is exactly what our agreement says. What does Enhedslisten think about varied teaching? Are we just gonna do more of the same thing? Because if you remove 5 hours, you get such a lesson with the professional lessons that you had before we did the new framework. And so there were a lot of young people who came out of primary school without being able to read or write well enough to take a youth education.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324123104	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324123106	I am absolutely in favour of a varied school day. It is not my view that it is necessary to cut the support education alone if school days are cut short. I think we need to have a thorough dialogue on where it should be. But to present it as such that before the current reform of primary school was achieved, it was not possible, in the professional environment of teachers and teaching staff, to create a varied school day, I think is a complete distortion of the way in which the primary school has functioned. Of course, a varied school day could be made even before the reform of the primary school arrived. What was the great effect of the reform of primary school was not the varied day of school, but it was that less preparation time was given to those who had to teach primary school and that we had to cut very sharply on the school leave arrangements, so that one in ten of the children who had previously entered a school break scheme now have to go home because their parents do not think that the expensive prices there are, compared with the shorter opening hours, make it reasonable that they have their child enrolled in a school break scheme. That is the consequence of the reform.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324123222	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324123225	I would actually just like to ask a brief question to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur: what hours will the Enhedslisten remove from everyday life in schools?
ParlaMint-DK_20170324123239	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324123240	The Enhedslisten has not made a complete answer to that, but I have also just mentioned in my reply to Mrs Annette Lind that I do not think that we are per. definition just has to cut the supporting teaching away. I take the view that the supporting education does not work well enough in many schools, but I think that you have to go in and look at the whole range of subjects and find out where it is that you have to cut if you have to short school day down, and I think that it is important that this should take place in a close dialogue with those who work at school and those who know the school's everyday life. So rather than Enhedslisten making a quick fix in the school area compared to what the right solutions are... as there may be a tendency to do... then it is something that must be provided in a dialogue with the school partners.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324123333	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324123334	Well, I'm just trying to think your motion for a resolution to the end. For now, Enhedslisten says that it must take place in a dialogue as to what hours it is that you want to remove again, and I also hear Enhedslisten say that you really care about the supporting lessons. But you also care about the hours of movement, and you probably also care about the open school. So is it the course class you want to remove? So is it Danish, mathematics or English? And once again, is there not a danger that too many pupils will leave primary school without being able to read and count?
ParlaMint-DK_20170324123415	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324123416	Now I myself mentioned in a question to the rapporteur that there is 4%. of teachers who believe that the reform has strengthened professional qualifications. So you might think that here we have a problem with how it works. It is not my view that it is a task for the Enhedslisten that we should immediately produce a final proposal on what exactly for hours should go away. However, it gives us a strange delusion to present it as if we had not been able to run an excellent primary school before we had the reform of the primary school. So, of course, you can cut down on the long school days and find a reasonable balance between the various subjects that have to be left and the hours that have to be cut away after a change in the reform of primary school. I do not think it is so difficult to include expertise in this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324123503	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324123506	Yes, but what we are witnessing is typically Enhedslisten: You are good at criticizing, but not very good at saying what happens next. It was, of course, a relatively simple question that my colleague asked: if you want less hours, what are the hours you want less? Is it less Danish lessons, is it less English lessons? Is it less supportive teaching? What is it? You can't just stand there and say you want less without saying what it is you want less of.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324123534	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324123535	I think that is wrong. Of course, one can do so by saying that one can return to the length of the school days previously, and then enter into a close dialogue with the school partners on how to adjust the subjects accordingly. I have noted that the way in which the National Association of Municipalities believes it is necessary to develop the school is to try to avoid the Danish Teachers' Association and the teachers and their professional knowledge and competences. We think the reverse in Enhedslisten: We think it is a very good idea that when it comes to designing the new subjects and the new subject composition, it must be done in a close dialogue with the school partners. I guess that's not a very strange point of view.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324123623	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324123625	No, but now you have to decide. I mean, if we roll things back, but Enhedslisten would like to keep the supporting training, then there are some of the professional subjects that you have to scrap off for a few hours. Otherwise, it doesn't add up.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324123644	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324123645	It was, of course, as the questioner will probably know, something different from grade to grade, how much time was needed for supporting teaching. But how much should be left in the individual grade and how much should be reduced in relation to some of the professional classes, it will be and I am sorry to have to repeat it be wise to find out in a dialogue with the school partners who know the school's everyday life and know the needs of the students.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324123716	Thank you, sir. Jakob Silver Mound. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Education Committee. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324123738	The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur to speak is Mr Beazley. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen from Social Democracy. It should preferably be from the platform. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324123811	I'm so sorry. For some reason, I actually thought it was the Secretary of State first. First of all, I think it is very, very important to make it clear that I have been looking forward very, very much to this debate. I do, of course, have that for many different reasons, but most of all because, since we in the Danish Parliament last had the debate on the development of EU cooperation, a great deal has happened. It was at a time when the British had not voted out of the European Union, before some of the newer Member States, especially Poland and Hungary, were seriously at odds, before we had been able to see ever-increasing and continued migratory flows, and that was at all when everything seemed a little less vomited into the air. For the Social Democrats, this does not alter the fact that the European Union is basically the idea of people living together in a free, fair and solidarity society, a community based on a partnership between countries that respect our fundamental rights and, at the same time, create a better life for future generations. If, on Saturday in Rome, we can celebrate the 60th anniversary of the Treaty of Rome, which laid the foundations for peace and economic trade between old enemies, then at the same time it is also a testament to the fact that the European Union has been an institutional, political and economic success in delivering a strongly committed community that has brought peace to the continent. For more than 70 years now, there has been peace between the same European countries which were otherwise experts in killing each other's peoples in the past. This does not change the fact that when it is that you meet in Rome on Saturday, then Monday will also be again, and that there are a number of fundamental challenges that we in the Community and the cooperation need to address. For the Social Democratic Party it is basically positive, as the recent analysis by the government and the Ministry of Industry also shows that the link with the internal market has been an absolute success. Each LO family earns more because of the opportunities in the internal market and Denmark is richer because of the internal market. But basically that does not change the fact that we have a large number of major crises and imbalances between, on the one hand, the internal market and, on the other hand, respect for good pay and working conditions. Nor does it change the fact that the social cohesion of the continent, but in particular within the European Union, is really under pressure in these years. The second day came a report from the European trade union movement which, by drawing data from official EU sources, etc. could conclude that one in ten employees in Europe today is working poor and that inequality is increasing, both between the different countries and between the countries of southern Europe on the one hand and the countries of northern Europe on the other hand and within the different countries on the other. A major reason for this is the imbalances in the internal market. For while it is one-sidedly positive that we can trade freely with each other and that we can sell our goods, it also applies to a small country such as Denmark, which is so dependent on us having a large market to be able to sell our products on the market, we must not close our eyes to the fact that, at the same time, especially when it comes to posting, when it comes to temporary employment agencies, when it comes to companies that commit regular shopping, when it comes to a large number of other things, there is fundamental, systematic social dumping, and there is downward pressure on wages and working conditions, especially among low-paid and short-skilled people in the European labour market. That is why it is also a very, very important priority for the Social Democratic Party when we discuss it: on the one hand, we note that Denmark belongs in the European Union, but, on the other hand, we also correct the imbalances that are internal to the internal market. You can do that in many ways. At the moment there are major discussions on a revision of the Posting of Workers Directive, and in the Social Democratic Party we ourselves helped to disfellowship the government by drawing the yellow card because we were not satisfied with the draft that lay. However, if we can establish a directive that seriously takes account of the same pay for the same work in the same place, then we have come very, very far, at the same time as there is fundamental respect for the welfare models and labour market models that exist in the respective European countries. Similarly, in the transport sector, regardless of whether we are talking about the aviation or freight sector, there are major challenges with companies using regular shopping, companies using temporary agency services and companies using the opportunities to take on tasks in one country to actually carry them out in another country while at the same time helping to push down wages and working conditions. As far as we are concerned, these are fundamental downward pressures on wages and working conditions, which are also at the heart of the challenge to the European Union in these years. The second major problem we have is, and I think most people in the Danish Parliament agree on this, of course, dealing with the flows of refugees and migrants. We must be honest and say that we are not so far prepared to have a final proposal, but we are at least inspired by some of the Franco-German ideas of allowing asylum treatment to take place south of Europe's borders. The third major issue we have is, of course, the fundamental long-term and sustainable financing of our respective treasury and welfare societies. For too many years there has been too much systematic evasion in relation to paying the tax due. There is a systematic use of tax havens, both in countries within the EU, which is totally unacceptable but, of course, also in countries outside the EU. A number of different legislative steps are already being taken, but this could be much, much more ambitious. It is also about the race towards the bottom that has been between the states within the Community, to push both corporate tax and corporate tax as far down as possible. This is also one of the reasons why we in the Social Democratic Party have proposed to make a bottom below corporate taxes, while at the same time wholeheartedly supporting the creation of a common corporate tax base across Europe. Last but not least, I would just like to emphasise once again that social democracy is very much in favour of the European Union. This does not mean that we think everything is good, and it does not mean at all that we think that there is little room for much, very great improvements, but that means that a strong European Union also requires a reformed European Union. We need to resolve the imbalances in the internal market so that people see that we can really share in the prosperity, productivity and growth development that is the single market, while at the same time ensuring and providing solutions to some of the cross-border problems that we all share. Thank you for that and I look forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324124529	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324124535	Thank you. I'm gonna start by asking sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, if we can't stop talking about the European Union and the project of peace. There is no doubt that what has brought peace to Europe is the fact that after the Second World War the United States decided to enter the European battlefield through NATO cooperation. The reason for World War II was precisely the fact that the United States was not interested in following the pact between France and Britain in relation to the defence of Poland. Having said that, I hear the rapporteur mention a lot about where the rapporteur really wants more EU. I hear the rapporteur talking about a bottom below corporate taxes and talking about a common EU minimum wage, as Mr. Henrik Sass Larsen made, talk about a common asylum policy, and I don't know what. Can the rapporteur mention some points in which the rapporteur wants power back to the nation states? Just a few?
ParlaMint-DK_20170324124639	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324124640	First of all, I disagree with the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party in the historical interpretation of why peace has been created. This does not mean that I am not aware that the United States played a very important role in the reconstruction of Europe after the Second World War. But what we know historically is that when countries that have always been in conflict with each other in the past over resources or over prices or over everything else, bind themselves together in mutually binding communities when they start to act more closely when they start to make decisions together, then they do not run into one another and slit each other's throats. The second thing I want to mention in this context is that we in the Committee on European Affairs were visiting it was a visit that actually made a very big impression on me in the Balkans last spring. It was in Albania, and we were among others. in Kosovo. We had a meeting with the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Kosovo, and I asked the Foreign Minister quietly: What if, for that reason, I think there is a fairly high probability that a saturation point has been reached for the accession of several countries to the European Union? Then he said that he did not think that was the case at all, because they are engaged in a process of accession, and I asked again quietly in the context of the analysis that is now available, and then he says that what he thinks will happen on the day when they realize that they cannot become part of the European Community is that they will then probably return to what they have been really good at the last 2 000 years, namely cutting their throats. So it still has a function today, whether we are expanding with more countries or not, but just the idea of being allowed to join the community, helps to keep certain countries on a peaceful and productive path of reform.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324124816	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324124818	Excuse me, sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen now seems to me somewhat unfamiliar with European history. So, the fact is not really the simple fact that, through the history of Europe, Yugoslavia, the Soviet Union, Czechoslovakia on a smaller scale, but nevertheless has always collapsed into internal dissension, and is not the reality that what we see in the European Union at the moment is completely the same: a lot of countries that have nothing or very little in common, which have been put together in a construction that makes, among other things, that. A number of southern European countries are unable to solve the structural and fundamental problems that they have in order to actually create growth in their societies, which in turn leads to dissatisfaction among the peoples? And did Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen at all any solutions to the questions which Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen brought up in relation to the free movement of workers?
ParlaMint-DK_20170324124910	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324124912	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth is absolutely right that empire formations have had the habit of historically breaking down. What is, after all, the difference between the European project and the Soviet Union and the Roman Empire, or whatever it may be mentioned, is that it is done on democratic principles, that the purpose of it has been, and indeed historically has, made us all richer, but I agree with Mr Tugendhat. Kenneth Kristensen Berth in that there are some fundamental imbalances and inequalities in the way things are going now. I believe in particular that there is an imbalance between, on the one hand, the four freedoms within the internal market and, on the other hand, the fundamental respect for employees' rights, wages and working conditions. I mean, you can do that one way or the other. In this context, it is important that the European Parliament and the Council should be involved in the work of the Court of Justice of the European Communities in order to ensure that the Court of Justice of the European Communities is able to exercise its powers in the field of justice and home affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324125009	Thank you. Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324125011	Thank you. This is actually a good place to start with the social protocol and the need to take massive action against social dumping. There is often talk on television that the reason why people do not like the European Union is because they do not know what it is about. My claim would be that people actually know what this is about, because they are experiencing on their own, that wage and working conditions are being pressured, not least in the form of social dumping and gross exploitation of our Eastern European colleagues by greedy employers. From Enhedslisten's side we have on several occasions suggested that Denmark should work for a so-called social protocol that would allow the trade union movement to intervene and demand Danish agreement for foreign workers. I thought it sounded like sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen said that it was now also the policy of the Social Democrats. That would be a good thing. So I'd like to ask Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen confirms that hopefully we can send a signal to the Foreign Minister that this is something that Denmark should work for.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324125121	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324125122	I have been looking forward to the debate because it is a rather curious situation. I belong to one of those in my party who, at least for a very long time, have insisted that we should also be able to discuss all the shortcomings and problems of European cooperation, but I also feel that I am now doing what I have, in fact, always thought we cannot, namely to speak things up, it is important to remind and make people aware that it is in Danish interest to be a member of the European Union unilaterally. I also believe that Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen is absolutely right that the Danes know what this is all about, that they also know well the problems, and that is also why I think that is one of the reasons why 75%. Today, the Danes support Danish EU membership, because they can see that what the British are doing is inappropriate in every possible way and may end up harming the lowest paid and the shortest educated in particular even more. The last thing I want to say as a very short answer is that we would very much like to work with the Enhedslisten on the question which Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen asks.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324125226	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324125228	It is a good thing that the Socialists are now supporting a social protocol that we fought enormously to get the Thorning Government to support when the Socialists had the power. This would have been an obvious time to use that power to take massive action against social dumping. I would like to know whether there has also been a slippage in relation to the position of the Socialists on the issue of social clauses in public procurement. It was also a conflict we had with the Thorning Government, i.e. whether we should demand that in all public procurement tax dollars should not go to social dumping, it should be banned and there should be social clauses. Is this also a place where the Social Democrats have approached the Enhedslisten?
ParlaMint-DK_20170324125311	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324125312	I do not know whether it is to approach the Enhedslisten, because some of these things have been social democratic politics for many years. This is something we have been talking about for many years with the Danish trade union movement and our party colleagues, who are, of course, the ones who are particularly behind this proposal for a social protocol, the SPD in Germany and the Swedish Social Democrats. On the question of social clauses, I would like to say that we are already doing so today. Virtually everywhere, where Social Democratic mayors, Regional Council Presidents, etc. If you have the power, you do it in practice.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324125346	The next question is Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324125352	I just want to ask whether we can, once and for all, get the Socialists' EU rapporteur to tell us that the Socialists' Group Chairman's proposal on common minimum wages across European borders is not social democratic policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324125413	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324125415	Of course it had to come. It's a debate, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen and I have had a number of times. No, there is no concrete proposal on the part of the Social Democratic Party to introduce a common European minimum wage. I believe, however, that, before you panic and over-interpret things, it is really enough to discuss in countries with other labour market models than the Danish one. For us in the Social Democratic Party, it is crucial that the Danish labour market model, as we have it, which has been a historic success in distributing the wealth and fruits created by increased productivity development and growth in society, is preserved in as fair a way as possible, while at the same time creating flexibility for both employees and companies and security in the labour market. However, in other labour market models, and this is also the one we hope to have today, namely a European Union at different speeds, it may well be that it makes sense where there is a minimum wage system. We do not have that in Denmark, and that is why we are not interested in having a common European minimum wage that applies to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324125518	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324125520	I'm glad.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324125522	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324125524	Great.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324125526	It is certainly a good exercise to be brief in the comments. No one should be reproached for this, so we thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324125545	Thank you, sir. President. The European Union is in a historic crisis, and it is, regardless of the sigh of relief, as a result of the Dutch elections, which resulted in a total loss of 37 seats to the Social Democracy and the Liberal Party, supposedly met with the EU elite, who took the opportunity to cancel the crisis and, moreover, declared that election a great victory for the European Union. It's baroque, but it's a sign in time of how to try to create an artificial image of reality through indictment... alternative facts. However, it is also in itself a misunderstanding to imagine the fate of the European Union being determined by a single national election or two. Whether the Freedom Party and the Forum for Democracy in the Netherlands had gained 17 seats instead of the seven seats they were given, it is not in itself decisive for how the European Union is developing. After all, these parties were already excluded from gaining influence by the elite, as all other parties had declared themselves unwilling to cooperate with them. How such tactics work out can be seen by looking at our brothers in Sweden, where you can see how the Swedish Democrats in an opinion poll last week were to become Sweden's largest party with 26 per cent support. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). And I would like to congratulate you on that snapshot to our Swedish friends. What is crucial for the development of the European Union, on the other hand, is the willingness to listen to the signals expressed by national elections and referendums, but also pointers such as the recent Eurobarometer study, which indicates that support for the European Union is on the decline, and it is particularly in countries that have so far supported the European Union unreservedly. At the EU summit, however, the will to listen seems limited. It is strange all the time that the unwillingness to listen can now very well lead to unemployment for the deaf people tomorrow. There is a need for a fundamental reform of the whole EU system and a return of power to the nation states, but more later today in the question debate. Now it must be about the presentation of EU cooperation that the Foreign Minister has given to the Folketing. Perhaps the main challenge for EU cooperation has been the wave of migrants rushing across Europe, and it is still gone. The dimensions of the challenge were clearly highlighted when we learned last week that the number of asylum seekers in the European Union has fallen by only 4%. in 2016 compared to the 2015 Nightmare year. In Denmark, the figure has fallen by 71 per cent. in isolation, and this clearly shows the value of national austerity and border controls and the EU's total lack of competence in this area too. The much-vaunted agreement with Turkey has therefore not significantly reduced the number of asylum applications in Europe. Apparently, it has reduced the number of people crossing the Aegean Sea, but we do not really know that either, since the conclusion of the agreement coincides with the closure of the border between Macedonia and Greece, which was agreed between Austria and the countries of the Western Balkans without the consent of the European Union. The fact that the agreement with Turkey is hardly sustainable in the long term is shown in the way that the Turkish regime, particularly in the wake of an amateur coup attempt last summer, has behaved against Europe. Most recently, we have seen it with various Turkish ministers' attempts to drive electoral tour in various European cities in order to gain support for a referendum that transfers more power to the President, where both Germans and Dutch of the Turkish Sultan... I mean President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the Islamist Recep Tayyip Erdogan, have been confronted with accusations of being Nazis and Fascists. Perhaps the Turkish leader should take a look in the mirror. At the same time, the EU has tried agreements with a number of African countries. So far, I guess it's been a failure. In any case, we have failed to reduce the number of people crossing the Mediterranean route and, with the help of avid left-wing activists and Frontex, we should not go far into the Mediterranean until we are picked up and sailed safely on land in Europe. This is a totally untenable situation. Europe cannot deposit its political power of action in relation to immigration with either Turkey or Africa. We must not continue to deceive the people that there is no alternative to such a policy. Most recently, the Hungarian Government has taken the right and courageous step in the future of detention of persons seeking asylum in Hungary. The Austrian Government has proposed that Europe should enter into dialogue with friendly African countries that they should accept asylum seekers who come ashore in Europe against due and substantial financial compensation. If Europe is to be stopped, it is essential that Africans understand that there is no future for them in Europe and that, if you go anyway, you end up in Africa again and have wasted a lot of money on absolutely nothing. That's what's called the Australian model. In the summer of 2015, the number of asylum seekers arriving by boat to Australia had fallen from around 25,000 in 2013 to less than 200. Since then, according to the Australian authorities, there has not been a single boat, and I repeat: not a single boat. It is a complete illusion to imagine that we in the European Union should be able to divide ourselves out of the problems. A number of countries in Eastern Europe are wise enough not to allow themselves to be colonized. They have seen the result of the colonisation of Western Europe with ghettos, where Islamic law applies, towering crime, gigantic unemployment and unemployed, increasing Islamisation, terrorism, divisions in communities, etc. You will not repeat that development, and I understand that. Unfortunately, the European Union is far too naive when it comes to Islam and foreigners. One example of this is the alleged strengthening of the EU's external borders, which include: consist of an automation of entry and exit controls. From now on, you will not meet a real living person in the form of a police officer or a customs officer when you enter the European Union. You will have to put your passport on an electronic dingenot that will then, after a hit-no-hit system, decide whether or not the gateway to Europe goes up. It is good that, in future, people who enter the EU and leave the EU will be registered and that they will thus have a clearer picture of who is legally and illegally staying in Europe. But I do not see why this system must necessarily lead to saying goodbye to the policemen. In the Danish People's Party we believe that it has a value to meet a real human being before being released in Europe. A cop can see if the sweat pops out on his forehead, if there are nervous twitching in his eyes, i.e. if a human has pure flour in his bag. A machine cannot do that, and if you do not meet a human being, but a machine, you will certainly be much more calm when you pass into the European Union with evil in mind. In addition to the entry of unwanted people from other countries into the EU, undesirable movements are also taking place within the EU as a result of the free movement of workers. Now the spring and summer are approaching, and we in Denmark must also count on the annual intake of Gypsies, who hut themselves on the streets and straits under the guise of being migrant workers. In addition, there are employees who, however, push the wages and working conditions of Danish workers downwards. In the Danish People's Party, we do not believe that Eastern European employees must be completely shut down on the Danish labour market. But we have to decide for ourselves who and how many people are coming in and under what conditions they are going to work here. For example: whether and when they are entitled to social benefits. But apparently the European Commission wants even more freedom of movement. Thus, it is suggested that the period during which you should be able to stay in another EU country and look for work should be increased from 3 to 6 months. So you can take 1⁄2 years to the Sun Coast or perhaps even better to Golden Sands in Bulgaria, where, as you know, the money lasts a little longer, on behalf of Danish taxpayers under the guise of looking for work in a particular area, and the Danish authorities do not have a Chineseman's chance to check that this has actually happened. Already today, children's benefits, cash benefits, unemployment benefits and, in particular, the SU system are challenged by migrant workers, who in some cases are even purely pro forma workers. But the European Union does not see the problem. As Commissioner Thyssen said during his visit to the Committee on European Affairs: you really do not want to have an indexing of child pay, because that is too much administrative trouble for you. It was typically eurocratarrogance for full screw. And so, in this case too, small Denmark was corrupted by the chief priests in Brussels and, just as we can see in the directory of the small improvements which the British agreement, after all, brought about, we can look forward to a giant bill as a result of the British withdrawal from the European Union through the subsequent collection of the expenses paid by the British Government and the abolition of the existing rebate arrangements. It is therefore also the view of the Danish People's Party that Danish citizens must be asked again about membership of the EU. Time and again the Danes have been asked for more EU; never have the Danes been asked for less EU. Once the British agreement has been negotiated, the Danes must be asked again, and this time the issue must be about smaller EU.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324130515	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments. First, it's from sir. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324130521	I notice that Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth attaches great importance to listening to the popular currents, but the truth is that the one he listens to is Putin. The Danish People's Party is completely in the pocket of Russia and Putin. As we can see, a number of the leading politicians who are running for the Danish People's Party have become lapdogs, diving lame tails for Russian foreign policy, and the speech we heard here might as well have been liked by Lavrov or Putin himself. I really think it should be said here that the Danish People's Party's policy that the European Union should disband the policies of other parties is, moreover, a follow-up to what Russia currently wants. I don't think that makes any impression on Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, he doesn't care, he's on Russia's team in this, but I still think it should be said. If he has a comment on it, I would be happy to hear it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324130619	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324130621	At any rate, I take note of the fact that Mr. Holger K. Nielsen must know something about what it is like to stick with Russia, since Mr. Holger K. Nielsen belongs to a party whose then party leader, Mr. Gert Petersen, often went to dinner with Russian top people, then in Soviet disguise. So, of course, you always have to pay a little attention when someone who really needs to know something about this sort of thing speaks out, but I can say to Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, that I do not know if Vladimir Putin listens to what I say, but I do not listen to what Vladimir Putin says. I have the impression, like all sorts of other countries on this planet, that Russia is an autocrat, really is not a democracy, but a dictatorship, but I do not have any idea that Russia and Russian troops are necessarily down in Købmagergade the day after tomorrow. I just have to say that I feel that for some reason there are some politicians in Western Europe who have a desire to launch a new cold war between Russia and the Western countries. I think that's unwise. I think it is wise to talk to Russia, I think it is wise to talk to Putin, whatever one might think of Russia's actions in Crimea and Ukraine.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324130737	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324130738	Today we are talking about the European Union, and the truth is that the entire right-wing populist wave that is currently in Europe and that wants the European Union to break up is running in its entirety, exactly the same track as Russia is doing, and there are close links between the right-wing movement, of which the Danish People's Party is also a part, and Russia. That is very clear, for example. by Mrs Marie Krarup and her activities, but also by the Danish People's Party at all, and those with whom they are with, so I think it is important to say here that the policy that the Danish People's Party stands for, where Europe is to break up, where we have to return to what we knew in the 1930s, is a policy that Russia wants to strengthen Putin's power.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324130828	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324130829	It's a conspiracy theoretic nonsense, like Mr. Knox. Holger K. Nielsen contributes fully in line with when Niels Harrit travels land and rich around with lectures that the U.S. government ordered the planes that were to fly into the World Trade Center on September 11, 2001. I have never had a meeting with anyone from the Russian embassy. I doubt that there are quite a lot of people from the Danish People's Party, if any, who do. On the other hand, I have to say that the Socialist People's Party has had a record which says sparto in terms of cooperating with undemocratic regimes and conducting fifth column activities in Denmark. So I think that Mr. Holger K. Nielsen was supposed to keep a more sober tone.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324130914	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324130917	Thank you. And thank the rapporteur for a colourful and dramatic speech. I have a very simple question. For the rapporteur said that one would like to look at these rules on what people are entitled to in relation to social benefits; this is that people can look for jobs in other countries if it is difficult to find jobs where you are and that people can go to another EU country and live up to the rules on job search for 6 months instead of 3 months. The rapporteur was a bit out in favour of people going on a bathing vacation. But is it not true that all citizens, whether we are talking about Denmark or the European Union, must abide by those rules? I do not think I see anything about the rule being that you should go on a bathing vacation, but actually look for a job.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324131000	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324131003	Well, formally, it's like sir. Rasmus Nordqvist says, yes, correct. But I don't know if Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist is aware of the difficulty that Danish municipalities may have in contacting Bulgarian municipalities in checking whether a Danish unemployed person or a person who has earned Danish unemployment benefit is now actively seeking employment in Bulgaria. Actually, I don't think it's quite easy. In fact, I believe that it is an insurmountable task to ask Danish municipal employees to keep an eye on what Danish and other European citizens who are entitled to Danish benefits are doing in relation to job search outside the country's borders. I have to say that I understand if you give up calling Siófok in advance and talk to some Eastern European official who does not know English, Danish, German or any other language. It's just not easy. That says something about the way in which the European Union is orchestrated today is not appropriate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324131105	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324131109	I probably do not share the great distrust of the citizens, namely that they should take a bathing vacation when it comes to looking for a job because they want to build a future. So it is, in any case, among other things. where our ways part. Then it is an interesting question that the rapporteur raises, and surely we have to ask whether it is such a problem to keep tabs on the control methods that are in relation to job search, rather than to stand and make fantasies that Danish job seekers who are trying to find work in other EU countries must suddenly lie on beaches under parasols. So, I think it is a strange distrust agenda to have in relation to Danish citizens who go out to try to find a job.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324131145	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324131148	One can easily choose the approach and approach of the alternative to politics, in other words sit back and believe in the good of all people. I am just not quite sure that it is necessarily conducive to getting a good result at the end. I just have to say that it is already the case today that you can export your services and that it is already the case today that it is very difficult for municipalities to follow up on the citizens who are looking for jobs in other countries or are allegedly looking for jobs in other countries. In Denmark, therefore, we have to be available for the labour market in order to be able to benefit from public services. I think that is a proper principle. But it is just a bit problematic if it is the case that you can really avoid it by going abroad.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324131227	Then it's mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324131230	Thank you. When you hear Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth's sulphur-producing svada against the EU, one might well get the idea that in the Danish People's Party one is almost against the EU and perhaps even would recommend the Danes to vote no to the EU if there were the referendum that Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth in his speech was told that they wanted to. I'm gonna go in there and I'm gonna go over there and I'm gonna go over there and I'm gonna go over there and I'm gonna go over there and I'm gonna go over there and I'm gonna go over there and I'm gonna go over there and I'm gonna go over there and I'm gonna go over
ParlaMint-DK_20170324131307	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324131310	No, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen doesn't overinterpret anything. The Danish People's Party's programme of principles states that the Danish People's Party is opposed to the European Union's political union. I even think it is the first line of our work programme that says it. However, this is not linked to the fact that we are opposed to some form of European cooperation. We are opposed to the process of European cooperation since 1992. We were in favour of the single market, we were in favour of the 1992 process, but we are opposed to the establishment of a political dimension, a political superstructure which is moving towards the transfer of more and more power to Strasbourg and Brussels. We want a different agenda for the European Union, we want it to be clear now that there will be less EU. We want the single market to become the focus of the way in which the European Union acts again and then to drop a great deal of the common legislation, which is otherwise. However, we would prefer it to happen within the European Union, but we can, of course, at a time when it is said that we have to give it up, and then we have to sit down. However, in any event, the Danes must be given the opportunity to take a position, since they have not had the opportunity since 1972 to make their views known in relation to membership.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324131424	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324131427	I just don't understand what the point of a referendum is if you don't want us out. Then I do not understand why there should be a referendum at all, because that certainly does not make much sense. So 1992 was 25 years ago, and I remember that very well, because other exciting things happened in 1992: we became European champion of football. I just have to understand it correctly, because what the Danish People's Party is advocating is that we should then be involved in some European cooperation which does not exist. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20170324131500	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324131503	No, what I very squarely plead for is that the government takes the stand to choose, I think it's model no. Two of Jean-Claude Juncker's five models in his White Paper, i.e. that the EU should move back towards and concentrate on the internal market and not so much more than that. That is really what I am calling for. But what I'm saying is, for example, if you're... Now opts for a model that involves a federal government. It is one of the other models that Juncker points to. It may well be that we get to where we say we have to state very clearly that we must have an resignation because we simply cannot accept the conditions under which we operate in the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324131539	Then it's Mrs. Christina Egelund, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324131543	Thank you. Well, we have the views and the visions that we now have. They're different, and that's fine. This was a little black end, I think you can say. There are many things I disagree with, but I think that what the rapporteur said, with which I disagreed most on a specific level, was the attack on the free movement of workers and, in fact, also on the Europeans and, to a large extent, the Eastern Europeans who come to Denmark and take on a job. I fully recognise that this can be dealt with differently, and so we do. I just wanted to ask the rapporteur to take a look at and acknowledge the fact that the Europeans who come to Denmark and work through the free movement of workers are overall a socio-economic gain for Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324131628	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324131632	I don't know anything about that. And the reason why I know nothing about it is that no calculations have been made showing opposing benefits, that is to say, in the sense that when an Eastern European or another European employee takes on a job in Denmark, there is, in principle, at least as long as there is a Danish unemployed person who could have taken on the job in question. This means that, in principle, we are paying a transfer income to the Dane, who then does not get the job that this EU citizen is doing. I do not have an overview of it, because I am not aware of calculations which show what a minus item it might be. It is clear that if you look in isolation at the fact that some Eastern Europeans are coming here and paying some money, it can only be an income. That goes without saying. But if it is not offset for what it costs society to pay transfer income to people who might as well have taken that job, then it is impossible to answer the question asked by the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324131726	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324131729	But calculations have been made on this and, if they are not known to the rapporteur, I should like to send them to the rapporteur. Indeed, calculations have been made which show that even if the transfers that may circulate between countries and go directly into workers' pockets are included, this is a socio-economic gain for Denmark. So I just think that the Danish People's Party owes it to the Danes to explain that if you want to remove a large part of the Eastern Europeans who work in Denmark, pay taxes and contribute to the economy, where should the money come from? Who is going to do that work, and how are we going to cover the well-being gap that this will mean in practice if you want to drop the financial gain these people are for Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20170324131808	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324131811	I look forward to seeing the calculations that Mrs Christina Egelund is talking about, because I haven't seen them, and I think, if I'm to be honest, that Mrs Christina Egelund may have taken her mouth a little too full there. But of course that must be up to Mrs Christina Egelund herself. It may be that Mrs Christina Egelund was busy with something else while, but I actually said very specifically in my rapporteur's speech that it is not the case that we necessarily believe that there should be zero Eastern European employees coming to Denmark. What matters to us is that we have to decide for ourselves how many people are coming, and we have to decide for ourselves under which conditions they work here and under what conditions they, for example. is entitled to Danish social welfare benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324131846	Then it's mr. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324131850	Thank you. Prior to the 2014 election campaign, it was, after all, a central theme for the Danish People's Party to combat fraud and fraud in the EU. Since then, I think the picture has become a little more muddy and may have faded into Polish pens. Against this background, I would like to hear from the Danish People's Party's EU rapporteur whether it is still the position of the Danish People's Party that fraud and fraud should be combated in the EU and what the Danish People's Party will do precisely to strengthen its efforts.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324131929	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324131931	On the first part of the question, I can just answer yes. To the second part of the question, I believe that in reality it is also very much a question of sanitising some of the arrangements that the European Union has. I mean, like... I have never understood the principle of structural funds. That is an obvious target for fraud. This applies to agricultural aid, which we are in favour of being scrapped. It is also well known that there is widespread fraud and fraud within it. So it's just to make a few suggestions on where to start.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324132000	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324132002	Well, there is no doubt that there are huge problems with fraud and fraud in the European Union and that, unfortunately, it is a problem that is growing if you look at the error rate, as we are looking at, among other things. discusses in Parliament's Committee on Europe. But grabbing your own bosom is always a good place to start, and now there have been many controversial cases about the Danish People's Party and their use of EU funds, i.e. whether they have gone to something wrong. Therefore, I would like to hear from the Danish People's Party: What will you do to grab your own bosom in this area and avoid becoming a part of the swindle yourself?
ParlaMint-DK_20170324132040	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324132042	It was an awful lot of insinuations, as Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen was able to list within a few minutes, and Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen is welcome to join us. I can only say that I am not aware of the fact that something has happened which has been the subject of legal action or that it has been established that there has been any fraud as far as the Group of the Danish People's Party in the European Parliament is concerned. I have found that, for example, in defined areas there are areas where there are no specific areas. in relation to the size of a flag on a ship, doubts have been raised as to whether EU funds could be used for what they have been used for. But I have no knowledge that anything fraudulent should have happened by anyone.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324132126	Then it's mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324132132	Thank you. We understand that the Danish People's Party wants a referendum on our EU membership. The first question is: can the rapporteur elaborate on the wording of such a referendum? So, is it just: should Denmark resign from the EU or not? Or is there a more refined wording that may not involve full resignation, given that the rapporteur is beginning to talk about the different scenarios in the new White Paper that Juncker has written? The second question is: Has the Danish People's Party considered what, if any, will be done, one day after the Danes may have voted out of the EU? For I personally believe that it is a morass in Britain now that the consequences of voting out have not been made clear at all and have no plan on how to negotiate with the EU system about its connection to the internal market, etc. What is the plan of the Danish People's Party if Denmark votes out of the EU?
ParlaMint-DK_20170324132233	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324132236	At least we will now have the opportunity to follow what is going on in the United Kingdom in the aftermath of the vote. And that is, in all its simplicity, the main reason why the Danish People's Party, unlike the Enhedslisten, does not go out and demand a referendum now on Danish EU membership • because we must of course learn from Britain. We must learn from the fact that on certain lines Britain may not have been fully prepared to go further on the question of withdrawal. We must learn from that. And it is clear that once we have learned from it, it will also be easier to deal with the day when it may be that we in the Parliamentary Assembly have received support to hold a referendum, subsequently held a referendum, and then it has fallen out with the result that Denmark has to follow Britain.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324132325	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324132328	But does not the Danish People's Party give it any thought at all when you see how exceptionally complicated it is in many areas and how great interests, both strategic, political interests, but in particular economic and trade policy interests, Britain is abandoning its position vis-à-vis a small country like Denmark with 5.5 million inhabitants, 6 million on a very good day, with very limited size compared to the economy, but which in turn is deeply dependent on being able to export our goods to the rest of the internal market? Does it not make any impression about thinking about reforming things from within, rather than embarking on a not very viable path, throwing everything up in the air and stepping out?
ParlaMint-DK_20170324132422	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324132425	No, it doesn't. However, if the questioner had taken the trouble to listen to what I was saying, he would have heard that I said that I have said so until several times now - that we really prefer to see an internal reformation of EU cooperation. We must then just note that there may be a time when that hope will be a vain hope, something that cannot be done. And as I also said, well, we must learn from the British. That is why we must first have that vote as soon as we have an agreement between Britain and the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324132456	Then it is Mrs Zenia Stampe, the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324132459	You have to mean what you want, even if you are in a minority. I and my party may know that better than anyone else. But perhaps this is something that is not always so present for the Danish People's Party, because I have heard Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth talks about the EU as if he were speaking on behalf of the people. It's not more than a few days ago I was on the deadline with mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, where he was just talking about the frustrations of the people and the critical and sceptical approach of the people towards the European Union. That's why I'd just like to have mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth to relate to the last figure I have at least been able to sniff out, namely that 83 per cent. of the Danes are positive towards the EU. Recognizes Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth that the Danish People's Party is in a minority here and that the Danish People's Party does not reflect the people in this question? On the contrary, the Danish People's Party represents a very small selection of the people.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324132557	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324132600	Now I think we should be careful not to put too much into opinion polls. I think there are some parties here who recommended a yes in a referendum in December 2015 that will agree with me. So I think Mrs. Zenia Stampe might have to keep her enthusiasm a little bit. I believe that there is deep dissatisfaction in the Danish population with the existing EU cooperation. In order to use a Liberal Alliance expression, I believe that in the Danish people too, in the light of the changes that Brexit has been expressing and which the new American administration has been expressing, perhaps some have got a little thin stomach and have become a little nervous about what can happen now if we turn our back on the European Union and the European Union turn our backs on us. That's perfectly understandable, I understand. But let us now see, if we get there, that we get a referendum, how that referendum is going to come out, and then let us see who gets right.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324132700	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324132703	But a majority of the Danes are not interested in a referendum at all, because that is what has been asked. And a fairly large majority is not interested in getting into a situation like that in which we can see Britain standing right now. That is why I also think that the answer I received was a little woolly, because the Danish People's Party simply does not want to recognise that in this area one is in a minority. There you are not in line with your people; you represent that, and it is perfectly legitimate to take a position that a minority has. But it is not the will of the people, the desire of the people, that we should vote on the European Union or that we should leave the European Union. This is not a question, it is just a statement, because I know that if I asked the question, I would get the same answer again, namely a stepping water. I just want to take this opportunity to say that the Danish People's Party does not represent the people in this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324132752	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324132755	Well, I don't even want to be polemical at the expense of Mrs Zenia Stampe, so let me just say quietly that all referendums in this country that has been about the European Union have shown a deep division among the Danish people. But they have also shown and it is essential that this otherwise representative Parliamentary Assembly at no one For a far, far larger part of the Danish population than the corresponding part of the Folketing is much more critical of the EU. When it comes to specific votes, the result is often a "no" and, fortunately, because the Danes are a wise people.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324132834	Then we reached the point of being able to thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Jan E. Jørgensen from the Left Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324132850	Thank you. In addition to thanking you for your welcome, I would also like to thank the Foreign Minister for an excellent and comprehensive statement on the development of EU cooperation. As the Minister's statement also clarifies, it has, I think, been an eventful year, and it has been in both good and bad. There have been major challenges, but they have also given rise to an inward look, and we have been given the opportunity to discuss how we can strengthen and improve European cooperation. Brexit has, of course, been a challenge. We have never before been in a situation where a Member State has chosen to leave the Union completely. Negotiations on Britain's withdrawal from the European Union have therefore filled a great deal with the agenda, and while we in the Left regret having lost a close friend and ally in the European Union, we naturally hope that we can continue to have good and rewarding cooperation with Great Britain. Despite Brexit, I assess the refugee and migration crisis to have been the EU's biggest challenge in 2016. When the refugee and migration crisis seriously accelerated in 2015, particular attention was paid to the fact that control of the EU's external borders was not good enough. As a result, several Member States closed their national borders, even in Sweden and also here in Denmark, at the Danish-German border, border controls have been introduced. It is important for me to make it clear that border controls are, after all, temporary and in accordance with the Schengen Borders Code, and we will continue to do so for as long as it is necessary, but not anymore. Denmark cannot stem the flow of migration alone, and that is why the Heads of State or Government of the European Union reached an agreement with Turkey last year. In addition, the EU has established a number of migration partnerships with third countries with the aim of halting irregular migration and encouraging the return of illegal aliens. It is a strength that through the European Union we can adopt these major intergovernmental and, above all, effective agreements, because cross-country actions have ensured that we have reduced the number of refugees and migrants coming to Europe, and we have reduced the number of people drowned in the waves of the Mediterranean, and we can help even more people in their vicinity. So the challenges have made us more aware of the weaknesses of the EU project, but they have also made us aware of the Union's strengths. In my view, we Danes said 'no' to a strengthening in the eyes of the Left when, unfortunately, in December 2015, we voted against abolishing the reservation of law and replacing it with an opt-in system. This means that from 1 May this year we will no longer be able to participate fully in police cooperation or have full and unimpeded access to Europol's databases, which is, of course, an important and effective tool in the fight against cross-border crime and terrorism. It is a challenge for the safety and security of the Danes. However, I would like to point out that in December 2016, our Prime Minister negotiated a really nice agreement, so we have now reached some important steps further. Denmark has a closer relationship with Europol than some other third countries, for example Norway, and where we still have access to the EIS database, however, in such a slightly backward Storm P-like way, but it will work, at least in the short run. So let us hope that the agreement, although only the second best, can create good conditions for the important work of the police to ensure security for us Danes. Unfortunately, the rest of the legal reserve and the legislative acts we voted on are not included, but let us see what the future holds. A strength of EU cooperation, in which Denmark continues to take a greater and greater part, is the internal market. At a time when new walls and protectionism seem to be gaining ground on the political agenda, defending a strong and global Europe with open markets is more important than ever. The internal market can be further strengthened, we can have a digital internal market, we can have an internal market in energy, and then we can also make free trade agreements in even greater rounds than we are today. A good example of the fact that there is still hope ahead is the EU's free trade agreement with Canada, the one called CETA, which, after several years of negotiations, is finally falling into place. I can tell you that the Committee on European Affairs was in Canada to hear about the Canadians' expectations of the agreement, and the Canadians simply expect that it could be some kind of plan B if or when the United States takes seriously President Trump's more protectionist policy. So Canada, which today is very dependent on being able to export to the United States, simply expects them to be able to export more to Europe instead, and that would be welcome for both sides. So I look forward to the fact that we in the Danish Parliament will soon be able to approve and thus ratify the agreement definitively, an agreement that will remove more than 99%. of the tariff barriers currently existing between the EU and Canada and an agreement that is expected to mean an annual saving of nearly 4 billion. kr. for European exporters. We will probably be one of the very first countries to ratify the agreement, and I think that is quite gratifying, because it is really the core EU, that is, the conclusion of free trade agreements. So I will allow myself to round off by taking the optimistic glasses on it may be that I have to lend them to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party on occasion, so that he could look a little brighter on life because although it is true that 2016 has offered challenges for EU cooperation, the handling of these challenges has also created the foundation for hopefully getting even better European cooperation in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324133532	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324133536	Thank you. Yeah, I'll take note of that, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen has put on the EU dress today, blue and yellow. I assume that it is on today's occasion, and not Sweden's colors. I would really like to hear Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, what Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen really likes the proposal which started out as an Austrian proposal and which has since become a German-French proposal to set up asylum centres in the neighbourhood, provided, of course, that asylum will not be sought in the individual European countries. How does Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen on such a proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20170324133623	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324133629	First of all, I'm glad we have such a bit of each other's dress that Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth was not wrong about my dress and thought that I had stepped under Brøndby's tabs, for that would be the ultimate humiliation for a FCK fan like me. It is rather the European Union if it is finally to be something. The question is whether it is possible to say that asylum should be sought somewhere in the neighbourhood rather than coming to a Member State of the European Union. So there are a number of sensible arguments for the principle itself, because today it is very much a matter of chance, who gets asylum, because they are the ones who have been able to afford to pay a smuggler, those who have succeeded in coming here, those who have been picked up by a boat and have not drowned. There is a very large element of coincidence in who is given asylum, and it would be more appropriate if we could have the process somewhere in the neighbourhood, instead of that being the case. So it's definitely thoughts you can work on.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324133740	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324133743	Should it then be the case that it is a European matter to decide which of these people are being offered asylum, and if so, and in any case how many refugees could Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen sees for himself that we could receive in Denmark per year. Years?
ParlaMint-DK_20170324133810	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324133813	I cannot answer any of the questions in concrete terms. In other words, Denmark has a legal reservation, which in the area of foreigners and refugees means that we are a little out of touch with what the other countries might decide for. And with regard to the number coming to Denmark: I find it very difficult to participate in such a number game. At any rate, I note that the number that came to Denmark last year was very, very high and also higher than we could handle. That's why we have, among other things. With the good help of the Danish People's Party, a number of initiatives have been launched which have brought down the number. But just being able to put the right figure on how many Denmark can handle in this area depends also on how we solve integration problems, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324133901	Thank you to the rapporteur, there are no more brief comments. The next one is sir. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324133915	Thank you. It is a widespread myth if you see around the media picture that the people of Europe and, for example, in Denmark do not like the European Union because they do not know what the project is about. It's my firm belief that that myth doesn't hold water. Both here in Denmark and in the EU countries in general, ordinary employees experience pressure on their pay and working conditions. Social dumping, where Eastern European colleagues are heavily exploited by greedy employers, is a major problem in many Danish jobs. This insecurity experienced by social dumping is undoubtedly keeping many Danes awake at night: will I now have a job tomorrow? Can I keep the job if I refuse to do dangerous and grueling work, which I should really say no to? Yes, there is an international race against the bottom in terms of pay and working conditions. This does not just happen in the form of social dumping. We also see this in terms of relocation of jobs. Companies move to where environmental protection is lowest, trade union rights are a city in Russia and the working environment is something you can frankly open up and... etc. i. The current neoliberal globalisation puts the consideration of large companies above the consideration of people and the environment. It puts pressure on ordinary people. The rights that generations before us have won in our nation states are being pushed by the current global race to the bottom. If you look at the statement by the Foreign Minister and listen to the European Commission and probably also the statement that will be made on the occasion of the 60th anniversary of the Treaty of Rome, then the European Union will go further towards deregulation, not least in the free trade agreements that the European Union is trying to conclude with Canada and the United States right now. Large multinational companies are given the right to sue Denmark if they are dissatisfied with democratic decisions on, for example, improving worker, environmental and consumer safety. Such cases will not be dealt with by the large companies in Danish courts. No, they must be run in a special court that can only be used by companies. It is therefore far-reaching rights which are granted exclusively to companies and where using the option costs so much money that it will really only be an option if you have a lot of money on the coffin floor. In other words, it is a multinational company. The EU-Canada agreement, CETA, and the EU-US free trade agreement, TTIP, will undoubtedly be a celebration for the multinationals if they are implemented. But it will harm the people, the environment and the rights of all of us. Honestly, why did the Nordic welfare societies really succeed in becoming as rich and well-developed as our society is today? Was it because of succumbing to demands from large corporations and unleashing the ravaged market forces? No, it wasn't. On the contrary, the Nordic welfare societies have been created because we harnessed raw capitalism, created an organised labour market with strong trade unions and let the strongest shoulders carry the heaviest load. The Nordic welfare societies were created by the workers' movement, the women's movement and strong popular institutions, which with activity had the opportunity to influence the decision-makers in the Folketing, had the opportunity to put pressure on and change the course of things. I think it is crucial that we do not flush the baby with the bath water. We cannot solve the problems that global capitalism has created for ordinary employees, both here in Denmark and in the rest of Europe, by deregulating even more. The problems we are seeing right now are precisely the result of deregulation. No, we need to replace the current race to the bottom with a sustainable globalisation that sets minimum standards for how much we must pork in the environment and exploit the workforce, but at the same time allows countries to take the lead and democratically adopt improvements for the benefit of employees, consumers and our environment. It is clear that the government does not want to go in this direction, and it is also quite clear that it is not what the European Commission and the majority of EU countries want either. Instead, you will continue in the same groove as today and yet. As a solution to the European Union's crisis, the European Commission has proposed armament, increased military cooperation. This will undoubtedly be good for the French and German arms industries, but we cannot solve Europe's current problems of armaments. We cannot eliminate the massive youth unemployment and poverty in southern Europe and other countries in crisis with more cuts. We cannot put an end to the insecurity felt by Danish employees by continuing so-called structural reforms which increase retirement age, undermining the security of the labour market and whip the unemployed and the sick in order to increase the supply of work and the queue at the job centres. The path which the Foreign Minister is pursuing with the focus on free trade, with the focus on an internal market that we are experiencing today creates social dumping and insecurity, is not a path that will eliminate the dissatisfaction of the people with the European Union they are experiencing today. That is why, of course, the Minister for Foreign Affairs cannot get support for it from the Enhedslisten. Instead, I would like to urge the government to take a different approach; to work for security in the labour market; to take massive action against social dumping; to work for us here in the Folketing to adopt improvements, for example in consumer protection, without being stopped by the EU's internal market rules, which only all too often benefit businesses. It is absolutely essential that if we are to have cooperation in Europe that people like, they must feel that they have influence and codecision. It is not the situation today that people feel it, and it is not because they do not understand what is going on. It is quite simple because all too often they find that decisions are taken far beyond their heads and that the content of the decisions is not to their own advantage. This needs to be changed, and this is what Enhedslisten works for on a daily basis in the Parliamentary Committee on Europe. After all, it is no secret that we are not happy with the European Union, but that we are opponents of the European Union. But that does not change the fact that we are trying daily to draw the European Union in a more green, more solidarity, more sustainable and more democratic direction. This is what we are trying to do in Parliament's Committee on Europe, we are trying to do with proposals in this Chamber, and we will continue to do so, just as we will continue to cooperate with the fortunately in many ways growing left wing in Europe right now, who agree that the EU's reduction policy, the EU's attacks on social rights and on welfare must be stopped. We had the pleasure this autumn, in November, of holding a great conference for the left here in the Folketing. It was quite interesting to see that there is a situation in a large number of European countries, not least the hard-hit countries, where the left is strong, where there has been a move from having an experience of the European Union being positive, to the fact that the violent cut-back policy and social impoverishment that the European Union has pulled over the heads of the peoples of Greece, for example, against the will of the people themselves, in active opposition by the European Union to democratic decisions to put an end to the failed cut-off policy, leads to closer cooperation on the left in Europe and a growing criticism of the undemocratic and antisocial direction in which the European Union is moving. There is no doubt that the Enhedslisten and the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Enhedslisten and the government disagree very much as to what direction the EU should take. But it is also a good thing that we can have a debate today, where disagreements can meet and opinions can be broken and hopefully all of us can learn more from it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324134924	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324134929	Thank you. One cannot say that this was a surprising speech we heard here. That was exactly what EU opponents have said over the last 35 years, so there was not so much new in it. However, I still have one question to which I think it would be interesting to have an answer. I don't know if sir. Nikolaj Villumsen can relate to it, but yet I will put it, because I think it is important. It was sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, who had, I think, a very, very important point in that the situation in the Balkans is very dependent on the European Union, or rather, the fact that there has been an EU membership perspective in the Balkans, has been crucial to the stabilisation that has taken place following the terrible civil war in the 1990s in the former Yugoslavia. I'd like to know if Mr. Knox is here. Nikolaj Villumsen will recognise this and recognise that the European Union has had a very, very peace-making function in relation to it, and that it will cause very severe problems, as Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen quite rightly said if the membership perspective ends for Kosovo.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324135040	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324135044	But I think it can be fully acknowledged that the desire to be, what can be said, part of the cooperation that is taking place in the western part of Europe has been a driving force for positive and progressive forces in the Balkans and in the former former Yugoslavia. What I think is also a problem is the requirements with which the European Union meets these countries. For example, it has been seen in Croatia, which made a lot of changes, among others. Also, in order to join the European Union, there is a deterioration for employees and so on. So I do not think there is any doubt that the desire to join the European Community that is in Western Europe and the bloc that is there is a positive driving force. The problem is, after all, the content of the demands made by the European Union, which so often go beyond ordinary employees and provide a breeding ground for right-wing nationalist forces.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324135151	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324135154	What a fucking lirumlarum! What I'm asking is: Nikolaj Villumsen recognizes that the EU's membership perspective has been absolutely crucial for not cutting off the heads of each other in the Balkans any longer? Then you can discuss all sorts of things about whether the requirements have been in one way or another. But what is crucial is the prospect of membership for those countries; that they enter a community where they negotiate instead of tearing their heads off each other. It is a crucial democratic civilisation of the societies that are down there that you come in and get that opportunity. And that's what Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen wants to destroy by saying that he is in favour of the EU breaking up. Can he not see what Europe will be if the policy of Enhedslisten becomes a reality?
ParlaMint-DK_20170324135239	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324135243	Well, I'm not buying the argument that Holger K. Nielsen here and elsewhere puts forward, so either it's business as usual, or it's war and chaos. On the contrary, we are fighting on the part of the Enhedslisten to create European cooperation which is democratic, solidarity and sustainable. And that is precisely a Community that must be able to bring the Balkan countries with it. In other words, the problem with the European Union today is that when you cut back, when you reduce welfare, create insecurity for ordinary employees, it gives rise to a breeding ground for right-wing radicals. That's one of them. also what we have seen in some of the Eastern European countries that have joined, Poland and Hungary, not least, where there is a very, very worrying authoritarian development and where the European Union has no tools to counter this authoritarian process.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324135335	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324135339	Thank you. And thank you for your speech as with the content it had was as expected. What you always miss in a speech that is so critical is also a balance and an insight that there are pluses and minuses about everything. After all, I share the analysis of the challenges far along with the rapporteur, but not the analysis of what is the means to do about it. I would really like to hear the rapporteur say a little about some of the things that I know good green progressive forces across Europe just now: that we have a strong European Union in which we have taken joint decisions that keep individual countries on environmental requirements, on water environment requirements and on climate action, where we now see that we are also addressing the non-quota sectors, etc.; it is precisely because we have a European Union in which some binding decisions have been taken that we have to live up to. So could we not get some nuances into the very harsh criticism of the whole project that I heard in the rapporteur's speech?
ParlaMint-DK_20170324135447	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324135449	Well, I think it is important in what I said to note that I said that we should work for minimum standards. This is something we should be working for both in Europe and globally, so that we do not compete on the lowest common denominator in the environmental field and do not see a situation where companies simply move to where they can pig the most or where there are the worst labour rights. That is why, in the Enhedslisten, we are very much in favour of cooperation on minimum standards, but are not doing this maximum harmonisation, this total harmonisation that the European Union is doing, which prevents countries from taking the lead. Because I think it is important to be able to take the lead and inspire each other and thereby push forward, which is very much needed in the green area.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324135540	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324135542	But that's not true. It is true that there is total harmonisation in some rules, but in other rules it is precisely minimum standards that are being pursued so that minimum pressure is constantly being exerted. I just think it is worth noting what is happening in England, i.e. who really wept over Brexit, because then we will see that it was the green organisations because it is the EU that has kept the English Government up to some green standards. I simply believe that this binding community is so crucial here, because these are cross-border challenges which we cannot just say are national issues. And does the rapporteur not see the positive side of this? I'm actually just asking for the balance of it, that is, to see that there are pluses and minuses about everything. I know where the balance sheet stands for the Enhedslisten, but is it possible, after all, to recognise that this actually has a value for sustainable conversion and for some environmental standards across European countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20170324135635	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324135637	Actually, I think I'm really fond of Mr. Knox. Rasmus Nordqvist's question, because there is a prejudice about Enhedslisten's EU policy, which is that we are always against, but I can say quite specifically that proposals to improve the minimum standard in the field of the environment or consumer protection, for example, will be voted in favour in the European Committee; these are areas we will always protect. Where we want to be critical and against, if we are talking about total harmonisation that prevents us from taking the lead. So those positive things, like Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist describes will also be something that Enhedslisten will support.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324135715	Then it's mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324135718	Thank you. It's not a prejudice that Enhedslisten is always against. I am in favour of Enhedslisten actively engaging in discussions on various matters, and I think that this is something that we are doing well, all due respect for, but we know, and that is what was the reaction after the British voted out of the European Union, that there was a demand from the Enhedslisten that a referendum should now also be held in Denmark for Denmark to resign from the European Union. Following on from Mr. Holger K. Nielsen's question is that every time you ask Enhedslisten what is to replace it, it is said that we must have broader and better and more binding cooperation between several European countries, for example on the basis of the Council of Europe. Excuse me, some of the countries that Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen and his party criticize most of all, after all, are members of the Council of Europe, Russia, Turkey, all sorts of other countries where there are deeply critical and undemocratic conditions. Well, then, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen does not explain to me simply: if you resign from the European Union as you have wanted in the Enhedslisten, what on earth should you replace? And then the second question: I think it is excellent that the Enhedslisten has good discussions with the rest of the left in Europe, but is it not true that the Enhedslisten is largely the only ones in the circle of parties and movements on the left who believe that their respective countries should resign from the European Union?
ParlaMint-DK_20170324135841	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324135843	What Enhedslisten has said, and I think this is important to be aware of, is that we think that there is a great deal wrong in the European Union. We have been trying to change that for a long time. We have fought against social dumping, against restrictions and the right to take the lead in improving the environment and consumer safety. What we have then reported out, and what we still think, is that we should (1) work for this, that is what I have just been calling on the government to do, (2) Denmark should renegotiate our relationship with the European Union, and when that renegotiation has happened, we believe that it should be put to a referendum. So that's like what we've been saying. It is not a referendum on Danish membership tomorrow. It is an attempt to change the European Union in a more solidarity, sustainable direction and renegotiate Denmark's relationship so that we achieve what we want. We are not alone on the left at all on the contrary.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324135951	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324135953	Now I regret that the rapporteur was interrupted because I was actually quite interested in hearing: who else on the European left of parties and organisations stands shoulder to shoulder with the Enhedslisten in the demand for their respective nation states to resign from the European Union? I can think of very, very few. On a very good day it may be the Swedish left-wing party or something. I cannot think of any of the parties or movements in southern Europe that Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen is talking about right now rebelling against the reduction policy, etc., which in turn believes that the consequence should be that their nation states should resign from the European Union because they are quite well aware that it will be a disaster in relation to their states' economies basically, and secondly, it will make it much harder to regulate the raw capitalism, as Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen spoke about in his rapporteur's speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324140044	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324140046	Unfortunately, that is the case here: time is short. However, if you take the strategy I just presented to you to work for change, to renegotiate your country's relationship with the European Union and then a referendum and to leave the European Union or the euro in the extreme, if you cannot have a change, then there is a conference that we have held here in Copenhagen, for example, on the Enhedslisten side of Plan B, as you call it, Plan B, in relation to going against the EU's blackmail, where Podemos, where Die Linke, where the Nordic Left Party, where the Left from the Netherlands, representatives from Greece, Italy, Portugal and Slovenia, participated, took part. So it is by no means a view with which Enhedslisten stands alone.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324140143	Thank you, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen. There are no more brief comments. We shall move on to the next rapporteur, Mrs Christina Egelund from the Liberal Alliance. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324140156	Thank you, President. I would also like to thank the Foreign Minister for his statement on the development of European cooperation over the past year. When you read that statement, it is clear that the European Union is facing a number of challenges: relations with Russia, continued cooperation with the United States during a new administration, the fight against terrorism, migration, external border control, growth, employment and many other things. Add two crucial choices in two of the largest Member States, Germany and France, which can have a decisive influence on the strength of cooperation. I think it is not too much to say that European cooperation in some areas is in the middle of a turning-point. Here we must know our visiting time, stick together and influence cooperation in the direction that we believe is most beneficial to the citizens of Europe. Progress is also being made and the European Union has acted on many of the challenges that we have experienced in recent years. The flow of refugees and migrants that we saw in Europe last summer, when people in numbers wandered through Germany on the run from poverty and war, has come under better control than it was. This is a good example of how important the European Union is when it comes to the big issues; issues where a small country like Denmark is difficult to act alone. The European Union also plays an important role in its efforts to stop refugees from taking the deadly trip across the Mediterranean from Libya to Italy. Our influence on the other side of the Mediterranean is greater when we stand together in Europe. It can be fascinating to resort to easy solutions when it feels as if the world is breaking up and our core values, democracy, liberal freedoms and the rule of law are threatened by forces that are enemies of open, free societies. But closing our ears and closing our eyes and hoping that the problems will go away is not the solution. Because it is through international cooperation that we solve international challenges. When it comes to economic growth and prosperity, the importance of European cooperation can hardly be exaggerated. Denmark, like a small open economy, is totally dependent on trading with others. After all, not only as a society as a whole, we benefit greatly from the single European market, but also at the very close level of the individual citizen. Thanks to the single market and free trade, ordinary Danes have experienced enormous growth in their own private economy, and that is what the EU is best at, namely to create the framework for free cross-border trade by breaking down the protectionism that previously dominated trade opportunities between European countries. The alternative to the free internal market is free access for states to build a wall of barriers to trade around them. If we are also to see the same growth in prosperity and freedom in the future, the European Union must concentrate on its core task rather than interfering in too many things, which are ultimately best handled by the Member States or sometimes by the individual citizen. Therefore, Denmark must work to ensure that the EU is more efficient and more focused. We must ensure this together, not by going alone.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324140524	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324140528	Thank you. We're gonna have to bring it all along, sir. President. Look, there was a time when Mrs Christina Egelund was a candidate for the European Parliament for the Liberal Alliance. Before that election there was an article in Berlingske with Mr. Anders Samuelsen was on April 4, 2014, when Mr. Anders Samuelsen indicated that Mr. Anders Samuelsen felt that EU rules should be broken as far as the children's check was concerned. There was no reason to follow those rules, Mr. Anders Samuelsen. He added that they could threaten to throw us out, but it wouldn't happen anyway. So I would like to ask Mrs Christina Egelund: when are the rules on the children's check being broken?
ParlaMint-DK_20170324140627	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324140629	We should not break with EU rules, I would say to Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth. When you commit to something international, you have to abide by the agreements you make. The political statement contained in the article to which the Danish People's Party's EU rapporteur refers, and I assume that the record is correct, after all, is about the political direction in which the EU should move. I also said in my rapporteur's speech that there are plenty of things that we in the Liberal Alliance think the European Union should not interfere with. We mean, for example: It is not that it is a good idea for there to be common rules as to which welfare benefits are to be paid to whom. But this is something that we are trying to influence constructively in the cooperation and political battlefield of European cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324140718	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324140719	Mrs Christina Egelund therefore not only disagrees with the Foreign Minister, but she also disagrees with her President. 'Cause I'm reading it now, sir. Anders Samuelsen said in the article in question: "There is only one solution right now, and that is to break EU rules. It's the only solution there is. In the Liberal Alliance, we are ready to take any fines that may come from the European Union. They can come and threaten us with Denmark being kicked out. That's never gonna happen. ▪ That's what Mr. Anders Samuelsen once. Now I am asking one more question: has the Liberal Alliance changed its position so that the Liberal Alliance is no longer interested in breaking EU rules, or when can we expect the fines to come in?
ParlaMint-DK_20170324140800	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324140802	However, there is no need to break EU rules, because Europe has listened to the position, among other things. Liberal Alliance and others have. I also believe that the rapporteur's party shares the same view, precisely in this regard, in terms of regulating the level of welfare benefits to the cost levels in the respective countries. So it goes politically in the direction that we stated we thought it should go back in 2014 and we have not changed our position in that area. But it is clear that we are dealing with the reality we are in and, if we do not have to break the rules, of course we should not break the rules. That would be stupid.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324140840	Thank you to Mrs Christina Egelund. There does not seem to be any more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Nordqvist from the Alternative. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324140853	Thank you. And how appropriate it is that we are discussing European cooperation today. It is tomorrow that we can celebrate the 60th anniversary of the Treaty of Rome. That celebration happens in a time of wrestling. Now is the time to find out how to move forward with European cooperation. We also discussed this in the last debate on the statement, but it is, if possible, more urgent now, the week before Theresa May, the start of the Brexit negotiations. This gives us reason to look ahead, but to such an extent also back and remember why it was so important for us to join a European community, and of course also look forward and see how we can do so much better in the future. If we start by looking back, we all know the story. But at this time, it is a good thing to be reminded that the European Union is basically a peace project. At that time, peace was created on the basis of a liberal demonstration that if we trade with each other, we will be dependent on each other and therefore we will not go to war with each other. This does not mean that peace is equal to free trade, but peace is equal to what lies behind free trade, namely cooperation. When we work together, we get to know each other. When we get to know each other, the way to war and conflict becomes much harder and longer. Cooperation turned out to be so productive that together we had to solve issues other than just trade. We had to solve cross-border problems. And here it is particularly obvious for us to be very pleased with the enhanced cooperation in climate and environmental matters, which are some of the most pressing issues we face. In his statement, the Minister for Foreign Affairs mentions that EU cooperation is challenged by the weaker support of parts of the European population, and the big question is, of course, why the support is declining. Why does a large group of Europeans not think that European cooperation responds to the issues we face? Cooperation is best carried out on the condition that cohesion, and hence solidarity, is present. Unfortunately, we have to admit that these things are under intense pressure in these years. At home, we look at freedom of movement at a disadvantage because some people feel that it is printing their jobs and their job opportunities. The common denominator for much of the pressure that the European Union is experiencing is, in fact, that citizens do not feel that they benefit from the prosperity that all studies show that European cooperation has actually given us. At the same time, citizens get their ears full of the fact that every time there is a national problem, it is the EU's fault. Then it is down in the European Union that they have imposed something on us that makes us have had to make unpopular decisions. I simply think that we national politicians must stop always blaming the European Union every time we make an unpopular decision, because that is not the case. Firstly, we help to make those decisions, and secondly, there are very often many opportunities to implement the various decisions that have been taken. So I would like to say that if today, in this debate on the statement, we can agree to be truthful about when something is the fault of the European Union and when something is our own fault here in the Folketing, we would have come a very long way, and that would be a wonderful way to celebrate the Treaty of Rome tomorrow. However, the second is all the more specific about which policy areas we should pursue, so that citizens feel that European cooperation remains the answer to the cross-border issues that are relevant to resolving their everyday lives. The Heads of State or Government have decided to focus in particular on migration, security and economic growth. In his statement, the Foreign Minister states that this is also the direction in which the government wants European cooperation to take place. In fact, I do not agree with that, because these two essential factors have been forgotten: the social and environmental bottom line, which I believe is absolutely essential for cooperation to be present to all the citizens of the European Union. Migration is mentioned as a main focus of European cooperation, and I could not agree more that it is indeed a subject which is of great concern to us and which should be very much of our concern. European cooperation should make a massive effort to mitigate the reasons why people choose to make the difficult decision to leave their homes and take a long and perilous route to a neighbouring country or to Europe. We need to take action in relation to massive development aid for developing countries so that we can create stable societies where the people feel that there is a hope for a sustainable future and that there can also be no conflict. And then, when the refugee comes the long and perilous road to Europe, we should, of course, stand together in the Member States and distribute the refugees among us. This requires that we have the courage to be able to negotiate a key in place, as the Commission has proposed, and which it unfortunately seems to be turning our backs on several countries. Well, this is not the way I am talking about, as European cooperation is necessarily going at the moment, and we do not see, unfortunately, that the government is pushing on that path in terms of solidarity in the distribution of refugees. Instead, the Turkey Agreement and several similar agreements with other countries, as well as readmission agreements, are the main focus of attention. This is extremely worrying from the point of view of the alternative, because these agreements of various kinds will not solve the fundamental reasons why so many people choose to flee their homes. This merely makes us incredibly dependent on countries with dictatorial conditions such as Turkey, and we risk further destabilising a country like Libya, while sending refugees back to some places where we cannot guarantee their safety. So all in all, there is more than enough to do. And so that things don't get too gloomy. After all, the sun shines this Friday afternoon... I would actually like to end with hope, because I am actually hopeful on behalf of European cooperation. I am, not least because there is nothing like a good crisis that makes you come up with new solutions. That's actually what I think and hope is gonna happen. We are in a serious crisis in European cooperation and I believe that this can actually make us realise all the positive elements that are, all the positive elements that can emerge from cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324141548	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kenneth Kristensen Berth from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324141553	Thank you. I have been watching the development of the alternative since the party joined the Folketing, and that has been interesting. In fact, I think that where the alternative has been a work in progress in the past, one has to say that now is Mr. Uffe Elbæk descended with Denmark's most European-enthusiastic party. I remember that we were sitting at a European Committee meeting where all other parties were opposed to Denmark having to pay more to the European Union, but then Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist fresh and cowardly that he wanted to help pay this extra couple of billions to the EU. He thought it was wonderful because there are so many tasks to be done in the EU context. I think that is certainly a good thing, but now I am really going to try to move in the other direction, because I would really like to know if Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist could mention some areas that the EU should not take care of. Well, there are some areas that Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist believes that the EU should keep its hands off completely? It is really a very open and very good question for someone from the Alternative. Are there any areas that the European Union should not touch at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20170324141706	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324141706-2	There are plenty of areas where I do not think there should be EU directives and legislation, but where we can actually use EU cooperation. For example, we will be able to make it to the next stage. Thinking about infrastructure in Denmark, it is something we have to decide on here in the Folketing, but I always think it is important that we look and find out how we work with our close neighbours, and that is what we do through EU cooperation. So there are plenty of areas where decisions should not be taken at EU level, but where we can actually use the very strong coordinating tool, which is also in EU cooperation, very positively.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324141739	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324141740	The EU must not decide where the roads should go in Denmark, but the EU pays, among other things. for the roads, e.g. For the Ringsted track. But in reality it is we who pay; we just have the European Union to receive the money for us and then give it back. I'd like to ask Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist again: Is it only the roads? If I were asked that question, I think I would be able to mention the first 50 things that the European Union should not deal with, but that was just the thing about infrastructure, Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist could come on. Could there be other things, like Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist does not think that the EU should concern itself with?
ParlaMint-DK_20170324141817	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324141817-2	Yeah, there's plenty of stuff. Now I know that the questioner would be able to mention virtually all policy areas that could be imagined on this planet. It should be something that a small country like Denmark should take care of all alone, and we should close our eyes to the fact that there are actually other countries with which we can work together on these things. What I think is so important to point out in relation to the European Union is that it is about cooperation. We cannot close ourselves within ourselves and believe that we will solve things that way. It is also seen in the whole refugee issue where we can stand and applaud the fact that the Danish People's Party has got other parties involved in making border barriers, but that is not what solves anything. Because that is not what has meant anything for refugees to come to Denmark. No, in fact, the solutions found by other countries further south. So we don't have that idea that a small country can act completely on its own and close its eyes to cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324141910	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist. No one else was challenged for short remarks, so the next rapporteur is Mrs Zenia Stampe, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324141921	Thank you. It has been not just one but some turbulent years for the European Union and Europe. When Britain voted out of the European Union, I think there were many of us who began to see the black clouds gathering across Europe. Was this just the beginning of a movement that would cause the EU to collapse completely? Was that the first piece of the domino game where everyone else would fall, too? It has been my concern and I think many others are worried, and now, today, the concerns are not at all gone, but I look at the situation a little more optimistic. Some people have actually begun to talk about a reverse domino effect, because the uncertainty that the European Union and Europe have been pushed into has actually brought us closer together, and it has led us to work even more decisively to find concrete solutions to specific issues, among others. migration, security and economic growth. At the same time, the European Commission and all the Member States of the European Union have also engaged in a debate, not only concrete but also open and constructive, on the future of Europe. It is a work that I think is happening under the impression of what we see around us all over the world. This is among other things. Given the choice of Trump, which has meant that the liberal world order suddenly has no leader, the question is whether it is Europe that has to assume that leadership. Europe is also suddenly in the situation where we are not entirely sure that the United States will comply with the musketeered on which our security is largely based. Then there are Putin and Russia, who clearly do not respect the laws and rules of the international community and who show great aggressiveness. Then there is one area which is not so much talked about, but which nevertheless takes up a lot, and that is the economy. We are about to be this way through and over our crisis, but if we look into the future and look at the economies that are rushing out there right now, we can also see that Europe's position is so challenged. Right now we have three Member States that are on the top economic list in the world. Within the next few decades, the three countries may well all have been expelled from the list. That tells us something about Europe being a continent with a particularly strong position economically and as a norm, but that position is under threat. That is why we also need to focus on how to ensure that Europe is still a strong region, a strong economy. That is why it is important that we stand together, because together we are strong, and in this way we can put ourselves through and be what I heard yesterday a call rule makers instead of rule takers. That is a pretty good argument, I think, because the European Union was originally created for precisely that, as Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen also mentioned preventing us from smoking in the tots of each other. But it is also a project that can ensure that it is we who make the rules; it is not we who just follow them. Because what's in rule maker instead of rule taker? You can be when you have a strong economy and when you can play with your muscles when you, when you negotiate deals, actually have some muscles to play with. You're a rule maker, you're not a rule taker. That is also the argument for Denmark to be in the European Union at all. If we were not in the European Union, we would, after all, be following the rules of the European Union, because the European Union is our most important market. But by joining the European Union we are rule makers, we are not rule takers. But the thing about being the people who make the rules isn't just about being allowed to make our own rules and not just having to copy others'; it's also about being able to influence the rest of the world. For a country such as Denmark, which has very high ambitions in the area of climate, environment and health and safety at work and arranged conditions in the labour market, it is absolutely essential both that we can protect the high standards of ourselves, but also that we can help to draw the world in that direction. And we can do that by being rule makers and not rule takers and not just rule makers over our own relationship, but also all over the world. If we are to be able to do that, it takes strength, so we cannot do that alone as 5 million people. That is why it is absolutely crucial not only for our ability and ability to pursue our values here at home, but also for our ability to pursue those values in the rest of the world: there is the European Union incredibly necessary and important. We therefore look with concern, but also with great hope and some optimism, at the discussion taking place in the European Union right now, because we believe not only in this recognition that we are stronger if we stand together, but also in the fact that standing alone is not worth much. It may be that it means sovereignty on paper, but what is that sovereignty worth if it is the freedom to copy others? Is that not the situation in which Britain brings itself? Will they not just copy the standards and rules that we have in the European Union? We're their biggest export market. And if they are to make a trade agreement with Canada, will they not just copy the agreement that Canada has made with the European Union? Why would Canada make a new deal with Britain? There is, of course, something in relation to the free movement of workers in which Britain is given the opportunity to close the border in a different way than if they had remained in the European Union. In many other areas, however, it has to be said that the sovereignty they have gained by stepping out of the European Union is the sovereignty to copy the rest of us. All I'm saying is that it's so much more important that we stay in cooperation, so we help to make the rules instead of copying them, and so we can influence the rules in the direction that is typically Danish, which is about social responsibility and which is about sustainability. It is well known that we are a very EU-enthusiastic party in the Radical Left, I hear from the chair, but I would actually like to use the opportunity here today to thank the government and the three government parties for being part of this work, which is so important for Denmark and for Europe. We have also had tough discussions about the European Union, which, of course, has also been justified, but I am experiencing a broad commitment to the Danish Parliament, with the exception of a few parties, perhaps, a broad commitment not only to solving the problems facing the European Union but also to support the big project, because it is actually about our own self-determination, it is about codecision, it is about influence on the rest of the world. That is why I would like to sign up for the good work, as the government does in this regard, and that is why I am pleased that we are working on a joint opinion which we think is ambitious and also reflects the wishes we have not only for the future EU debate in Denmark but also for the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324142757	Thank you to Mrs Zenia Stampe. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324142803	We can start by saying that we know that something is wrong when the government gets praise from the Radical Left. It is then our job to try to get the government onto a policy that is sustainable and makes sense. But I have to say that it is rare for Mrs Zenia Stampe to surprise me, but Mrs Zenia Stampe did so with her imperial ambitions, because not only must Denmark make rules for itself and Europe, but for the whole world. It approaches the nearest George W. Bush's idea that we should go out into the world and save the world and create democracy around the world. Well, maybe that didn't go so well. But congratulations on the imperial ambitions. I would like to ask Mrs Zenia Stampe something else. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats always praises solutions of solidarity, among other things. In the area of asylum, too. I just want to ask: does the fact that Denmark has succeeded in reducing the number of asylum seekers by 71 per cent?
ParlaMint-DK_20170324142914	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324142915	I would like to start with the imperialism, because when you, as rapporteur, comment on something and even if it is not asked as a question, it is well allowed to comment on it. It may be very fun to say it with the imperial, but I think that there is a rather serious point below that which shows how double or what to call the Danish People's Party is, for the Danish People's Party, and also the Social Democratic Party, often talk about workers' rights; workers should not be exposed to unequal competition etc. etc. But the thing about being a rule maker and making sure to set a standard, not just here, but in the rest of the world, and of course we are not in charge, but it is something that is being done in a negotiation, is precisely about preventing unequal competition. After all, it is a question of others not competing with our companies because they treat their employees much worse or do not care about the climate, do not care about the environment, do not care about the working environment, safety homes etc. etc. I think that should actually be a position that the Danish People's Party should share, namely that we will not be exposed to unequal competition and that we should therefore be rule makers, so that we ensure that there is a fair level of competition. Do I have more time? Third Vice-President Yes, it was just because there is changing here in the chair. Sorry about the board). It's okay. On the issue of asylum figures: they are actually quite difficult to deal with, because it is surprising that the number of asylum seekers has not decreased more in 2016 compared to 2015, but I think part of the explanation is also that there were many who were not registered. They have been. So it seems that some of those who came in 2015 have only been registered in 2016. So there has been a real fall in 2016. But there has also been a huge fall in Sweden and in Germany. So it is not only in Denmark that we see a fall. I do not want to stand here and deny that the austerity has had an impact. They may well have had that, but I do not think that is the main reason. The main reason is probably that the flow of refugees has been stopped. But Denmark is not the only country. Many of the countries with which we usually compare, in other words Germany and Sweden, have also been reduced.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324143140	Now it is serious; the speaking time is over. Zenia Stampe, I believe that. Then it's mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324143143	I would just like to ask Mrs Zenia Stampe, in peace and quiet, whether Mrs Zenia Stampe will not admit that border controls actually have a value, because precisely the countries mentioned by Mrs Zenia Stampe are all countries which are protected not only by border controls but several border controls which have gradually been established through Europe and whether it is not the case that the solidarity solution that Mrs Zenia Stockpe is dreaming of has suffered total shipwreck.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324143216	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324143217	I hope that the rapporteur did not call me Zenia Stockings it sounded like that. In fact, I think I have a good answer to the question, because we held a conference on this subject a year ago. There we saw the map of the countries that had been granted border controls and what was thought-provoking and that is where I agree with Mr Tugendhat. Kenneth Kristensen Berth was that it was in the countries that had experienced one, one might say, unproportionally high asylum pressure. That is why it can also be said that the introduction of border controls was an attempt to create by other means the scale of solidarity which we want. It was actually an attempt to direct refugees to the countries they had not chosen to go to. But instead of border controls to ensure that distribution, I would rather that it is through an agreement that we make together that we ensure that distribution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324143310	Thank you. There are no more comments. Then it's mr. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324143334	It is true, as many have said, that in many ways the European Union is in a critical situation at the moment due to Brexit, due to greater popular scepticism, due to a number of trends in different countries that do not exactly contribute to cohesion. There are so many who ask: does this mean that the European Union will break up? Yes, there are some who want it to go down, they want parties like the Danish People's Party and the Enhedslisten, but I think I will say to all those who say that if you did not have the European Union, you would have to invent the European Union. The countries of Europe are so dependent on each other, there are so many cross-border problems that require cross-border international solutions that we need to have cooperation as the European Union, where there are institutions where there are rules and where there is also surrender of sovereignty to the community if it is to work. That is why so many people have different wide-ranging ideas about how to get an alternative to the European Union, and then you talk about the Council of Europe, or I don't know what, and the Nordic Council, etc. But the truth is, you have to have institutions. You have to have rules, you have to have a court that judges if someone does not comply with the rules, if this is to work at all. In addition, there is an historic community of destiny within the European Union. I know that when some people talk about peacemaking, others say: Well, what does that have to do with anything? I think that what we have seen in the Balkans and in the former Yugoslavia, which we have discussed before today, is a good example of how the European Union can have a peace-making effect. On the one hand, it is an example of how we were not able to intervene in the Srebenica disaster in 1995 and how it turned out that we were impotent when a solution to the conflict had to be found down there and, on the other hand, an example of how the EU perspective was subsequently a crucial prerequisite for getting, for example, a solution to the conflict. Serbia to behave sensibly in, among other things. Kosovo, but also get the other countries in the region to behave sensibly instead of returning to the old worlds. I certainly think so, sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen told about Kosovo was important. Here you would have been down and they would have said that if there was no longer that perspective, they could risk returning to those things again. It is clear that there are some challenges we must face. Let me mention at least three areas which I think it may be important to mention. The first is the social situation, the economic situation, that is, unemployment in the European Union. There is no doubt that there are many explanations for the fact that right-wing populists are currently winning, and one of the explanations that go back is about globalisation and about people getting stuck and so on. That is probably part of it, but I would also like to say that there are also some opportunities for us to do something about it. It is not the case that globalisation in this way, or at least its effects, is a law of nature. What politics is very much about is how we can deal with globalisation in a way that will benefit all people. I have to say something about the economic policy we have seen from Germany in particular. Some people say that it is the European Union's fault, but basically Chancellor Angela Merkel is responsible for a reactionary austerity policy that does not even take the picture of using the demand instrument if we are to get the economy back on track. It has the idea that only through labour market reforms and cuts can balance the economy so that the basis for progress can be restored. There has been a great debate on this in Europe, and the southern European countries in particular are dissatisfied with the austerity policy of Angela Merkel, which Denmark unfortunately also follows. I believe that this is an important debate in which we, too, on the part of Northern Europe, must bear in mind that, if this is to be the case, we need to take into account the need to create more jobs and that it is also a question of more demand, of more investment, of Greece, for example, having their debts cancelled, instead of making new demands on those that they cannot meet at all, and that other countries in southern Europe will have opportunities in the same way. They should not be allowed to drive free tickets, of course there must be a sense of responsibility in this, and there is no doubt that they have not always behaved equally responsibly in the past, but I think we need to discuss how we can relax the very tight economic policy. The second point I would like to mention is the problem of refugees, which many people are concerned with. It is also mentioned in the government's statement, and so is the economy, so these are excellent themes that are included there. However, I would like to mention the whole refugee policy, which is, of course, a challenge for our entire continent at the moment. There too, we must bear in mind that we have to have institutions, that we have to have formalized cooperation if we are to solve that problem at all. Voluntary agreements are not enough; we need to get them into the EU institutions. Work is under way on the revision of the Dublin Regulation, work is being done on external borders, etc. etc., and that is all important. However, I also think it should be mentioned that the whole problem of the distribution of refugees in our area cannot simply be left in our back pockets. Everyone knows that a compulsory allocation of quotas does not really have time on earth, but you can discuss other ways of getting this done more fairly. There are always economic incentives or financial penalties in politics that can be used against countries that do not accept their share of the burden. I would like a little more imagination, a little more creativity, also from the Danish Government, in relation to how we can get the discussion on how the refugees can be better distributed. It was said and I agree with those who say that there is a limit to how many refugees we can go to our continent, and that is why I think it is fair enough that in certain situations you can have some emergency brake that we discussed yesterday. But that limit has not yet been reached if we look at Europe as a whole. So it's not. After all, it is a great deal about the fact that it is not individual countries such as Sweden and Germany that have to bear the entire burden, but that other countries are also forced to bear their share of the burden. The third point I wish to make is the decision-making process. When EU decisions tend to be true, it is also related to the great enlargement. We were in favour of it for security policy reasons, but there is no doubt whatsoever that the decision-making process has become much, much more difficult. It is obvious that 28 countries will soon have 27 countries to agree, especially when, in many areas, unanimity still exists, which we still support. We do not have, as in the United States, a system in which the nation states have a Senate to which they each send two representatives, and then we vote there. There must be unanimity in many decisions, and in many cases it is impossible to obtain unanimity. That is why the debate on more flexible cooperation, a multi-space Europe, is relevant. I think it's a little interesting myself, because I've actually written about it. In fact, I have already written about it for the first time in a 1983 book, and I have written many pieces and articles about it and have been scorned every time I have mentioned what we have called a Europe in several spaces, during the various referendum campaigns, both 1992 and 2000. But my kronargument, also in the 1992 referendum, was that the European countries are so different that it is a bit of an illusion to believe that we can fit everything into the same box. That is, of course, what appears quite clearly and in a very unpleasant way at the moment. It is not desirable to have a Europe in several spaces, but I think it is necessary if we are to make the European Union work again. It's already running with more rooms at the moment. For example, you have... The euro in some places, and there is an opportunity to do so in the Treaty of Lisbon, but I think we need to have a little more offensive and constructive discussion on how we can put that idea into practice in order for the European Union to emerge from decision-making. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324144348	Thank you. Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party, for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324144352	Thank you. Of course, you could attach yourself to many things in Mr. Holger K. Nielsen's causeful speech. There is one thing that I think is particularly important, and that is the fact that Mr. Holger K. Nielsen talks about a perspective for the countries of the Western Balkans, Bosnia, Albania, Macedonia, and what it may be for countries such as Mr. Holger K. Nielsen has in mind. I just think it's a rather odd choice of words, i.e. a perspective, they should have a perspective. Mr. Holger K. Nielsen that the countries in question should be members of the EU 'yes' or 'no'? That's gotta be what it's all about. The fact that some countries are making such a fool of themselves by saying that they have a perspective of perhaps some time to become a member is, in fact, what has happened to Turkey. They have also had a perspective for several decades now. Then Mr. Holger K. Nielsen that those countries should be members of the EU or not?
ParlaMint-DK_20170324144457	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324144459	Well, I mean that when they meet the requirements they have to meet. I believe that we must negotiate with them. I don't know if sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth remembers the 1990s I don't know how old he was then but there was civil war in Yugoslavia. It was a nightmare for the whole of Europe, it was a nightmare and it was expensive for us too. That is where I think it is important to hopefully also for the Danish People's Party that we can avoid getting back into that situation. After all, it has become apparent that it is the European Union that is the key to the decisive key if we are to avoid the conflict breaking out again. That is why the EU perspective is so important.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324144547	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324144549	I just have to say that I don't share that observation with Mr. Simpson. Holger K. Nielsen. The fact is that we are dealing with an area of Europe that has been notoriously troubled always because it is an ethnic melting pot. In Bosnia we have serious problems. We have a Republika Srpska, which threatens to resign, and therefore I think that the very idea, that is, that there is at all some idea that they should at some point be a member of the European Union, seems so infinitely remote that it is almost impossible to see for itself. But I'd like to ask Mr. Holger K. Nielsen: What about Turkey? Should they also still have a prospect of becoming a member of the European Union, or has it changed? How does the Socialist People's Party view this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170324144631	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324144632	If we start with the Balkans, it is the case, for example, if you look at Croatia and Serbia, that they actually talk well now. Kosovo is no longer the very, very big theme of Serbian policy, as it was so much before. It is clear that then there are some other contradictions that are emerging, which are causing great concern, for example. Bosnia, I totally agree with that. But again I would say that the only thing that can make it dealt with is that the European Union becomes more offensive in relation to it. As far as Turkey is concerned, we have said in the past that what is currently happening in Turkey means that we should temporarily suspend the accession negotiations. But I hope that it will be put right again in Turkey so that they can be resumed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324144730	Thank you. There are no further comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. I do not think the Conservative rapporteur is here. Then it's the Secretary of State, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324144739	Thank you for a good and exciting debate. I think that we have come very well around the major issues on which we in the European Union will have to take a position in the future. Let me turn to some of the issues that have been touched upon. There is the future of the European Union. I also think it is worth saying a few words about the Commission's White Paper. I am glad that we have also opened that debate today. There is no doubt that there are different views on it, from the very pro-European points of view to a well, one must understand, the desire to get Denmark completely out of the EU. To that there may then be added that there are measurements that show that there are 13 per cent. by the Danes who share that view. It's not like it's overwhelming. But this is a debate that we must take with our eyes open. At the meeting in Rome tomorrow, at the 60th anniversary of the Treaty of Rome, it is natural to take stock of what we have achieved and where we are going, not least in a world where we are challenged and where security threats from Russia and terrorists are also on the agenda; where not everyone is following the international rules of play and where a new American administration raises many questions and where there are also crucial choices on the way in both Germany and France. And, above all, there is the economic crisis that has not yet completely escaped its grip in southern Europe. So much is at stake for the European Union too. I think it is positive that the Commission has recently delivered a White Paper setting out different scenarios for the European Union in 2025. They are at the forefront, as the Commission itself writes, but it gives us an opportunity to think and reflect on what we really want to cooperate with each other. That was some of it, too, as Mr. Holger K. Nielsen mentioned in his rapporteur's speech. We are at the start of a reflection process and the White Paper will be followed in the spring and summer by a series of reflection papers on EMU, on social Europe, on defence policy, on globalisation and on the EU's own resources. It will, I think, be an interesting and exciting debate, and will we not end up with a mix of elements from several of the scenarios of the White Paper? I think so. Brexit has also been touched on in the debate we have had today. After all, we are now awaiting the British activation of Article 50, the notification on Wednesday. It will give us a more complete picture of what Britain really wants. Our approach to the negotiations will of course be to safeguard the interests of Danish citizens and Danish companies. And there are many interests, for example. in the field of agriculture and fisheries. We should not be blind to that. There are payments to the EU budget, the internal market and Danish citizens in Britain. They must have proper rights. On the part of the government, we want a relatively rapid clarification of the principles of the most important parts of the divorce, such as: the financial gap between the EU and Great Britain and the rights of EU citizens in Great Britain. This will create, we believe, the best possible framework for negotiating a future agreement which, of course, must balance rights and obligations. The issue of migration has also been raised several times during the debate. The report describes the many progress made in the EU in the area of migration in 2016. Fortunately, today we are in a completely different place than we did a year ago. The conclusion of the EU-Turkey Agreement has contributed to the dramatic decline in the flow of irregular migrants to Greece, and the closure of the Western Balkans route has further reduced the flow in Europe. One of the biggest challenges right now is the central Mediterranean route. Here comes well 90%. Italy via Libya. That is why the EU is also providing assistance to Libya, in particular in terms of capacity building and strengthening Libyan border control. It is clear that there are no easy solutions when it comes to migration, but it is also clear that part of the sustainable solutions that can work and that work are also pan-European solutions. That is how many areas the European Union clearly sees as an important player, an international forum that is important to Denmark. We have to protect that. EU cooperation has created and will continue to produce great and concrete results that we benefit from every day, but we may have become so used to them that we sometimes take them for granted. I think that was reflected in the public hearing, in which we also took part, in one way or another, and which the Folketing had arranged here recently. The more knowledge the participants received about such concrete aspects of EU cooperation, the more positive they actually became, the measurements that were made along the way showed. So perhaps information here is also part of the way forward. The single market is one of the EU's greatest successes. The fact that we are acting together has meant that, according to some estimates, our GDP is just over 100 billion. kr. higher and real wages almost 10%. higher than if we hadn't been there. In fact, according to the survey, which I refer to here, an ordinary LO couple in owner's residence each year has an additional income of DKK 65,000. It's not change. The internal market has reduced barriers to trade and investment and labour mobility, resulting in greater market demand, productivity gains and increased labour supply. It has made the Danish economy stronger, because Denmark is characterised by the fact that we have always, and we have a long history for this, been an economy that depends on us trading with others, that we act globally, and that we are some that look beyond the country's borders. This development must continue and the EU must be strengthened in those areas that have created the greatest impact on Denmark's ability to cope with global competition. The government will continue to work for a strong focus on creating growth and employment through also a better functioning internal market. I am thinking in particular of a well-functioning internal market in large areas such as energy and also the digital internal market. The European Union is also one of the important tools we have in ensuring compliance with international rules of the game. We must use our energies to find the right solutions together, including when it comes to dealing with protectionist actions by some of our main trading partners. Here the answer is not that we just shut ourselves down. We have a bigger filling when we stand shoulder to shoulder with others. For export and free trade it seems to me worth emphasising • helps create jobs and growth, and that is what finances the welfare society for which there is broad support in Denmark. In fact, last October, the most ambitious trade agreement ever concluded by the European Union was signed and is on its way through the Parliamentary Chamber at the moment. It is the EU-Canada agreement that is expected to increase Danish exports by over 2 billion. kr. This will also contribute to the creation of jobs on an annual basis. So, in our daily lives, we benefit from the positive elements of EU cooperation in many areas, but also the way down in everyday life as in the area of telecommunications, where it is now much cheaper to call and send text messages and surf online in another EU country. It is also part of the concrete results that citizens benefit from. That is not to say that the European Union is perfect as it is. We need to have a critical and open discussion about EU cooperation, just as we at home have a discussion about the welfare state, without thereby being opposed to the welfare society. It is important that we also keep that debate going and that we do not end up in a discussion where you are either just one hundred percent for everything, or you are one hundred percent against it all. This should not be the case, and it is not really the case. There is a need for the European Union to be reformed from the inside so that it becomes slimmer and more efficient and that work is focused on what we, as a government, believe to be the core tasks of the European Union: to deliver peace, freedom and free trade to Europeans. As Britain leaves the EU, Denmark will lose a close partner and the balance of power in the EU will change. That is why I am also travelling around in the future to build alliances with other EU countries. This applies both to the countries with which we may not talk quite so often, and to the countries with which we often cooperate, but perhaps can cooperate even more closely in several areas. On one of the issues that needs to be addressed, and which is also one of the issues that was touched upon during today's debate, namely welfare benefits and the future indexation of welfare benefits, we already have alliance partners among some of the European countries, including the United States. Germany and Austria and Ireland, but we would very much like to expand on this, so that we end up having that part in place, which also fell away with the British 'no' vote, that is, the Brexit of the British. So, of course, we need to get this in place so that it again becomes part of the decisions that will be taken in the future at European level. It is clear that it is crucial for us in Denmark that we are seen as interesting and constructive and flexible in the dialogue that we have with the others in order to be an attractive alliance partner. We will only be if we are good at seeing EU cooperation in a whole, that is to say both the pluses and the minuses, but do not forget the overall view of EU cooperation. We must be prepared to give ourselves a little on some of the matters that are less important to Denmark, but are important to our partners if we are to have their support when it is Danish interests that are at stake, otherwise EU cooperation will not have the flexibility it needs to deliver and function. Peace, freedom and free trade do not come on their own. This is something that needs to be worked hard for. This requires the European Union to stick together and, in practice, to be a decision-making body, and we must do our part to ensure that it will be in the future too. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324145816	Thank you. And then there are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324145826	Thank you for that and thank you to the Secretary of State. See, we have to return to an article from 4 April 2014 in Berlingske, where Mr. Anders Samuelsen, the current Foreign Minister, spoke. That's what Mr. Anders Samuelsen, the Foreign Minister, like this: If you look at how the Danish People's Party votes in the Danish Parliament, they are a real yes party. We are the real sceptics. If it comes to concrete policy, we will vote far more sceptically than they do. It puts a certain pressure of ambition on the Foreign Minister, you might say, because as a member of the Danish People's Party you can have quite high hopes of what this much more EU-sceptic party will be able to do in the government. So I would just like to ask the Foreign Minister how this supposedly more EU-sceptic line than the Danish People's Party has been reflected in the government's policy up to now in the EU area.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324145929	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324145930	Well, I actually mentioned this in my reply, that is to say that some of it unfortunately, because it went down in England, as the Danish People's Party hoped it would, namely that it became a 'no' which we agree on broadly in the Danish Parliament, namely that we have to look at an indexation of welfare benefits, is something that I have and the Liberal Alliance has a concrete opportunity to influence now through the conversations that I have already conducted with European colleagues and that I am increasingly going to have, and I will also be focused on that in the conversations that I have to have when I am going on the alliance trips. 'Cause it's... 'cause it's...
ParlaMint-DK_20170324150023	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324150025	What concrete things the European Union is doing today must not be done in the future? And does the Foreign Minister still believe that the Liberal Alliance is a more EU-sceptic party than the Danish People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20170324150043	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324150044	I think I will leave the final part to the citizens to decide. I believe that this was an absolutely crucial moment in the referendum on Europol and the additional things that were tried to put in there that the Liberal Alliance chose the side where we recommended a 'no' vote. It is, of course, such an example that we have a concrete influence on it and have said: here and no longer. I know how I would have organised that referendum if I had been in government at that time. I didn't. Now the Liberal Alliance sits in the government and helps to influence the actions that come from the government. However, we are also starting from what is happening, which may come from the criticism that the Liberal Alliance has been involved in raising, and which the Danish People's Party has also helped to raise, namely that the European Union must become more focused rather than spread across all sorts of areas. This is among other things. That is why we have seen a much smaller number of initiatives by the Commission than has been seen in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324150143	Then it's mr. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324150144	Thank you. When we had the public hearing here at Christiansborg, there was a very, very large proportion of the participants who were representative of the Danish population, who very clearly stated that social dumping had to be tackled. I think it was more than 80% who actually said that too little was done and that it simply should not be acceptable for people to work in Denmark without working on Danish agreements. So when you have the situation that there is such a massive majority in the Danish population who think there is a problem with social dumping, I am a little surprised that, as I read the statement by the Foreign Minister and listen to the Foreign Minister's speech, then social dumping is not mentioned at all. Is it because the government does not believe that further action should be taken against social dumping?
ParlaMint-DK_20170324150249	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324150250	Well, the answer is that the government recognises that there is a broad majority in the Folketing that wants to combat social dumping in the Danish labour market. And the government will work to ensure that the Danish labour market is characterised both by dynamics and by proper conditions. It is important that control efforts, for example. in relation to illegal cabotage, it is effective to create fair competition in the road transport sector, and the government is already actively involved in this. After all, in the 2016 Finance Act, the three government parties helped to ensure that the 2016-2019 Police Agreement provided separate funds for the fight against social dumping, including illegal cabotage. Also in the 2017 Finance Act, the three parties that are now in government were involved in the agreement reached to examine the possibility of establishing an experimental scheme using, for example: automatic license plate recognition as an element in the control of the very specific area, which we call cabotage. So that's the agenda this government is working on.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324150357	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324150358	In other words, the situation is just that, despite these initiatives mentioned by the Foreign Minister, there is still a gigantic problem of social dumping around the Danish jobs, and that, like this massive majority of more than 80%. of the participants in the public hearing expressed that much more had to be done. I could not really listen to the Foreign Minister what the government intended to do now, when we cannot read anything about it in the statement and have not heard it in the speech by the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324150438	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324150439	But that is because I have referred to the fact that we have already taken initiatives in this area, and I have a great expectation that those initiatives will also work, among other things. the initiatives that we took in the context of the 2016 Finance Act. I believe that people working on the Danish labour market must work on proper conditions. That is why we have the Danish model, which must help to secure it. We have the social partners, workers and employers who are so closely involved in this area, and then the Folketing sometimes complements with measures to help ensure that it is done on proper conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324150515	Sir. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324150517	Thank you. In his concluding remarks here, the Minister for Foreign Affairs mentioned that ordinary employees should have received DKK 65,000, it was probably more in their pockets because of the internal market. I have always thought that these sorts of statements are so ridiculous, because it is quite counterproductive to assess what that will mean. No one would have known who we would have traded with if the internal market did not exist. And I really just want confirmation that even before the internal market there was some kind of life here in Denmark. Trades were also made with other countries in a natural way. Is it not true that we actually traded with other countries and that we had reasonable prosperity both before the internal market, but indeed before 1973 when we came along?
ParlaMint-DK_20170324150605	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324150606	I can confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324150611	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324150614	There's almost nothing else to do either. May I also say that if you mention these figures, that is to say, completely out of thin air, I have no respect for such statements, I have to say; I think that is ridiculous • why not mention what it has done Denmark to be outside the euro? I think that can be assessed more accurately. There have been some figures for that. Does the Secretary of State have any idea?
ParlaMint-DK_20170324150632	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324150633	But if you think that one part is counter-productive history writing, then you must also think that the other part is counter-productive history writing. No, I guess you don't think so, but I guess that's the way it must be. Of course, that kind of figure will always be, and I give it to you. Søren Espersen is right, be surrounded by doubt... that's how it must be. But a report has been made, and you can then look at it and take it as a starting point. I said it was an example of what some people are fighting it for. Then I'm sure there'll be somebody else who's gonna break it up in a different way. I am sure that the fact that we have an internal market helps to benefit a Danish economy which is so dependent on us trading with others.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324150711	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324150721	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 28 March 2017. That is the rapporteur for the questioners, sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, for a reason. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324150745	Thank you. See, now we have had a debate about, it can be said, the day-to-day operation of the European Union, and it has also been an exciting debate, it has to be said. Now we are going to have a debate on the prospects for future EU cooperation, and this is certainly not a less exciting debate. We have called for the question debate on the government's ambitions for cooperation in the European Union, because we have, of course, been aware that it is clear from the government's basis that the government will work for leaner EU cooperation. And, of course, it is interesting to find out more concretely what is going to be in that ambition. I must say that it has certainly not been easier for me to find out after reading the Prime Minister's opinion article in today's edition of Berlingske. It has to be said that at best it is generals who are included in that article, so I have not become wiser. I hope then that I will be wiser when the Minister for Foreign Affairs has the opportunity to respond to the question here in a moment. We have heard many times in the Committee on European Affairs that the Prime Minister has advocated that the time is not right for institutional reforms or new treaties, and that is strange, because one would think that if one wants to slim down, it would require that one refrain from doing something that is already being done today. And since the European Union has the basis in the Treaty of Lisbon for doing what you do, you had to assume that the Treaty of Lisbon would have to be amended if you wanted to work for slimmer EU cooperation. Now the President of the Commission, Jean-Claude Juncker, has even, since we submitted the request for the question debate, carried out his White Paper on the future of the European Union, which lists five scenarios for the development of the European Union, and it would also be interesting to have a sense of where not only the government but also the other parties of the Folketing see EU cooperation moving. We in the Danish People's Party are looking forward to learning more about what the government really means by slimmer cooperation, what tasks the European Union should not take care of in the future, which the European Union is taking care of today, and how it intends to prevent the European Union from doing so without changing the legal basis on which the European Union operates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324151003	Thank you. Then it is the Foreign Minister for an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324151013	Thank you. First of all, let me make it clear that I am very pleased to be able to explain once again the government's views on European policy. I think it is a good thing that the government's basis is read as thoroughly as it does, by many people, because it is a good government basis and, of course, it also raises many questions which will allow us to deepen. This will create a debate here in the Danish Parliament, which will hopefully help to get out of the world any confusion there may be, so that together we can focus on delivering results for the benefit of citizens and businesses. It is true that the government's basis focuses on how to ensure a strong, a slender and effective European Union. It is therefore too narrow to ask only how we will deliver a slim EU. The three elements, we think, belong together, because together they must ensure that the European Union delivers the results that are needed. The government's starting point is that the EU is fundamentally positive for Denmark. Denmark's prosperity, security and future are guaranteed by EU cooperation. We do not want Denmark to leave the EU, and fortunately very few Danes do, according to the measurements we know about. We cannot create growth for our businesses and security for our citizens or ensure Denmark's future best, by closing ourselves, looking inwards, shutting everything else out, or by stepping out of internationally binding cooperation, such as the United States. The European Union is an expression of this. In short, the European Union is one of our guarantors of peace, freedom and free trade. We must stick to that and then we must do it even better than we do today. Europe today faces a number of challenges. There is war in the vicinity of Europe and control of the external borders is challenged. The European economy is not yet up and running, and we need to create more growth and employment, and then we need to increase security within Europe, where unfortunately we have seen more terrorist attacks, most recently the other day. That is why we also need a strong European Union. In a globalised age, we cannot shut ourselves down and try to find all the solutions alone. We need to work together on the challenges we face. We must be aware of where the European Union has added value and the European Union creates added value in a number of areas. The single market is a major and important achievement which has contributed to growth and employment over the past many years. I do not think that many companies will be found that do not prefer a common European regulatory framework and standards to 28 different ones, and I do not think that many countries around the world will be found that do not prefer to make one free trade agreement with the European Union rather than one with each of the Member States. However, there are also areas where the EU does not provide added value. That is why we must ensure that the European Union is slim. The European Union must focus on those areas where solutions will be best if they are found together, while there is no reason for the European Union to interfere where we can find the solutions that we see there is a need for as well or better ourselves. That is the question that we must all ask ourselves every time we are presented with a new proposal: does it add value to dealing with it at European level, or is it something that the countries can do themselves just as well? There is a great deal that binds us together in Europe, we see many things equally, but it is also important that we do not forget to respect the differences that are still and must be. We must be allowed to organize our societies differently. We must be allowed to have different rules and laws where that makes sense. At a time when we need to act on the challenges we face, it is also important that the European Union is effective. Therefore, or unfortunately, we have seen before that it may take a long time for the necessary common solutions to be found and it may take even longer for them to be implemented in all Member States. We're gonna have to end this. We need and we need to be able to act and deliver concrete results. The devil is in the detail, because it is easy to say that the European Union must be strong, slim and effective, but how are we going to do so? Let me start by emphasising that in our efforts to improve the European Union we must not focus on concrete results. As I said, we must have an effective European Union so that we can deal with some of the challenges we are facing today in Europe in the short term. That is why there are a number of things on which the European Union should not spend time and energy. We have to, for example. do not have Treaty changes. There are probably many who can point to a single element or two in the Treaties that they would like to change, i.e. just add a little here, remove a paragraph there, move a comma, remove a competence or add a new one. But that's not the way the government wants. Treaty amendments take a long time, and even if we had to achieve a result, it would require approval in all the Member States, including in those countries where a referendum would have to be held. But most importantly, it will take a lot of effort away from what really matters, namely the solutions we need to find the challenges we are facing right now. We all need to focus our energies on the proposals that are really important. Here I would like to mention two good measures which I consider to be a step in the right direction and which help us to work more effectively. Firstly, the Commission, which, as you know, has the right of initiative, has chosen a more focused approach. The Commission has a stated objective of being big on the big things and small on the small things. Among other things, it has. This meant that the Commission's work programme for 2017 contains only 21 initiatives compared to the approx. 130 initiatives, which the last Commission made on average annually, and this is a significant reduction. If you have any doubts as to whether it is important, ask colleagues in the European Parliament. You can feel the sharp decline in the number of legislative initiatives. Secondly, in 2016, a new initiative was implemented in connection with the preparation of the work programme for 2017. In concrete terms, the three institutions have agreed on a joint declaration on how to give priority to the work in 2017. In this way we can work towards the same things; we know what lies at the top of the pile. This action is one of the elements of the Interinstitutional Agreement on Better Law-Making of April 2016. Another is more focus on a better regulatory agenda, including the use of impact assessments, so that we ensure that the consequences of the legislation that we agree on in the European Union are as elucidated as possible. It is also positive and will help to make cooperation more effective. But more can of course be done. We must continue to work to make the European Union more efficient, including in the future. We should ensure that when plans and strategies are adopted, there is a focus on what needs to be done in concrete terms and that there is a focus on what proposals should be made or what rules should be changed in order to achieve a specific objective. The focus must be on the concrete and not on the big airy ideas. Efficiency gives strength, but it is not the only thing that can help to secure a strong European Union. It is also about doing better where we are already doing well. The single market is one of the great achievements we have achieved together, but there is room for improvement. This is particularly true in the digital field, but also in the energy sector. According to the Commission, a fully functioning digital internal market can increase the EU economy by more than 3 000 billion. Danish kroner annually. This is an area in which we must be strong together. We must also be strong in terms of free trade. The EU already has free trade agreements which are of great benefit to Denmark. This is true, for example. the free trade agreement with South Korea. Our exports increased from 3.9 billion. EUR 6,4 billion after the entry into force of the Free Trade Agreement in 2011. Recently, a free trade agreement has also been concluded, as we have also discussed and debated in the Folketing, with Canada, and more are on the way. This is an agenda that we must continue to pursue. A strong and effective European Union will, of course, be good, but it must also be slim. Just as we in the Folketing do not have to legislate when it can be better handled by the municipalities, nor should we have more EU in those areas where the countries can deliver better. We should not spend time and effort establishing a social union. Of course, we in Denmark attach importance to social balance. That is what our welfare society is based on. We want a social Europe with growth and employment, but we do not want the European Union to develop into a social union. We do not want the European Union to take over responsibility from the Member States. On the contrary, there must be respect for the ways in which each country organises its systems and therefore also for the Scandinavian labour market model. Nor should we embark on major institutional changes in terms of EMU cooperation or develop the EU's military capabilities in a way that does not interact with NATO. It is relevant to ask whether, for example, there is any need to do so. the EU needs to further regulate the length of maternity leave for men and women across the EU, or whether there is a need for more EU regulation of employment and social policy, or whether this is not done best nationally. Should the EU decide how companies should put together the boards of directors? To what extent should the EU retail regulate as regards package delivery across the EU, e.g. in connection with e-commerce? There are a number of questions to be asked and should be asked. These are areas such as these where we should be good at saying that we do not think that any further action should be taken, and it is also in areas such as these that the Folketing has a role to play in the enforcement of the principle of subsidiarity, a role which I hope Parliament will continue to give priority to, and in cooperation with other national parliaments, the Folketing can contribute to the Commission's always being able to explain their actions and the barn. Summing up, I think we should keep the overview and focus. The European Union is an important and crucial guarantor of peace, freedom and prosperity and is the right tool to address a number of the challenges we face. This is something that the Danes, whom I have also mentioned several times in the speech, agree with. Very few want Denmark to withdraw from the EU. However, as with all other tools, the tool should be used in the right way. A slim, strong and effective European Union must be used to solve the specific problems that are best solved together. It should not be used to solve the problems that the Member States themselves can solve as well or better. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324152116	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, who is the rapporteur for the proposers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324152132	Thank you. Yes, well, I actually think, when I hear the Foreign Minister's speech, if there is no error in the government base, because instead of slimmers, should it not just have been said that we should not put on any more? As far as I am concerned, it seems to me that the government is up to something about us not having to put on any more weight in some areas, and it is of course also very good that if you go to McDonald's five times a week, then you say: well, I can keep doing that. But perhaps you should turn it down, and that is really what I think should be the ambition of the government. However, it does not seem to be the ambition of the government, and especially when it comes to the fact that we are dealing with an even highly EU-sceptic party, which is supposed to be more EU-sceptic than the Danish People's Party, and another party, which is not even an extra sceptical party, but at least an EU-semi-sceptic party that has entered the government, I must say that I perhaps think that what the minister provided here was a bit at the end of the pauvre. One could, for example: start by asking the government what the government's position on the reservations really is. In other words, the legal reservation was tried to be abolished in 2015, and the Prime Minister has probably already, at least in small terms, put forward a new vote here in the coming years. The Minister for Defence has had a very difficult time judging by the press that he has a new role to play in the EU context, where he does not have as much influence as he did when he was Minister of Finance. He may also feel the need for the defence reserve to be abolished here, so when the Minister for Defence was Minister for Finance, he also announced a future dispute with the reservation on the euro. So I have to say that I do not think it is entirely in the direction of slimmer cooperation with what the Minister is saying here. I find it difficult to make it fit into the rhetoric that has otherwise been displayed by the Liberal Alliance and Conservatives. For example: Mr. Rasmus Jarlov for information that we are therefore Conservatives are more sceptical towards the EU than we have ever been. You will certainly see that on a wide range of issues we will be less in favour of the European Union. And the Liberal Alliance indicated that we would see a completely new EU policy when it was the case that the Liberal Alliance entered the government. And there I have to say that I think we still have some good to see, also in the light of what the Foreign Minister has said here. In other words, there is no doubt that the British withdrawal from the EU should have made it reasonably clear to the Commission and EU-enthusiastic Member States and the Danish Government that there is relative scepticism about the project, and this is also emphasised in the recent EU-barometer study. The fact is that if you are to have a slimmer EU, you have to change the system from within, and then you have to talk about Treaty changes, even if it is difficult. I could understand from the Foreign Minister that he highlighted the idea of a social union as something that was quite distracting and something that the government was opposed to. This is a point of view which we certainly share from the Danish People's Party and we very much hope that it will be made very clear by the Danish Government. There could be, for example: I would also like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his reply. We'll see how it goes. However, I have to say that there is, after all, a small opportunity to raise the flag, because Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker has taken out the bold plan he has drawn up, from the drawer, on five perspectives for a future Europe, of which at least one, perhaps even two, contains less of the European Union. In fact, it is both a refreshing and surprising step that Jean-Claude Juncker has taken there, although, when you go into the more formalistic details, you have to realise that you can see what it is that the President of the Commission would like to see taken. There is not much that can be done if it is the case that at least a few of these scenarios are chosen, and that is really also very significant for the way we sometimes act in the European Union. Summa summarum I must say that I am a little sad that no more cake was put on the table by the Minister, because I thought it was a little pauvert. I think we could have wanted a diet and not just that the fat cure should stop. There wasn't much diet over this, at least not seen by the Danish People's Party. However, on this basis and on behalf of the Danish People's Party, I should like to make the following points: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the government's government's basis has meant to work for a leaner EU. On 1 March 2017, President Jean-Claude Juncker presented a White Paper containing five scenarios for the future of Europe with a view to reaching a conclusion on this in the context of the EU summit in December. Against this background, the Folketing calls on the government to work to ensure that the EU gradually shifts its focus back towards the internal market. V 58).
ParlaMint-DK_20170324152703	Thank you. Then the next rapporteur is Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324152724	Thank you very much for the floor, President. We have just had a long debate on how we view the development of EU cooperation. I think I will start where I did not really have time to answer the question put to him, because it turned into a long debate on war and peace and everything else. This is not an insignificant debate, but nevertheless I did not manage to answer where I and the Social Democrats might see areas where cooperation would be slimmed down. To begin with, I have always thought that this whole debate about slimming something down and that we need to be bigger on the big and less on the less quickly becomes enormously superficial and with very, very little relevance. Of course, the Minister for Foreign Affairs must also be allowed to reply to that later. Having said that, I would like to say that many of the areas I previously listed in my rapporteur's speech for all those who were present in the Chamber are areas where I basically see that the European Union has to deal with some problems that we share on the European continent. This applies to the challenge of adapting the internal market to avoid social dumping. The rapporteur was right when he said earlier that it would require more common regulation and adaptation. If we are to be united in creating a proper policy so that we avoid large companies and wealthy individuals placing their profits in tax havens, it will also require more cooperation and more regulation. If we are to expand the corporate tax base and create a common base under corporate tax, so that we slow down the harmful race against the bottom in terms of Member States' corporate taxes and corporate taxes, it also requires more common regulation. It also requires more common regulation when it comes to limiting all the potential harm that banks and investment firms can do, just as they did up to 2008. Where, then, are we not going to cooperate anymore? This is particularly true when it comes to designing our respective welfare models. It is very, very important for social democracy that there is respect between countries and in the system, especially in the Commission and among its officials, so that we do not need common regulation there. Wherever there may be, it may be smaller. Similarly, we do not need any more common regulation when it comes to laying down rules on how to establish pay and working conditions. We would also like to take a look at this as an obvious opportunity here in the context of the brexit debate: how to reorganise the EU budget in a new way, so as to perhaps scale down agricultural aid and structural funds in return for using some of it, perhaps less overall, to invest in some of the long-term measures needed to reduce the flow of refugees and migrants towards Europe for all kinds of obvious reasons. So I do not know whether the rapporteur could use the answers in the question he has called for, otherwise I will be happy to elaborate. Then I shall read out here, at the very end, a proposal for adoption, which we are a number of parties that have come together. It is made by the Social Democracy, the Left, the Liberal Alliance, the Conservatives, the Alternative, the SF and the Radicals. It sounds like this: Proposals for adoption The Parliament notes that in these years Europe is facing a number of challenges of a cross-border nature requiring joint action: migration, control of external borders, counter-terrorism, growth and employment, orderly and good conditions in the labour market, climate and environment, as well as the management of conflicts in the EU's neighbourhood. The many challenges have given rise to a debate throughout Europe on European cooperation. The Folketing considers that Europe's challenges cannot be solved without strong and binding international cooperation, which is best achieved through the EU. Parliament notes that the EU has already contributed to finding solutions to the challenges and delivered many positive results, but that more needs to be done. The Danish Parliament therefore considers that there is a need for a Europe with a focus on delivering concrete results on cross-border challenges for the benefit of citizens and businesses. Parliament notes that the government will actively promote this agenda at European level. • V 59).
ParlaMint-DK_20170324153151	Thank you. And, like the previous proposal for adoption, this is also part of the further debate. Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party, for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324153201	Thank you. In this area too, Mr President, the rapporteur's group chairman, Mr President of the Commission, is in favour. Henrik Sass Larsen, yes, you might say, mingle. I've got the impression, too, of what Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen says here that Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen actually agrees with the ambition of the government that we are not going to discuss institutions; we are not going to discuss them. It's the wrong thing to do. But that's what Mr. Henrik Sass Larsen saw Berlingske: Parliament and the Commission are elected for five years at a time, and then there is a Council of Ministers with 28 different countries where ministers are replaced all the time. I can't do that. It simply has to stop. You have to look at the balance of the whole European project in order to make it go as the people will do... We have to look at the institutions of the European Union one more time. Will the Social Democratic Party look at the institutions and thus open up Treaty changes in order to have slimmer EU cooperation?
ParlaMint-DK_20170324153310	Here you go, sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324153313	In other words, because it was not part of my initial rapporteur's speech, it does not mean that I do not want to discuss it. Both I and the Social Democrats would like to do so, and I also believe that the time we are in right now is a relevant time to discuss it. I do not have a final proposal for the rapporteur, in which he can read exactly how we want to organise the institutions differently. But if I am going to share a few thoughts with the rapporteur, I would say that I am going to say, for example: In the first place, it is a very, very important realization that it is, for example, a very important one. It is a problem that EU cooperation has functioned on the basis that it should be increasingly narrower, and there has been a court that has interpreted all decisions in this direction. Secondly, I also think it is a problem that the Commission has as much right of initiative and power in this respect as it has at present. I do not have a complete answer to the rapporteur, but I am perhaps in some other words a continuation of Mr Beazley's report. Henrik Sass Larsen's criticism. And I also believe that this is an important recognition for everyone, which has now also been established, among other things. also by Wolfgang Schäuble today in the Financial Times, who says that we may also just have to recognise that we are moving at different speeds within the community.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324153427	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324153428	Yes, yes, Schäuble is absolutely right, because that is de facto what it is. So there are some countries that have come together on financial transactions, and there I understand that the Social Democrats are really on the wrong track. But I still think that there is an interesting perspective here, for Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen will not rule out the need for Treaty changes to make the EU move in the right direction. We believe that in the Danish People's Party too. Perhaps I could have an idea that there were other parties in the Parliamentary Assembly who did too, and that may in fact be close to a majority. So I think we should sit together quietly in the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party and find out if we can impose on the government a different approach to EU cooperation, which involves an ambition for treaty changes that fundamentally roll back power to the nation states. What does the rapporteur say about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170324153523	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324153524	This rapporteur says that we are actually willing to discuss most things. One of the proposals that I myself made earlier today, and which Enhedslisten also welcomed, was the prospect of a social protocol. It would not necessarily require direct amendments to the Treaties, but it would require clarification of the Treaties by means of a protocol. Whether or not we can agree on what these changes will involve, time will have to show. But to discuss it at this time, having that discussion, we are very willing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324153555	Thank you. Then there are no further comments to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324153610	Thank you. The left is an EU positive party. We have always been, we still are, and I have no imagination to imagine that it would ever change. We welcome the fact that more and more parties are supporting the European project and, if we did not have the European Union, we simply had to hurry to invent it. All Member States win on European cooperation • some, e.g. Denmark, more than others, but everyone wins. Let me mention an entirely cash advantage: the internal market, which has been absolutely crucial to the success of Danish companies and which, overall, has given Denmark an economic gain of 100 billion. kr. a year. Our GDP is as much as 5%. greater than it would otherwise have been, and this corresponds for a LO couple in owner's residence to a direct financial gain of DKK 65,000. a year. The European Union has ensured peace, freedom and free trade, and this weekend we are sweeping the 60th anniversary of the Treaty of Rome. Unfortunately, everything is not perfect and the European Union is in crisis. The crisis has manifested itself in the lamentable Brexit. Our friends in Britain will no longer be involved, and the fear of a domino effect in which one country after another copies the British, after which the EU falls apart, is real. Fortunately, for the time being, it seems that this is instead a reverse domino effect. Domino tiles are stronger than ever before and support for the EU is growing dramatically in almost all Member States, not least in Denmark. However, it would be a big mistake to sit back with your arms crossed and find that the crisis has passed. It is against this background that the new wordings on EU cooperation should be read in the government basis. We do not want the European Union any more, we do not want the European Union any less. It is simply too primitive to turn the issue of the future of the European Union into a question of more or less the European Union, more or less Denmark. We want a better European Union, a strong, slim and effective European Union, and excuse me, isn't it quite objectively better to be strong, slim and effective than being lax, slim and sluggish? So the Left wants an EU that is, as we say in foreign, big on big things, small on small things. We must respect the principle of subsidiarity, and we must concentrate on the challenges that the Member States can best solve together, those areas where European cooperation creates added value. When we have discussed in the past the Government's ambitions for a stronger, leaner and more effective European Union, a number of my colleagues here in the Parliamentary Chamber have said that it must then require a change in the Treaty and institutional framework that is the starting point for cooperation today. In other words, they do not believe that it is possible to reform the system without a treaty amendment. In the view of the Left, this is a misunderstanding. Let me ask the same rhetorical question that I asked earlier at an EU committee meeting, where we also had a similar discussion about the future of the European Union, namely: could it be imagined that we were strengthening municipal autonomy without at the same time amending the municipal governing law? Can you imagine a slimmer and more efficient Danish welfare society without changing the Danish constitution at the same time? Yes, of course you can. Similarly, the government and other like-minded governments in Europe can also achieve the ambition of a stronger, leaner and more effective EU without changing the fundamentals of the Treaty or institutional framework. For me, it is about will, alliance building and, above all, dialogue between both the European countries and the institutions. It is my opinion that there is a general understanding in the European Union that we need to look at how we should work together in the future. And Danish spectacles have already seen a sensible development in progress. For example, the Commission's work programme for 2017 contains 21 initiatives compared to the 130 initiatives put forward by the Commission on average over the period 2009-2014. We must ensure pan-European solutions to the refugee crisis, international terrorism, environmental and climate challenges, and we must ensure continued growth and prosperity. The problems would also exist without the European Union, they would just be bigger, but that is of course no excuse for not working to reduce the problems. I do not know whether any such person seriously believes that Denmark could have knitted a CETA agreement together, that is, the free trade agreement with Canada, which it is estimated will increase exports by around 2.2 billion. If anyone believes that Denmark alone could have concluded the Turkey Agreement, if anyone believes that a Europe with common standards for goods is no more attractive than a Europe with 28 different standards. I don't, the Left doesn't, the government doesn't. We have to remember that. We need to remember the big picture and not lose ourselves in liquorice pipes, cinnamon snails and curly cucumbers, which we can, after all, remarked in parentheses, continue to be legally available in the local supermarket. So that the benefits of the European Union are far greater than the disadvantages, there is no doubt for me.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324154148	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324154150	Thank you. In many ways, of course, I perceive Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen as Mr. Uffe Ellemann-Jensen's heir at Christiansborg. Probably something like that, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen will be thrilled. I am not quite sure that I share the enthusiasm, because you can always be sure that if you are to have any EU enthusiasm from the Left, you just have to ask Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen. Now I'm gonna ask Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen on something that our tax minister has said and which I think is actually very precise. There was a longer interview with him in Everything. He said: 'There has been an ideological battle in Europe that we have not won. We wanted a slimmer but stronger EU, but we have not got a slimmer EU. We have got a bolder European Union in the unfathomable way. This is reflected in the fact that the European Union is too much involved, which should instead be resolved at national level. I fully agree with the tax minister and then the question arises: what concrete things are being resolved today in the European Union that will have to be resolved at national level in the future, as the tax minister said?
ParlaMint-DK_20170324154259	Here you go to the rapporteur, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324154300	First of all, I am pleased with the comparison. It was Uffe Ellemann-Jensen who made me join the Left at the time, and I actually voted for him as chairman when he was in battle with Ivar Hansen. So it's a comparison I'm glad of. I think we could use more politicians like Uffe Ellemann-Jensen. So it is a praise that I very humbly accept and applaud. The tax minister also says many wise things; he certainly does. I understand, sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth has been looking for quotes, and the tax minister is touching some key issues. I do not believe that this is the way to take out whole areas, but we must have a high degree of self-discipline when deciding to regulate in some areas, such as the legal area on which we had a vote in December. For example, when talking about marriage legislation, should the European Union go in and regulate national marriage laws? No, the European Union must stay far away from that. However, if there is a marriage between two parties from different EU countries, it may be very sensible to have common rules governing which country's court is to deal with the divorce, depending on where the parties live, etc. So a distinct degree of self-discipline, where one does not necessarily refrain from regulating in the individual areas, but where one goes in very precisely and only regulates where it makes sense and where it creates added value.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324154439	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324154440	It was a variation again that if I go to McDonald's 5 days a week, all I have to do is continue with it. It's not slimmer; it's just that I'm doing the same thing as before, and hopefully I won't wear any more as a result of it. What the Minister of Taxation is talking about is, in fact, that there are some things that the Minister of Taxation believes are being resolved at EU level which will need to be resolved at national level in the future. And what I am fishing for is: what are the things that the European Union is dealing with today, which the Left would like to see the nation states take care of in the future? It doesn't have to be 10 or 20 things, because we also have limited time, but just a few examples.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324154518	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324154519	If sir... Kenneth Kristensen Berth is fishing for whole areas that the EU should not take care of, I must disappoint. We have no plans in future for the European Union not to concern itself with fisheries policy at all or even not to concern itself with agricultural policy or not to deal with the legal area at all. However, in the areas with which the European Union is to be chosen, the European Union must only deal with what makes sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324154548	Sir. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324154551	Thank you. I would like to hear something from the rapporteur. I understand that things are going well in all areas and EU enthusiasm is rising around Europe. It's not something I've noticed myself, but it's great to know. I would just like to ask: what if the rapporteur were to try to get on the other side and think about the reasons why Britain voted out and the Dutch critical party rushed forward? And what are the reasons why there is unrest around the European Union in Greece and in France, which may have a new President who wants a referendum on the European Union? And there is also scepticism in Denmark. What does the rapporteur think is the reason for this? Because he must also accept that it exists. What are the reasons from the point of view of the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20170324154639	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324154640	Thank you. Well, I also think that the spring mood will come in with Mr. Simpson. Søren Espersen, when the sun shines even more than it does today. I'm sure of it. I do not think I have talked about such an EU enthusiasm, but you can see that the opinion polls being carried out in the various countries show that support for the European Union is increasing. And it is not, of course, because you necessarily want to be a member of the club, and it is not necessarily the case that you think that everything the club does is fantastic. You might also see that the club does not deliver the results that you had hoped for. I think the reasons are more. One of them is that there has been a dissatisfaction that the major problems that the European Union has had on its table have not been resolved. This is, for example, the refugee and migrant crisis, where it has been seen that the external borders have been hollowed and that registrations have not been made, etc. of refugees and migrants who should have been made. I think that's one of the explanations, absolutely. It can then be seen that the European Union has become much better and, above all, the agreement between the European Union and Turkey is a very good example of being able to make policies that have worked so well. I think that's one of the explanations, but there's a lot of them, and they don't allow time for us to get in depth with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324154757	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324154758	However, I believe that it is precisely the big things that make people in many places back out. In the Foreign Minister's speech, there was a whole lot about all these small things that I think it is, and which, in fact, is just called the principle of subsidiarity, so that we could be allowed to do all those small, indifferent things ourselves. I believe this is due to the great things like Schengen, border controls, the free movement of workers, the intolerable activism of the European Court of Justice and social dumping. In other words, the things that matter to the individual citizen. I think that is why. I think that the citizens could easily accept that the European Union dealt with such petty-pocket things, but that instead of taking care of the big things that make us still able to preserve our freedom and our independence.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324154846	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324154848	I think we read some things a little differently, and it doesn't really matter either. In other words, I do not think it has been seen in the Netherlands that the EU-critical parties have stormed up. After all, it is still a matter of a massive majority of Dutch people supporting EU-positive parties, I am sorry, but it is like a massive majority of Danes voting for EU-positive parties, and a massive majority of Danes in polling after polling support the European project. The free movement of workers has certainly played a part, and I believe that this includes, among other things, the right to freedom of movement for workers. because there has been too much focus on those who have come here and too little focus on all those, such as Danes, who are travelling out. In other words, there are almost as many Danes travelling to other EU countries to work and study as there are EU citizens coming to Denmark to work and study. This is an element of the debate that has hardly been forthcoming. Then there has probably also been too much focus on some of the negative aspects of the free movement of labour, where one forgot to tell that the bottom line, that is the net result, is a plus.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324154953	Thank you to the rapporteur. There's no more comments, and then it's sir. Nikolaj Villumsen as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324155005	The problem with the European Union is not that there are too few rights for large multinationals. The problem with the European Union is not that there is too little internal market, where concern for people and the environment is subject to the consideration of large companies and business. In other words, the problem with the European Union is not that there is too little free trade and too little internal market. The problem is precisely that the conditions and conditions of ordinary employees are being put under pressure by the race towards bottom and social dumping, created by the neoliberal rules with which the internal market has been constructed. The problem with the European Union is that the free trade agreement, which is being tried to get through with Canada and the United States, is being negotiated behind closed doors. And if they are implemented, they will allow multinational companies to sue Denmark if, for example, we in the Danish Parliament decide to improve consumer protection, improve worker protection or improve environmental protection. This will not happen in Danish courts, but in newly created special courts. In other words, it is precisely the internal market and free trade that are one of the problems that is happening right now. It puts ordinary employees under pressure, it undermines our folk rule and limits our ability to make democratic decisions here in the Folketing. I think most of us would like to slim us down, and I remember having it as a New Year's resolution a few times or three. There is nothing wrong with having that, but the question is, of course, what you mean by slimming down the European Union. If you think that you want more internal market and therefore more social dumping, more free trade and thus more race towards the bottom, then of course we do not support it on the part of the Enhedslisten. This is by no means the same as the fact that the Enhedslisten does not believe that the European Union decides everything, too much, because unfortunately the European Union does. But I have to say that, for example, when the Danish People's Party today puts forward a proposal that is aimed at focusing on the single market back, I simply do not understand it. Because it is precisely the internal market that creates social dumping. It is the internal market which prevents the majority in the Folketing from, for example, preventing it from doing so. to decide to ban carburettor alcohol in tattoo ink, which causes huge numbers of people health problems. It is the internal market that puts pressure on welfare, and it is the internal market that has created the free movement of wage-pressing. In other words, it is precisely the internal market, which is a central part of the problems faced by a great many Danes, and this is where changes are needed, for example in the form of a social protocol, so that we can secure the possibility of demanding contractual conditions from foreign workers and giving the trade union movement the tool taken from them by the European Court of Justice. After all, the European Union has spread across some areas in which the people had been promised the European Union would never interfere. So, the voters have been promised that the European Union would never interfere in our welfare, and the voters have been promised, when there was a referendum, that the European Union would never interfere in our labour market. However, the European Union has done so, and it is deeply problematic, and it is simply unacceptable that the EU-enthusiastic parties should either try to avoid referenda, such as with the Treaty of Lisbon, or, when there is a referendum, say that the European Union will never interfere in welfare or the labour market, then it will happen and then you can see the parties accepting it without doing anything about it. I do not think this is a fair way of treating the Folketing and the people. So if a slimmer EU wants more free trade and more internal market, it is not with the support of Enhedslisten. If, on the other hand, you want to strengthen the people's rule and make it possible to ensure welfare and the Danish labour market model, then you have full support from Enhedslisten. Against this background, on behalf of the Enhedslisten, I would like to make the following points: Proposals for adoption The government's focus on free trade and the internal market do not solve the specific problems that people face in their daily lives. For this reason, the Danish Parliament calls on the government to work to solve the acute problems of, among other things: to work for: establishment of a Treaty social protocol to protect social and collective rights against the free movement of the internal market and to ensure that mobile workers at least always work on the same pay and working conditions as in the host country. The rejection of free trade agreements such as CETA, TTIP and TiSA, the sole purpose of which is to give the multinationals more power at the expense of democracy, workers and the environment. The possibility for Member States to take the lead in banning endocrine disruptors, toxic substances in tattoo ink, etc. A clash with the undemocratic structure of the European Union, which deprives people of the opportunity to influence decisions that affect their own everyday lives. • V 60)
ParlaMint-DK_20170324155627	Thank you. And the first brief remark comes from Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324155634	Thank you. Carburettor spirit in tattoo ink, yes, we better get out of that internal market, I can see that. I do not know why this surprises me, because it should not surprise me that a supersocialist party, or what we should call what Enhedslisten is against the market, because it is market forces. So, whether it is an internal market or an external market, it is something that we would, of course, like to see abolished. In other words, if the Enhedslisten were to decide that we should withdraw from the European Union, out of the internal market and so on, what would we put in place? Do you have a bid for that?
ParlaMint-DK_20170324155713	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324155716	Thank you for that question. Well, Enhedslisten is in favour of trade. We are in favour of trading with each other, including across borders. However, the problem with the European Union's internal market is that it has been designed to place concern for businesses above the concerns of people and the environment, over the possibility, for example, of banning carburetor alcohol in tattoo ink. You may laugh a little at the fact that it is being highlighted, but it is actually something that is a huge problem for a great many Danes. And I think that many will raise their eyebrows when they hear that this is something that we simply cannot decide to ban here in the Folketing because of the creation of the internal market.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324155806	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324155808	Ahr, I suppose no one is forcing tattooists to use ink with carburetor alcohol, and no one is forbidding customers to ask the tattooist what he has poured into his ink, but leave it now. I note that I did not really get an answer to what you want to replace the internal market, because I heard the speech from the Enhedslisten in such a way that you do not want the internal market.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324155838	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324155841	Well, as I tried to make clear, and I should like to say it even more clearly, we want to change the design of the internal market so that it will be possible to take the lead and, for example, ban carburetor alcohol in a tattoo in order to take greater account of consumers, so that we do not have this total harmonisation, which prevents countries from taking the lead, but instead introduce minimum standards that lay a bottom and stop a race down.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324155918	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324155926	The Enhedslisten is very much aware that the EU is a neoliberal project. That was said several times by Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen. Does Enhedslisten believe that it is neoliberal policy when Margrethe Vestager twists his arm around Apple, Microsoft and the big multinational companies to pay more in tax and not to abuse their position on the market?
ParlaMint-DK_20170324155952	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324155954	No, I think it is positive that the Commissioner is doing so.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324160000	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324160002	I understand that here is an example of the European Union not being a neoliberal project.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324160009	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324160010	Well, I think it's absolutely crucial that everyone is pressured to pay taxes, not least the big and powerful. But as Mr. Holger K. Nielsen also mentioned in his speech in the previous debate that we had, the debate on the European Union, there is a huge problem with the right-wing economic policy that the European Union is forcing countries to pursue, even when a majority of the people of a country democratically choose to go another way, as we have seen in Greece, for example, where the left-wing has won over austerity policy, but where the European Union has blackmailed the Greek Government into implementing a misguided right-wing economic policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324160054	Thank you, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324160101	Thank you. After all, we have just had a debate in which a very wide range of rapporteurs have found that European cooperation is absolutely crucial when resolving cross-border problems. But there is part of the problem of cross-border issues which I do not really think we have talked about enough and which I would like to bring up. The case will be that I was in Russia at week 10 with the Foreign Policy Name and that yesterday I was in Brussels to discuss Brexit with various good people. Russia is a country that has condemned itself to being a raw material economy because of the way it has arranged, how people can move across the border and how goods can move across the border. The European Union has changed its structure so that modern production can be achieved at all. A car consists of things that are made in dozens of countries and that pass across borders and become assembled, so if we do not have the political structures in place, then the economy simply cannot develop. What are the problems of the British and which have not been talked about so much is that they can fall out of the modern production economy if they do not have some arrangements that replace the ones they have. That is how the European Union will always have to develop. If you want to develop from a production economy to a knowledge economy, you also have to get a whole lot of legal and other practical structures in place. So cross-border problems are not just climate issues and environmental issues, although they are important problems; in fact, they are also how the economy can become more productive and develop more efficiently. So if you dismantle parts of European cooperation, you risk making yourself even more poor. The European Union has changed in a large number of areas and perhaps it has not been emphasised enough what this cross-border issue means. The European Union has tied the countries to a whole lot of rules and procedures, and I believe that in the future there will be very few international players who can make rules. As Mr. Holger K. Nielsen mentioned just now, the EU is strong enough to make rules, and there won't be as many who can. However, what is, of course, the problem with the European Union, which is the starting point for the government's desire for the European Union to be a stronger, leaner and more effective European Union, is that sometimes the European Union is also its own worst enemy. Of course, we must help the European Union not to be as good as we can be. One of the people to whom members of the Folketing spoke yesterday was the former Belgian Prime Minister, Guy Verhofstadt, and if I am to sum up what Verhofstadt said, he said that the EU sometimes has a tendency to jump out of the window and expect a solution to come down. This is not very clever, and we simply need to adapt more sensibly. But you have removed the internal borders without speculating on the external border, you have created a currency without wondering that you were not a state. There have been a number of problems which have not been resolved, and we must, of course, do something about that. There are some areas where cooperation works inappropriately and where the government has said it will work for a stronger, leaner and more effective EU. The point is that you do not do that by proclamations, by saying that you want to make a treaty change, or that you want to come and change everything. This is simply done by having a common thread in the approach to everything you do in the European Union. So what is involved in working for a leaner, stronger and more effective European Union is not to make very great proclamations, but it is every time you work with the European Union to have a common thread that is that you put emphasis on these things. That is how I interpret the desire to do so first and foremost. Talking about changing things doesn't change anything. It is the day-to-day work of making the EU slimmer and more efficient that helps, and that is why, of course, we support the proposal for adoption that has already been read out.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324160542	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kenneth Kristensen Berth from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324160546	Sir. After all, Henrik Dahl is a thoughtful person, and I have a little bit of a feeling that Mr. Henrik Dahl's EU scepticism may not be fully reflected in what Mr. Henrik Dahl goes over in his rapporteur's speech. Well, there was an excellent interview with sir. Henrik Dahl in RÆSON a few years ago, where Mr. Henrik Dahl spoke about the nation state, about the importance of having a nation state and about the need for solidarity within a nation state that is difficult to re-establish in a conglomerate that the European Union is well aware of. And, of course, these are considerations which I fully agree with Mr McMillan-Scott. Henrik Dahl in. So says Mr. Henrik Dahl something about borders that I find quite interesting. Sir. Henrik Dahl says, and now I read straight out: 'And it has been such an agonizing process, where you would say that the frontier-free Europe is fantastic, it turns out not to be right. It is based on an incorrect analysis of the nation state. That is why we have to say that we must, of course, have some soft borders in Europe, but we just must not end up in a situation where we have no borders. Well, then the question is to Mr. Henrik Dahl: Is that not one of the things where the European Union could be slimmed down, i.e. that one could, for example, be slimmed down? allowed the nation states to have border controls?
ParlaMint-DK_20170324160701	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324160705	After all, this is an issue which can very quickly develop into a number of markings that do not make you much wiser. Borders are, of course, absolutely crucial, and that is also what is meant in the interview in terms of political legitimacy. When it comes to politics, we have strict limits, in relation to how far the jurisdiction of the Danish authorities, etc. etc. I'm gonna go. They are absolutely necessary in order to maintain the legitimacy of political decisions. There can be no doubt about that. But we also need to be aware, as I also said, that what the European Union has done is that the European Union has created the opportunities for modern, high-efficiency production, by really being able to do, and I do not think that we are particularly divided about that either. So I would like to discuss different types of borders and, of course, there must be an external border which one can really do that is essential for Schengen to work. So I just call for us to avoid such very ideological exchanges of headlines.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324160807	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324160809	Sir. Henrik Dahl is getting better and better at paddling like a real politician, and that's fine too. Henrik Dahl is allowed to go because I think that, sir. Henrik Dahl actually thinks that's it, sir. Henrik Dahl says in this interview, and it is quite right, that you have to have a limit, and that you also have to have some limits in Denmark, and then especially when they do not work abroad. So I just want to say that I like it, sir. Henrik Dahl speaking in RÆSON. The sir. Henrik Dahl, who speaks from the platform, is bound by some other conditions, and I respect that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324160845	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324160847	It is in fact the same person who wrote the article and who is standing here and speaking, and this unitary person is actually trying to express the same thing, in other words that when it comes to political legitimacy, when it comes to establishing solidarity in a political area at all, even with regard to our social systems and so on, borders are absolutely essential. But we would be much, much poorer if we had, for example. customs borders and had to enforce them very, very hard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324160915	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl. We shall now proceed to the rapporteur of the alternative, Mr Beyer de Ryke, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324160923	Thank you. It can be said that this debate on the question is strange, following the debate we have just had, where we have just talked about the development and the situation in the European Union. Basically, I find the concept of a slimmer European Union very difficult. It's probably mostly my own body situation that disqualifies me from participating in that part of the debate. I would like to say a little about what I really want for the European Union and perhaps clarify some of what I said earlier. For us, it is absolutely crucial to face up to some very serious cross-border challenges that cannot be solved alone. We believe that, because it is cooperation that works, the European Union is actually absolutely crucial. It is, of course, about the climate challenges, first and foremost. It's also about security. It's about a number of things. Especially with the climate and environmental agenda, we see the European Union as a key player. We can also see that it is the European Union that very often drives global development in this area, because fortunately we are some countries that agree that something needs to be done. It does not mean that I am clapping on everything that comes from the European Union. But that is the political content with which I disagree. This is what we put into cooperation, which I believe is the greatest challenge. That is what is up to the electorate when they elect the European Parliament and they elect the national parliaments and hence the governments. I can then work against this, along with my other good, green and progressive forces across Europe. How can we get a different and stronger green agenda for the European Union? If I am going to point out something that I actually think needs to be improved in cooperation itself, not the content, then for the alternative, there is a lot to be done about looking at democratization and greater transparency in cooperation. We have not concealed the fact that we would like to see the interinstitutional interaction changed, the right of initiative transferred to Parliament, which is democratically elected, rather than to the Commission. We would also like to see much more transparency in meetings in ECOFIN, for example, etc., because we believe that this is what helps to improve the democratic legitimacy of the project. Slimmer, bigger, smaller, stronger, weaker are said. In other words, it is primarily about making the content of the cooperation that we have much, much greener and more social. It is a political battle to be fought by politicians in the national parliaments and the European Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324161210	Thank you. Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party, has a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324161215	Thank you. I'm not surprised, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist isn't in on the slimmer thing. Well, it's not because of Mr. Knox. Rasmus Nordqvist's body structure, which is certainly quite fine and included in the new man ideal about having a daddybody, or whatever it is called. What I just want to hear from the alternative is the definition of the word slimmer. Earlier in the debate, we discussed this a little. I got sir. Rasmus Nordqvist to venture to mention the word infrastructure when it comes to things that the EU should not take care of. Now, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist had a little time of reflection, so now I just want to give Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist a third chance to perhaps say a little more than infrastructure about what the EU should not take care of.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324161312	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324161313	The great thing about getting to know your colleagues very well is that you could have known that this question is coming back from Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth. For me, it's about how we work together. I tried to explain that when I said that something is about coordination and various things. There are no areas in which we say we should work together, and there are other areas in which we say we should not work together. There are different ways of working together. That cooperation can be very decision-making, so we are doing total harmonisation. There may be minimum standards and there may be simple coordination. That is what we think is absolutely central. That is what I was trying to explain with the example of infrastructure, which was apparently very foreign to hear from my mouth, I understand from the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324161357	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324161359	I think we just have to say quietly that we remain on infrastructure. It's like that. That's okay, too. It only helps to draw a picture of the alternative's enthusiasm for the very idea of European cooperation, which is not consistent with ours, one might say. It's okay. I really think it is nice to have a party in the Folketing that is very honest with its EU enthusiasm. As I have said before, there have been many other parties in this Chamber who have expressed scepticism, but when you get down to it, the parties cannot really find out what that scepticism might contain. So I would like to commend the alternative for stating clearly that you are an EU-enthusiastic party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324161444	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324161445	First of all, I would like to say that the questioner started out quite precisely by saying that the alternative is crazy about the idea of European cooperation. Yeah, we really love that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324161456	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, and we shall proceed immediately to the next rapporteur, and that is Mrs Zenia Stampe, on behalf of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324161504	My relationship with Mr. Knox isn't... Kenneth Kristensen Berth, who sits and smiles down there as if it were meant personally; it is not the words "a slimmer EU" has always been a bit strained. I know it's almost the same thing as Mr. Simpson. Kenneth Kristensen Berth. It really has something to do with the Danish debate. It has been a chorus that I have heard a lot of parties singing along. But the verses have been very different. If you were liberal, it was a slimmer EU with a focus on the internal market and what companies need. If you asked a Social Democrat, it was a slimmer EU with a focus on working conditions and combating social dumping. If you asked the Conservatives, there might be a focus on justice, law and law, etc. We were asked radicals if we were finally forced to narrow it down, perhaps we would say something with the greens and so on. That's why it was such a chorus everyone could agree on, but we made each our bid for a diet. If you use all the different diets with proteins, the one with carbohydrates and the one with fat, it really ends up pretty big at the end. It is okay in a political debate to place emphasis on various areas, depending on political beliefs. That is quite fair, and we must have the political debate. It is also essential. I really welcome all those inputs. I have had a difficult relationship with the debate because, despite these differences, we have sung in chorus every time the chorus came, that we want a slimmer European Union. Because this is absolutely impossible when you pick up the various wishes for a slimmer EU. It can therefore be said that the very framework of this debate has not grown in our backyard. However, there is, of course, something to be done in the great opaque bureaucracy that has existed in the European Union and that the Commission, even when it took office, could well sense with the increasing EU scepticism that culminated in brexit, was a place where a change of course had to be made. That is why the Commission has also presented considerably fewer initiatives than have been done in the past. I am not sure that this is something you as a citizen really notice. I'll tell you what. I do not know whether this is how you go out and convince the people of Europe to be enthusiastic about the European Union. I think it has more to do with the external circumstances that we discussed in the previous debate. This is the perspective that shows how important the European Union is in a wider context. However, there is no doubt that there is a danger that the EU will grow into bureaucracy, and that is why it is good that there has been a Commission that has had as one of its aims that we can use the word slimming down bureaucracy, review unnecessary legislation, withdraw legislative initiatives which are nevertheless stranded or sandy in the process. Otherwise, I think there is a paradox in this discussion. It is said that the European Union must do something about what really concerns its citizens. Just take a question like migration. This is really something that concerns the citizens. I know that too; it concerns us. However, if the European Union is really going to do something about that problem, the European Union must also have the power to do so. And a lot of parties say that they are not willing to give it to the European Union. They'll solve it themselves. That is why there is a paradox in the fact that in some of the areas where the European Union might be able to do the most, the countries have the least interest in giving up sovereignty. The area of foreigners is a very good example of this. We're crazy about environmental legislation. At least there are many of us in Denmark who think it is very good with high standards. There are probably politicians in countries around the European Union who think that this is untimely interference in their sovereignty, and they must keep high standards for which they are not ardent advocates. When you say great things when it comes to big things and small things when it comes to small things, I would say that it is probably also a matter of political taste. It may depend on ideology, it may also depend on where one comes from, what tradition and culture that country has. Therefore, the big diet is really difficult because there will probably be 27 different versions of what the diet should contain, just as there are probably X number of versions here in the Folketing. However, this is, of course, an important debate every time, and every time, of course, one has to try to prove why this is an issue that belongs on the EU track and not just the tracks of the national states.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324162007	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324162010	I really think that was a rather balanced rapporteur's speech, which Mrs Zenia Stampe gave. I don't know if it's because of the late hour or what it is, but I actually think it was. I would really like to know, Mrs Zenia Stampe, if you now take the five perspectives that Juncker has put forward for the future of the European Union towards a decision at the December summit, what is that hand on the heart in which the Radical Left sees itself best? What kind of perspective is that in which the Radical Left thinks: if we could now have what we want, in which direction were we going? I am also thinking of the fact that the party sits in the ALDE Group together with the Left, which is so little of a paradox which is the most federalist group in the European Parliament. Where is it that the Radical Left like sees the EU moving across the board?
ParlaMint-DK_20170324162110	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324162111	I understand that some kind of bait is being laid out for me, but let me just be honest. There is no doubt that we are enthusiastic about the European Union. We believe that there are a great many problems that can be solved best together, and we wish that everyone else looked at it like that ah, it is also always good with a little counter-play. But that many others looked at it that way would be our wish here in Denmark, and we would like more of the Member States to look at it that way too, but that is not the reality. That is why we do not believe that this is the way it will be: it will be a stronger European Union, just out there and more sovereignty, etc. etc. That is why I believe that we are probably more likely to play it with a multi-speed Europe where there are some driving forces, some countries that come together in different areas and are driving there. We believe that this can create more dynamism and thus be a better strategy towards our objectives, which are stronger and more dynamic and ambitious cooperation. There we believe that the idea of a multispeed Europe is a more realistic way of achieving stronger cooperation than a strong Europe, where we must all step in step, because we do not, and we will never do so. So, although we have been rather sceptical about a multispeed Europe in the past, we believe in it more now.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324162239	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324162242	I'm always willing to put out bait for Mrs. Zenia Stampe. Mrs Zenia Stampe is also the other way, I can tell you, in relation to the European Committee meetings it is always nice. I also understand where Mrs Zenia Stampe is going with this multi-speed Europe, but where is Denmark going to lie in it, i.e. in these concentric circles as you imagine? Is this back to the one close to the core debate, where we are also clinning up Belgium and Luxembourg, or where, within those circles, the rapporteur imagines that Denmark should lie?
ParlaMint-DK_20170324162326	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324162327	Well, we'd like to be close to the core. But now it can be said that a multispeed Europe will have more cores and we would like to be close to all the grains. But we are also comfortable with a Europe that can move forward, even if Denmark sometimes slows down. That's one of them. We, who have, in other words, provoked the whole idea of a multi-speed Europe, because we ourselves want to be on the rear wheel or what to call it. So in this way, it is a perfectly logical consequence of our own EU policy. So not the Radical Left's EU policy, but Danish EU policy. But it is clear that if it were up to us, we should be in the core, and I also think that most Danes have it, so that we should be close to the core. But we are also more confident that when we choose not to be close to the core, some others take responsibility for driving the project forward. Because that's what we believe is right, but sometimes we just have to realize that it's not us who have to do it, but some others.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324162429	Thank you to Mrs Zenia Stampe, there are no more brief comments. Then we'd really, really like to have mr. Holger K. Nielsen up on the platform, as it is his turn.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324162448	Thank you, President. As others have also said, this discussion is, after all, very politically determined. I very much agree with Mrs Zenia Stampe in her description of how different political parties and directions define what is important about the European Union and what they mean by slimming down the European Union. Because there's a difference between what you think should be slimmed down. There are some who were having all the regulation away, so you get an internal market. That is what the Right wants and what the British Conservatives want. After all, it is their wet dream that all regulation disappears. Then there are others who want more regulation and, in fact, less internal market, because it is believed that the European Union can be a protection against globalisation, which must also be managed. So that debate is undoubtedly very, very difficult. But then we just have to recognise that there is no objective answer to it. I must also admit that when I heard it again from leading EU people after Brexit, I thought that I had heard that before. This has been said every time there has been, for example. a referendum where problems have subsequently arisen: now we have to tackle this. And the truth is that there are so many interests involved that it is much easier said than done and therefore it is not taken seriously. So should we not start somewhere else and discuss what regulation we need in Europe if we are to make this work and what we need to use of instruments to get that regulation up? And we are very concerned about the social area, for example, that we should have an internal market. We are in favour of the single market; we believe it has been a huge advantage for European citizens. However, as in all other cases, the market must also be regulated in terms of social conditions in order to avoid social dumping, in terms of environmental conditions, in order to avoid unfair competition in poor environments and to take greater account of people, the environment and social conditions at all. Is that possible? Yes, of course it can, and that is what the political struggle is very much about. So it is an important recognition that this is a deep political debate, that there are no objective answers to it and that it reflects the fact that the European Union is a political battleground where different interests meet and fight against each other. And following on from what we talked about earlier today, what is unique about EU cooperation is simply that in the past, where we ripped our heads off, cut our stomachs on each other, we are now sitting in the negotiating rooms discussing and negotiating boring things such as quota arrangements for fish, agricultural policy, etc. And that is exactly where the peace-making lies: we talk, we negotiate with each other instead of tearing each other's heads apart.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324162813	Thank you. There are no brief comments, sir. Holger K. Nielsen. The last rapporteur should have been Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, but I do not see him in the Chamber, and so I would like to give the floor to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324162835	Thank you for that and thank you for a very good debate. Of course, in such a debate, there will always be a tendency to speak up some differences which, of course, are on our approach to European cooperation. But it must also be said that at the same time there is a great deal that we can agree on and which brings together a very broad majority in the Folketing. Firstly, there can be no doubt that in these years Europe is facing a number of challenges of a cross-border nature. We all know what we're talking about. It is migration, it is a lack of control of the EU's external borders, it is counter-terrorism, a lack of growth and employment and the situation in the EU's neighbourhood. These are examples of cross-border problems that affect us all. Secondly, I also sense that there is a relatively broad consensus that although we may disagree on how these challenges should be dealt with precisely, there is agreement that it is difficult to avoid strong and binding international cooperation and that the European Union has a key role to play in this regard too. Thirdly, I think there is a picture that there is agreement that what is needed is that concrete results can be delivered. We should not waste time and effort on Treaty changes. I certainly do not feel that there is much demand in this Chamber. By the way, it would also take years to get through with it, and all the time we would have spent discussing it, we could have spent on something different and at the same time more sensible. Instead, we must focus on delivering results here and now for the benefit of the individual citizen and the individual company, and this work will continue, even after today's debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324163020	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kenneth Kristensen Berth from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324163025	Thank you. I have to say that, unfortunately, I do not feel as much smarter as I was when I started here after reading the Prime Minister's opinion article in Berlingske. I must admit that I am becoming increasingly mystified in relation to the message that the Minister for Foreign Affairs, when the Minister for Foreign Affairs was not Minister for Foreign Affairs, said that the Liberal Alliance would be responsible for a more EU-sceptic policy than the Danish People's Party. Well, I just can't see it. This is completely impossible for me in the light of the debate we are having here, where the Liberal Alliance, as a governing party, has joined up with a series of other strongly enthusiastic European parties such as the Alternative and Radical Left on a joint proposal for adoption. Will the Foreign Minister still think that the party represented by the Foreign Minister is more EU-sceptic than the party I represent, the Danish People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20170324163127	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324163129	No, I do not really think I do, in the sense that it seems to have become the goal of the Danish People's Party to have Denmark withdrawn from the European Union, and that is not what we are saying, and we have never done so in the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324163141	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324163142	It is very strange that the Secretary of State is now here after we started at 8:00. 12.30 or something like that 4 hours of debate is left with the impression that the main aim of the Danish People's Party is to get Denmark out of the EU. After all, we are having a debate now on slimmer cooperation, because that is what we want. We want the European Union to come back to the core, to come back to cooperation, which is about the internal market and tasks closely linked to the internal market. In this article, which I have read, about the Foreign Minister and where the Foreign Minister has spoken, the Foreign Minister also says very precisely that this is what the Liberal Alliance wants, that is to say, an EU centred on the internal market. So, immediately, would I believe that the Liberal Alliance would have supported the Danish People's Party's proposal for adoption if the Liberal Alliance had not been in government or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20170324163241	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324163242	After all, the proposal for adoption, which has been put forward here and which has a broad majority behind it, focuses on some of the things that I have also mentioned both in my introductory speech and in my final speech, namely that we must deliver concrete results on the cross-border challenges that exist, and we must do this for the benefit of citizens and businesses. At the same time, this work is something which, with the text of the proposal for adoption, is supported by a broad majority in the Folketing that we must continue to promote on the European agenda. I believe that since the statement that has been referred to me, it has become clearer, perhaps also within the DF, that what you really want is to tear the EU apart and put Denmark out of the EU. And it seems that there are 13 per cent of the measurements.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324163346	Thank you. There are no further brief comments to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Sorry, there is. Sir. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324163359	Thank you. I am disappointed in the attitude of the government. In other words, the fact that we now have to deal with specific matters and that we need to have a slimmer European Union has been heard from changing governments over the last 30 years. The problem is not the small things that are mentioned. The problem is, of course, that the people around us are backing out because we do not want to do anything about the things that are big and that concern the citizens. It is border controls, Schengen, the free movement of workers, the activism of the European Court of Justice and social dumping that matter, and that will not be touched. These are the areas where people could be brought in. For example, if they said that we are now working to withdraw from Schengen, because we want to be allowed to preserve and protect our own borders, then I am sure that the attitude towards the European Union would be quite different in Denmark and probably in many other European countries as well. So what I hear the Foreign Minister say is that we keep doing these little things and that concrete things need to be on the table and the people will then be excited about the European Union. That's just not gonna happen. These are pure dreams that changing governments have had for 30 years, as I said.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324163507	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324163508	I simply do not agree with the author of the question, and it was also almost a conclusion that came from the questioner. But I do not share that conclusion. What I have stressed several times today is precisely that we must deliver in the concrete areas, that we must deliver in terms of migration, in terms of external border control, in terms of counter-terrorism and in terms of growth and employment and orderly, good conditions in the labour market. The issues that Mr. Søren Espersen is actually taking up exactly those that we are pointing to being delivered on, and that is also going to be more so than was done just a year and a half ago. Because we are not in the same situation as we did a year and a half ago when we saw people walking on motorways. We do, among other things. not because, after all, the external borders have been better managed. It is a common goal that we have, and we then share it with the Danish People's Party. This is an example of the fact that we are also beginning to focus on the tasks that may have been taken too lightly in the past, so that they are now taken more seriously. That is a good sign, and we must rejoice in it together.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324163608	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324163609	But can I ask in another way? Could the Foreign Minister imagine that the reason why Britain resigned from the European Union was the free movement of workers? Could the Foreign Minister imagine that this was the decisive reason? That was the crucial reason, and that is also the crucial reason why, if it does, it will end up with a referendum in France. That is also the crucial reason there. These are the great things I have mentioned that matter to the individual citizen, and they are completely resistant to changing governments, because they do not want to mess with them, because that destroys ideology. It destroys ideology, and Danish governments have been very good at playing along that ideological music, and that the new government here, also with a Secretary of State from the Liberal Alliance, is following it and just continuing along the same boring path, I think is deeply, deeply disappointing. I'll tell you what.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324163705	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324163706	But that is not true again. For example: This is the indexing of welfare benefits that we specifically take up and I'm taking it out on my alliance journey, which I'm going out on, for example. to provide greater support for us to sort this out, after all, a concrete element of the problem of migrant workers and the consequences of migrant workers. This is a point which helps to reduce support for the free movement of labour. We are taking it up in concrete terms. The specific criticisms we take into account in the work of the government are listened to, and we take them out when we discuss them with our colleagues, and hopefully we will succeed in getting things right. So I do not think that this is a justified criticism, as is the case with the external borders, which there really was reason to criticise that there was no control. This has been better dealt with, and that should be acknowledged, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324163756	Then I think we've got everyone on board, except for Mr. Knox. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, who has asked for the floor for the second round.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324163810	Thank you. I really wanted to stand up here to say that we had had a fruitful debate, then the Foreign Minister said that he thought that the whole of the Danish People's Party's raison d'être was to get Denmark out of the EU. Then I had to say that although we have been discussing for four hours now, it is not quite clear that the first and foremost purpose of the Danish People's Party is to reform the European Union so that we can still be part of it. The moment that this is not possible, and we have to throw the towel in the ring and see that we cannot move forward, it may then be appropriate to withdraw from the European Union, because of course we should not be able to accept everything. We have been around a lot, but it must also be said that there is a very large difference between what the parties here in the Folketing actually mean by having a slimmer cooperation. When parties such as the Radical Left and the Alternative can see themselves in a proposal for adoption together with Denmark, at least until today the second most EU-sceptic party, namely the Liberal Alliance, at least according to the party itself, it is very, very difficult to see exactly what is involved in this cooperation being slimmer. We would have liked to say that I would like to say a few strong markings in relation to the desire to return power to the nation states. We would also have liked to see a non-prejudiced debate on border controls and the fact that, of course, the Member States must have borders, as Mr. Henrik Dahl also made an excellent statement in the Ræson article. But we must also note that there are at least not yet. If we get there at some point, we'll see. Normally, I would never consider whether a party was present or not present here in a debate in the Parliamentary Assembly, but I must say that I find it sad that the Conservative People's Party, which, in entering the government, has decided never to have been more EU skeptical than today, has chosen to say that it cannot be represented in two debates about the European Union this afternoon. And the party has even been strengthened by deputies who have come to Parliament to ensure that they too, as a small party, could be maneuverable. But we have not chosen to be here today, and I find that sad. It would have been nice if all the governing parties had been present and had taken part in the important debate on EU cooperation. However, I would like to say that I think we have had an excellent debate, and at least, if nothing else, it has illustrated that there are very different ideas about what it means to have slimmer cooperation in the European Union. Finally, I would like to say that, after all, I also welcome the fact that there are some parties in this Chamber who are not under the chair. So we have to say that the alternative and radical left are relatively clear in terms of their EU political profile. There can be no doubt about that, it is fully-fledged EU enthusiasm and one must have respect for that. It's a little harder with those parties in the Folketing, who are greasy with the attitudes and who want to talk about a slimmer collaboration, but where it's infinitely hard to get it down to a concrete level, even if group presidents had to say one thing and the other to newspapers around. But thank you for a good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324164144	It's not finished yet. One individual was inspired by a brief remark, and that is Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324164152	That is because I am actually a little curious about the request, because when you call for a question debate and say that there is something special that you would like to have discussed, it has swung back and forth as to what I actually understood was the content here. Is it to talk form, in other words, as far as EU cooperation is concerned, whether we should cooperate? Or is it talking content, that is, political content? So I have some doubts, so can the rapporteur clarify that? Is it the form in which we cooperate at all, or is it the political content against which the rapporteur is opposed?
ParlaMint-DK_20170324164228	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324164229	I'm really sorry, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist did not ask that question when I was in the Chair for the first time, because then we would have been able to continue the debate on the basis of that answer. I'd say it's both. When we talk about a reform of the European Union and what we want from the European Union, it is institutional reform, i.e. the abandonment of the Commission, for example, the abandonment of the European Parliament and the right of initiative for the Member States, and when we talk about the substance, it is also affected. We want, for example. border controls. We want it restored. We want freedom of movement for workers to be abolished and, in general terms, we want the European Union to be sabotaged, to simply go through what areas the European Union should deal with and which areas the European Union should not deal with, in fact, the catalogue of competences that Anders Fogh Rasmussen spoke about, I was just saying, in the morning of time, but it is still not so long ago. So it's both. It is a slimmer institution and a slimmer political portfolio.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324164331	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324164332	But when I did not ask about this when the rapporteur was up for the first time, it was because it sounded like it was the political content we were going to talk about to be slimmer, which areas we were going to work on and what we were and disagree on in relation to. There are some who would like to cooperate on refugees, etc. And then all of a sudden here in the second round we see you knock out your arms a little and refer to other parties as very enthusiastic about it all. Sometimes I just want us to split up the discussions and talk about political content and form, so we actually move on in this discussion and not keep running in circles all the time. I think that this is a very important discussion about the capacity of the institutions, as I myself mentioned. How are they supposed to be built up? But there is also the whole thing with what political content we put into the institutions, whether there are two, three or one-and-a-half, right?
ParlaMint-DK_20170324164423	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324164424	Yeah. The starting point of the debate is, of course, that the government in its government base has written about slimmer cooperation, and it is also very difficult to find out what the government means by that. And that is what was our intention here, that we should try to get deeper into it. I am not quite sure that we achieved that, but if nothing else we have had the debate. I don't see it as a starting point, even though I was a little confused by it, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist said, as a criticism that I pointed to the alternative as an EU-enthusiastic party. No, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist not on, no, that's good. I just had to make sure that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324164512	Thank you. Then it is the last chance to make more comments on this debate. Are there any other rapporteurs who would like to speak? There isn't. Does the Minister want the last word? Apparently, he doesn't. Then no one else has asked for the floor, and the negotiations have therefore been concluded. As mentioned above, the vote on the three proposals for adoption will not take place until Tuesday 28 March 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324164549	The debate has been opened, and that is what the Minister for Foreign Affairs is going to start. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324164608	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking the proposers for highlighting the essential issue of Danish ratification of the Kampala amendments. Since the establishment of the International Criminal Court, the ICC, in 1998, there has been a broad consensus in the Danish Parliament that the ICC is a priority in Danish foreign policy. Across changing governments, we have insisted that the fight against impunity for the most serious international crimes is not only morally right and necessary, but a strong international criminal court can also help to ensure that potential perpetrators understand that abuses against the population involve a real risk of punishment and that the victims of the crimes feel that their suffering is recognised. It helps to ensure that the conflicts do not flare up again. We are not living in a perfect world, and the ICC is not a perfect court, but this government, like previous governments, is convinced that the ICC as an institution deserves our wholehearted support. Most recently, among the parties here in the Folketing, there has been broad support for the ICC to have jurisdiction over the horrible crimes that we are experiencing in Syria. However, as you know, this has not happened because of Russian and Chinese resistance in the Security Council. So when the government cannot support the motion for a resolution tabled today, it is not about lack of support for the ICC. The government wholeheartedly supports the important work of the ICC, and as a starting point I look forward to a future Danish ratification of the Kampala amendments. The reason why we cannot support the motion for a resolution is that we do not yet have the full basis necessary for us to be able to state unequivocally that Denmark will ratify the Kampala amendments. It is a decision that requires proper preparatory work and a well-worked basis for decision-making. In the following, let me explain the crime of aggression and explain the process that we have set in motion here at home. When the ICC Statute was adopted in 1998, several people advocated that the ICC should also be able to prosecute aggression, i.e. particularly serious violations of the prohibition of the use of force. There was no agreement on this, and the ICC could therefore, in the first place, only tackle the crimes we know from, among other things. Yugoslavia tribunalet and Rwanda tribunalet, i.e. genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity. The Aggression Crime is mentioned in the ICC Statute as a fourth crime, but it required further work among the ICC countries. In the 00s then started a negotiation process among the ICC countries, and this resulted in 2010 in Kampala in adopting a definition of the aggression crime and associated jurisdiction rules. These were difficult negotiations in which, in particular, the permanent members of the Security Council advocated that cases of aggression crimes should only be started if the Security Council had given the green light. The argument was that the UN Charter gives the Security Council the primary responsibility for international peace and security and that that task could be made more difficult if the ICC suddenly entered from the right in a matter on the Council's agenda. Other countries disagreed and did not want such restrictions. On the Danish side, there was a great deal of focus on ensuring a consensus adoption. In 2010, the ICC was a young institution with limited global support and many difficult cases, especially in Africa. There was no need for a political crisis about the aggression crime. The compromise in Kampala did not end with the Security Council's control over the ICC's aggression crime, but with the full exception of non-ICC countries from the jurisdiction of the ICC. So if a country that is not a member of the ICC attacks an ICC country, the ICC does not have jurisdiction over the act of aggression. It's different from other ICC crimes. This is perhaps not very satisfactory for most ICC countries, but probably necessary for us to reach a compromise in Kampala. Another part of the compromise was a relatively high threshold for what constitutes an aggression crime, that is to say, the use of force, which constitutes a blatant violation of the prohibition of the use of force. It is a threshold that the government considers appropriate because we know that there may be disagreement on the interpretation of the UN Charter rules. The aggression crime therefore covers clear cases of aggression, such as Iraq's invasion of Kuwait in 1990, but not cases in grey areas where there may be different reasonable interpretations of the extent of the ban on the use of force. For example, humanitarian interventions must be presumed to be excluded as an area in which there are different legal concepts. It was also decided in Kampala that a new decision should be taken after 1 January 2017, with the support of at least two thirds of the ICC countries, so that the ICC can actually exercise jurisdiction over the aggression crime. This implementation decision is expected to be taken in New York in December 2017. A process has been set up under the auspices of the ICC in which Austria is to lead the consultations of the ICC countries and thus prepare the decision. On the Danish side, we are following this work closely, also to see whether some countries want substantive changes to the Kampala compromise, or whether it will be a relatively simple decision to implement the 2010 decision. We are following which other like-minded countries have ratified or intend to ratify it, and we are particularly following those countries that have the same security profile as Denmark. There is a difference between ratifying the aggression crime, whether you are San Marino or Denmark. I note that countries such as Germany, the Netherlands, Poland, Spain and the Czech Republic have ratified, while countries such as the U.K., France, Australia and Canada have not yet done so. In addition to following international developments in the case, we have also set up an inter-ministerial working group consisting of the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This working group holds out a statement to describe the approach of other countries and the expected decision in December 2017 and to explain whether ratification requires changes to Danish law. Are we going to have a Danish penal code on aggression? If so, should it be in the penal code or in a special law? What degree of jurisdiction should Danish courts have jurisdiction over acts on Danish territory only, or even if an aggression criminal enters Danish territory without having any connection with Denmark? Here, too, it is interesting to look at the other countries that have ratified and see how they have resolved such issues of national implementation. Some might have wanted the government to have acted more quickly in this matter. Personally, I believe that with Denmark's security policy profile, it is important that we have the best possible basis for assessing Danish ratification, while safeguarding Denmark's strong and consistent support for the ICC. Overall, therefore, it is my view that we are in a good position to clarify the basis for possible Danish ratification. It is not a decision that we must force; it is a decision that requires a proper and fair identification of the concerns involved and the specific needs of the possible domestic implementation of a decision on ratification. In the spring, hopefully, we will have a more complete picture so that a government decision can be taken as to whether we should proceed with obtaining consent here in the Things for ratification. I am pleased that the five parties that have tabled the proposal have been as clear as they have, giving a good picture of the Parliament's position in the further work of the working group towards ratification. One final comment is that, in addition to aggression, the Kampala changes contain a minor addition of certain types of war crimes, which are now also punishable in internal armed conflicts: their ratification is also part of the inter-ministerial working group's report and is expected to be dealt with together with the aggression crime. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324165457	You're welcome. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324165501	Thank you to the Secretary of State. We don't need to rush, he says. No, but we've had this case since 2010, so you can't say it's a force when we get to it now. But don't worry about it. I am, in fact, pleased that there is such a positive indication that the government is going to get on with this. I also respect the fact that there are some technical difficulties in this, including how criminal law is to be implemented here in Denmark in Danish criminal law, etc. Yeah, I get that. One could now vote in favour of this proposal with a remark that it should then be dealt with afterwards, but bad thing about it. What I just wanted to be sure of is whether we can count on the government and the governing parties to contribute to some kind of report from the Committee on Foreign Affairs, where we will, as it were, confirm it and acknowledge that this process is going to get under way, and then we will have some sort of procedure described how the Folketing can get involved in any considerations that the government might have.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324165605	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324165607	You can always discuss when this should have happened and how much you should have pushed it along the way. Sir. Holger K. Nielsen has also been responsible as Foreign Minister during this period, so there are many of us who share responsibility. One might say that I share the smallest part of the responsibility, almost, but not quite, because I have, after all, overtaken Mr. Holger K. Nielsen in seniority in relation to being Minister of Foreign Affairs. However, let us just agree that the starting point is a common positive approach to getting this right, taking into account, of course, that we are actually sure of the criminal consequences it has in relation to our own legislation. I am very open to looking at how we can also get this written in the course of the treatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324165655	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324165656	It is quite true that many people are responsible for the fact that nothing has happened in this matter. When I became aware of this in the autumn, it surprised me too, for we were in Kampala and were behind it there. I have not realized yet why nothing has happened whether the matter has just been forgotten or whether there are other reasons for it. Perhaps we can find out on occasion. However, I fully agree that it is certainly not only the current Foreign Minister who is responsible for the fact that it has gone so far over time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324165734	The next one is sir. Nick Hækkerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324165739	Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the positive comments, I understand. In any case, it was expressed as a common positive position and, as I understood the Minister for Foreign Affairs in his speech, the basis must be clarified in a government decision this spring. Should this be understood so literally, so that the Foreign Minister can say that the government will have taken a position before we enter June?
ParlaMint-DK_20170324165811	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324165815	It should be understood in this way that we are aware that there is this resolution and is waiting in December 2017, and there, as I see it, we should like to get things in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324165827	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324165830	So, in other words, I think that, according to what has been said, good and constructive proposals, such as Mr Beazley's report, are good and constructive. Holger K. Nielsen joined us, for example. I think it would be a good idea for us to draw up a joint committee report in which we indicated that this was expected to be settled by the end of this year.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324165849	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324165851	I have no intention of stalling this. We have set in motion a process to ensure that this is done in the right way, but let us return to it in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324165901	Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324165904	Thank you. Now I haven't been Foreign Minister yet, but that's why it's very good to understand how things are, because I saw this, and then I thought, "Oh, my God, why are we no longer in relation to ratification?" I then understood that there must be an analysis work in relation to the criminal consequences, and then I am really just curious. Is it only something that is being set in motion here and now by our current Foreign Minister, or is it something that has been going on since 2012, when the first countries are ratifying this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170324165938	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324165940	I can't tell you right now. I doubt that this is something that has just suddenly been set in motion here under my leadership, but I will not actually be able to answer a hundred per cent from up here from the platform, but I would like to reply to it in a written reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324165951	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324165953	Thank you. That is mere curiosity, so I do not think the Minister needs to start his ministry replying in writing. I'll survive that. But also thanks for the fact that, in any case, the process is being speeded up now, for which we have had seven more years. So it is good that we can also be ashore with it before the meeting in New York where we have to take a position on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324170017	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324170018	Thank you. As I said in my speech, the aim is for us to respond to Mr. I hope that Nick Hækkerup will have the complete picture so that a government decision can be taken on whether and how we should proceed to obtain consent in this Chamber for ratification. So I look forward to it. And again, I would like to thank you for the initiative and also for the fact that we are getting the light on the matter again.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324170045	Sir. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324170050	The Minister for Foreign Affairs managed to get ahead of me after I had pressed my mind, but I will ask the question anyway. Is there any information in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' archives to illustrate why the ratification process was not initiated while Mr. Holger K. Nielsen was Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-DK_20170324170107	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324170109	I haven't gotten to know that before I got up on this platform. But if I remember my 50 first days right, it was busy, and I'm sure Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, because there's a lot you need to get yourself into.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324170125	Fine. Thank you, Minister. We shall now proceed to the rapporteurs, and the first rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Nick Hækkerup of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324170134	Now we almost fell into such a proper procedure of how we can bring the matter forward, and that is, of course, fine. But I think there is reason to think that, at the request of the former Foreign Minister, Holger K. Nielsen, we have put the matter on the agenda, just to look at what the content of the motion for a resolution is. In essence, then, is it quite simple, namely to answer the following questions: should the International Criminal Court be able to prosecute political and military leaders responsible for an illegal war? Should the use of chemical weapons and dummy bullets also be subject to jurisdiction in internal conflicts? If you can answer yes to the two questions, then you have to vote in favour of the resolution as it stands. If you want to lift it a little, you can say: should Denmark insist that we have a world society that stands on the law and the law and not on the right of the strongest or the most brutal? This is an interesting question, moreover, at a time when precisely the free, liberal world order, which was created by the U.S. if any and enforced by the Western world, is being called into question by the very same United States. Finally, one might also say: Should Denmark stick to the fact that peace and justice among other things. is achieved by making those responsible for abuses and crimes accountable and genuine peace and reconciliation achieved when the victims are given justice? If you can say yes to that, then you have to support the motion for a resolution. Indeed, we did so, as was pointed out earlier in a question, in 2010, when we supported the amendment of the Statute of the International Criminal Court, so that it also included military aggression. Now is just the time to ratify the changes so that they can also enter into force. It was also pointed out before that a number of other countries have ratified the Kampala amendments, as the Foreign Minister said here from the platform, and many others are in the process of ratifying them. We must bear this in mind, because competence will not come into force until at least 30 countries have ratified, while at the same time two thirds of the ICC's Member States. So it is actually important for Denmark to ratify the Kampala amendments. One might then wonder, as we have already been a little bit aware, that this has not happened, not least because of the ongoing commitment we have to the International Criminal Court. This motion for a resolution obliges the government to ratify it. I am glad that the government says that this is being welcomed. There are a number of technical points that need to be clarified, but I really think the truth is that the proposal has gone somewhere and that everyone thinks that this is very sensible and that we should do so. I can see that, sir. Søren Espersen sends me a look which means that he is not sure that he thinks we all agree when he has been on the platform, but then let me say that most of us now have reason to believe that what has happened has been so many cuts in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and there has been a lot in the way that it has been put forward, but now has been reinstated by the former Foreign Minister Holger K. Nielsen, who brings it forward here and says: Should we not get it done? I think that's really the truth about this. Then the Minister for Foreign Affairs gets caught up in his system and sometimes it is possible to do so, and I myself have experienced this and then the system suddenly has a lot of system explanations as to why we should not finally vote in favour of an otherwise sensible proposal. And when you are a new minister, you can get a little caught up in it and forget to say: listen, I am the minister; that is, I would like us to ratify this; that is politics, I would like that. And then you get caught up in explanations that there must also be some changes to the criminal code or that there is something else that is horrible if we make such a political decision: it is too dangerous, sir. Minister. And then you get to listen to your system and then it goes as it goes today; then there is not the majority that really exists to do what we all do except Mr. Søren Espersen well knows is the right thing to do. That is where we cannot go, and that is why I think it is good if we can get there, that we say that we do not take the second reading of the proposal, but now we are making a report in committee, together with the governing parties, which sets this process in motion with the clear objective that when it comes to taking a position in New York, Denmark is ready to take its share of responsibility. And then I end on the second.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324170654	Thank you, sir. Nick Hækkerup. No one allowed himself to be challenged by the rapporteur's speech, so we move on to Mr. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324170709	Thank you. And I thank you for the debate that we have started with now. It is, of course, at the heart of what international forum will in future deal with and impose wars between the countries of the International Criminal Court or the UN Security Council. I would first like to agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that the establishment of the ICC almost 20 years ago was a good decision, in other words an international criminal court which could stand by the fact that war crimes, genocide and crimes against humanity could be punished and that the victims and relatives could have a hope that justice would one day be done. But it was never intended that the ICC would somehow replace the United Nations Security Council as the forum where wars between states would be condemned, so that a so-called illegal war could lead to the prosecution of a state under the auspices of the ICC. And I understand that the government is not particularly interested in rushing into the range of legal and state problems that would arise if it decided to join the Kampala amendments. I do not think it would be wise for the government to move in this direction, not only because of the legal aspects but also because it would help to deprive the UN Security Council of its responsibility for international peace and security. It is certainly for the same reason that countries like Britain, France, Australia and Canada have also rejected the idea. The United Nations Security Council, with these five permanent members with the right of veto, is, in our view, the safe and secure institution in which we should continue to rely when states of war arise. And there have been situations in which I admit that one might have hoped that the Security Council would have responded, but the fact that the five decisive powers of the globe must reach agreement means, in return, that the decisions of the Security Council, when they are given, will immediately acquire international legal status. In our view, such a strong international confidence will probably not be achieved by the ICC. Just the idea that the ICC will be able to incarcerate and prosecute a warring state in the same way as it is today in relation to individuals who are, after all, equipped with the rights of a sign and, according to all legal rules, confronted with persons who have witnessed any war crimes, I find a rather impossible idea. And who, by the way, was to be called as a witness against the warring leader of the State? Yes, it must then be the other warring state's head of government if it is to be done properly. It sounds beautiful, but the idea is impossible unless the two states agree on it, which has sometimes happened in the course of history, but not when it comes to warfare. That is why we believe that when it comes to warring wars between states, we should leave the matter to a well-worked, well-established, respected institution, such as the UN Security Council. With all the flaws and shortcomings that the Security Council undoubtedly has, the decisions taken by the Council are recognised by virtually all the countries of the world as being international law. It is with these reasons that the Danish People's Party rejects the motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324171101	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Nick Hækkerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324171104	It is, of course, true, unfortunately, that some of what is also part of this is that it is a real political reality that if you give the court these powers, you run the risk of being accused of being political. But would the rapporteur not agree with me that, in the design that has been made, some safety valves have been installed which make the Security Council have a significant influence on whether cases are brought before the Court?
ParlaMint-DK_20170324171137	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324171139	If the Socialist rapporteur thinks that it was then the Security Council that should take the initiative to bring the matter before the Court, there would surely be an opportunity for that to happen. But I still think it is only realistic to the extent that both the opposing parties agree on this. Of course, this is the case in many civil matters. We ourselves, by the way, have had such a case before the international court around Greenland in 1933, where the two States involved agreed on it. Then it's easy, and then you can do it. But it is hard to imagine that both sides in a war, in warring countries or after a war will share in saying to an international court: we accept the outcome that may come. I find that difficult to imagine, whether or not it has come up with a resolution from the United Nations Security Council.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324171244	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324171245	But I do recognize the problem, in other words, that there is a real political reality and that some countries are playing a bigger and heavier role than other countries. I just think that with the formulation that has been made and the way in which competence looks, a number of options have been included, for example. Because, as the rapporteur also says, the Security Council can assign cases to the court... that is probably the least problem... but also that the Security Council can postpone the investigation that is taking place. In this way, I think that the reality of real policy has also been taken into account.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324171321	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324171323	Well, I'll give you that. That is also what the government's proposal for today, and also the Foreign Minister's speech, says that there are things in this respect that need to be clarified. We are not in that respect now about the legal aspects. So I wouldn't say it's an impossibility. I just think that, in the light of what we know now, it will be special. But it's gonna be interesting to see what's coming from the government. I understand that it must be fairly fast in the course of the autumn. We will then be open to look at what it is. But as it is, I think it seems like an impossible thing. May I add that, to the extent that the Security Council has decided to assign something to the Court, the Security Council has already agreed, in particular the five permanent members. There they can set out in themselves the decisions they want, which will then be accepted as international law, in which case you will not need a long trial, where it will be difficult to obtain regular witnesses and thus have proper legal proceedings.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324171427	Thank you, sir. Søren Espersen. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jan E. Jørgensen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324171439	The proposers write in their comments on the proposal that Denmark has always given high priority to efforts towards an international legal order and that Denmark has actively supported the establishment and work of the International Criminal Court, the ICC. Let me just make it quite clear: we are very much in agreement, and the Left and the government are also very aware that Denmark must give priority to this work in the future. In other words, we must continue to crack down on war crimes, which is why the International Criminal Court, the ICC, must, of course, also have the right mandate to deal with such serious cases. The changes agreed in Kampala, Uganda's capital, in 2010 concern aggression crimes, i.e. particularly serious violations of the ban on the use of force, as well as chemical weapons and dummy bullets being characterised as war crimes and falling within the competence of the ICC, also in internal conflicts. I do not know whether or not we can say quickly, but at least a little too quickly about this proposal. Because in the Left, of course, we also very much want Denmark, like a number of other countries, to ratify the Kampala amendments, but it must be done properly and on a sufficiently enlightened basis. Therefore, the government has set up an interministerial working group under the auspices of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Defence, and they will then study other countries' approach to ratifying the Kampala amendments and explain whether Danish ratification requires changes in Danish law. Against this background, therefore, the Left is awaiting the report of the working party, which is why we cannot support the proposal at this stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324171627	Sir. Nick Hækkerup, a brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324171629	Thank you for those comments. I am listening to the positive comments that have been made so far in the debate, and I am sure that the Left will be able to see whether we can make a report in committee which points to the need to move forward along this road and hopefully says that we should be able to take an active stand on this when the next step is taken in New York in December. I would just like to know whether the rapporteur, on behalf of the Left, will be able to make a positive contribution to seeking such a formulation in a committee report.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324171720	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324171722	I can't promise that, but that's something we need to discuss in more detail. I'm not going to deny it either.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324171730	There are no more brief comments, so we thank Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen. Then I'll tell you that Mr. Christian Juhl has informed the President that he is prevented because of a task, but that Enhedslisten can support the motion No. B 50 on the ratification of aggression crimes. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324171800	In 1998, 120 countries decided at a conference in Rome to set up the International Criminal Court. The purpose was to judge in cases of genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity. It was also agreed that the Court should come into force when 60 countries had ratified the Rome Statute, as it says, and this happened in 2002. Since 1998, there has been a broad consensus in the Danish Parliament that the ICC was a very important matter, and when the Danish Parliament is broadly in agreement on something, it is, by its very nature, the work and approach of different governments, and it has also influenced the government now. Nevertheless, the fact is that nothing has really happened to the Kampala Declaration until about a year ago under the then government, which set up an inter-ministerial working group from the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Why would they do that? Well, that's because you had to make a whole lot of compromises. How should we deal with the Security Council, which is not linked to the issue of aggression crimes? How would you deal with jurisdiction in this way? What is one's attitude to what is the threshold for an aggression crime? After all, the UN has also established that states have the responsibility to protect if it is possible to prevent a situation such as this. The one in Rwanda. It is not, of course, acceptable that we should first meet that obligation and then have some sort of risk in relation to the issue of aggression crimes. It was then decided that from 1 January 2017 a new decision should be made with the support of at least two thirds of the ICC countries in order for the ICC to expand its jurisdiction. This is actually enough for me to say that instead of voting in favour of the motion for a resolution, it is therefore a good idea to allow this working group which could of course have been set up during the period when it was the parties behind the proposers who had the power of government, but we leave that to be done before the government decides to ratify. In other words, hurry is a burden, and that is why the Liberal Alliance cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324172043	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl. There are no brief comments, so we will move on to the next rapporteur, Mr President. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324172052	Thank you. I'll be brief. Well, I think that we can only take it seriously that something has been decided internationally many years ago, something that we usually support because it strengthens the international legal order. You haven't moved on that yet. And I have to say, I was just happy when I was contacted by Mr. Holger K. Nielsen on this, because of course we have to get this ratified. And we cannot call it haste when we can see how many countries could ratify it in 2012 and when we can see that, as far as I remember, there are 17 other EU countries that have ratified it, of course we can also move forward. That is why I am pleased with the positive tone of the Foreign Minister that we are already in the process and are going to push harder because we are actually a little busy now. It is not hurry to say that we must be ready by autumn when it has to be taken up again. So it should be a good idea to have ratified; so it is nice.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324172159	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we shall move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left. He's not here. Then it's mr. Naser Khader of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324172221	We have a moral obligation to contribute to a global legal order. The ICC deserves our support in this regard. I am in favour of the war criminal courts prosecuting people who commit war crimes against their own civilian population, especially at a time when the UN Security Council is so impotent that those responsible for some of the war crimes currently taking place cannot be prosecuted, for example in Syria, by the Assad regime. So for me, the ICC is a dot in the activist foreign policy that I think Denmark should lead. However, as the Foreign Minister explained in his speech, we do not yet have the full basis necessary for us to be able to state that we are ratifying the Kampala amendments. A process has been initiated, and we are following and awaiting the process and decision of the ICC at the end of 2017, to see if there are substantive changes to the Kampala changes. However, this does not interfere with the fact that we also want to be able to prosecute in the long term particularly serious violations of the prohibition of force. We await the process initiated by the Foreign Minister in his speech and therefore the Conservative People's Party cannot support this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324172356	Thank you. Finally, Mr President, it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324172415	I'm gonna stop stalling for this big mass assembly on Friday afternoon, but thank you for the debate. I think it is positive that the government has started work on preparing for ratification of the Kampala amendments. You can discuss why it hasn't happened before. I can say that I cannot answer that either. But maybe it's because, as it can often happen, it's not necessarily the story of it either, I don't know that you're at a conference somewhere, you sign a communiqué, and then other things happen in the ministry, among the parties that become choices and things like that, and then it's just going to lie down. I don't know. However, as I said, I became somewhat randomly aware of this just before Christmas, when I realised that I had not followed the debate closely since 2010, that a number of other such like-minded countries as the Netherlands, Germany, Sweden and also, as far as I remember, Spain had ratified the Kampala amendments, whereas Denmark did not. It kind of puzzled me. But I also realised that this is actually a very important thing, both for a number of other countries within the ICC and also for a number of African countries. I think that at this point in time, the ICC is something challenged by the cohesion force. It is indeed the case that various countries have threatened to resign and that a country like Russia that has been halfway along has not been fully involved, but, at least, this is something that has been completely withdrawn. That's why it's challenged. The African Union has a major debate about whether to resign. It is challenged, and that is why I think it is important that we at least report positively to these amendments to the ICC statutes. It is true that there was a major debate in 2010. Sir. Henrik Dahl talked about some compromises that had to be made, but they were made in 2010 at the Kampala Conference • That's where these compromises were made. That is where the threshold was laid for the study and so on, which meant that there was agreement during the debate at the Kampala Conference. On that basis, a number of countries started ratifying these amendments, and that is what we hope to be able to complete from the Danish side after today's debate. Sir. Søren Espersen mentions a number of difficulties in this. It is quite true that it is not as simple as that. That is absolutely right, it is not. And that reflects the debate in Kampala in 2010 too, and indeed the debate in Rome when it started in 1998. That is absolutely correct, and it is certainly not easy to get deep political affairs into legal issues, certainly not, because that is what is happening here. But I think it is important anyway, and it has also been the Danish policy. The fact that you have a criminal court that can agree to punish for war crimes will, of course, create justice in some cases not always because it is difficult, but justice can be created, but equally important, also have a preventive effect. It is always important if some dictator, some butcher, some bandit is considering some form of aggression, and he knows that there is an opportunity for one to be brought before the criminal court, while at the same time there is an opportunity for the criminal court itself to start exploring cases. There is simply a capacity to investigate whether there is a possibility of raising a case. It is also extremely unpleasant for political leaders, heads of state, top politicians who would like to be decent people in the eyes of the outside world, in other words, to be subjected to a criminal investigation, as is possible. So I am quite sure that although one can discuss the threshold, which in many people's opinion was too high there in Kampala, I agree with that, it is nevertheless important that this is ratified. And I think it actually has an effect because it can dampen the huts of some of the worst crooks that we are dealing with internationally. So thank you for the debate. I hope we can make a report so that the Folketing will be involved in the further work on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324172929	Thank you, sir. Holger K. Nielsen. No one else has asked to speak, and the debate is therefore over. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170324172943	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting, apart from thanking everyone for their efforts in the service of the people's government. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 28 March 2017, at 3 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
