ParlaMint-DK_20171128130035	The meeting is open. The Committee on Legal Affairs has delivered: Report and recommendation on the Parliamentary Ombudsman's report for 2016. 37). The report and recommendation will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk. Today there are the following reviews: Josephine Fock (ALT), Rune Lund (EL) and Marianne Jelved (RV): Motion for a resolution No. B 38 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on stricter legislation and better action against psychological violence). Søren Søndergaard (EL) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 39 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the prohibition of toxic substances in ink). Eva Flyvholm (EL), Josephine Fock (ALT) and Holger K. Nielsen (SF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 40 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution to withdraw Act 31 of 16 November 2017 on the purchase of new fighter aircraft from the Finance Committee). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20171128130154	The item listed as No. 16 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House, and if no one objects, I consider the consent given. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128130208	Ulla Sandbæk (ALT) has applied for leave from 28 November 2017, cf. Paragraph 41 of the Rules of Procedure. Point 3 (a), while Pernille Skipper (EL) has applied for leave from 30 November 2017 and Merete Dea Larsen (DF) has applied for leave from 1 December 2017, both cf. Paragraph 41 of the Rules of Procedure. 4. If there is no objection, I shall consider it agreed that leave should be granted as applied for and that substitutes should be called as temporary members. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128130304	From the Committee on the Verification of Credentials, I have received the recommendation that the First Deputy of the Alternative in Copenhagen Omregns Storkreds, Anders Stjernholm, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing from 28 November 2017 on the occasion of Ulla Sandbæk's leave. I have also received the recommendation that the First Deputy of Enhedslisten in Fyns Storkreds, Jesper Kiel, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing from 30 November 2017 on the occasion of Pernille Skipper's leave. Finally, I have received the recommendation that the first deputy of the Danish People's Party in Sjællands Storkreds, Per Nørhave, be approved as a temporary member of the Danish Parliament from 1 December 2017 on the occasion of Merete Dea Larsen's leave. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128130405	The committee's recommendation shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. The Committee's recommendation was adopted unanimously by 109 votes.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128130441	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 4 by Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl (DF), Carl Holst (V), Villum Christensen (LA) and Anders Johansson (KF), and voting is possible. The vote is over. In favour 55 (DF, V, LA and KF) voted against 52 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), [no votes for or against 0]. Proposal for adoption No V 4 has been adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 3 of Stine Brix (EL), Magnus Heunicke (S), Torsten Gejl (ALT), Marianne Jelved (RV) and Kirsten Normann Andersen (SF) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128130557	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128130615	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 109 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) [on the other hand, 0 abstained]. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128130641	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128130707	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 74 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), against 14 (EL and ALT), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128130742	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128130754	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128130821	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128130837	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 98 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), against 9 (EL), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128130907	It's gotta be a little quieter when you walk out of the hall. Hey! I'm gonna need a little more quiet. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128131011	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-6, member of the Committee? They are adopted. I still have to ask for more silence in the Chamber. The vote will therefore be taken even if you do not just press the button. These are serious matters we are dealing with. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128131037	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128131107	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128131121	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128131152	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128131244	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128131246	The Minister for Industry has informed me that he wishes to accept Amendment No. Seven and eight left. Does anyone wish to accept the amendments? They're gone. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 by a minority (EL), joined by a majority (the other committee) that the bill is divided into two legislative proposals? The division of the bill into two legislative proposals has been adopted. The draft law referred to in A shall be put to the vote first. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2-4 of a minority (EL), elected by a majority (the other committee), or on Amendment No 2. 9 outside the report by the Minister for Industry? They are adopted. The draft law referred to in B shall then be put to the vote. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 5 and 6 of a minority (EL), elected by a majority (other committees)? They are adopted. I propose that the legislative proposals go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128131356	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128131421	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-31, member of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128131437	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. And if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128131508	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. And if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128131537	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128131557	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) 2 by a minority (EL), elected by a majority (S, DF, ALT, RV and SF), or on Amendment No. 2 by a minority (EL), or by a majority (S, DF, ALT, RV and SF) or on Amendment No. 2 by a majority (S, DF, ALT, RV and SF). 3-7, elected by the Committee? They are adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128131626	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128131701	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128131733	It is Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten, who wishes to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128131756	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Enhedslisten, we also support these amendments, but I would just like to add that in general we want to extend the possibility of taking training on daily allowances and also the possibility of obtaining supplementary daily allowances in connection with training. In this case, however, we can support the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128131816	Thank you. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128131823	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-4, member of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128131838	The debate is open. Mrs Karin Gaardsted, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128131857	Thank you very much. It is such a rather unusual situation to stand here today and have to talk about a legislative proposal that has been put forward to prevent another law from coming to work. That is actually the way it is. The aim of the bill is to maintain the monopoly on online bingo and horse and dog betting in Greenland until Greenland's autonomy has had the opportunity to decide whether the autonomy wishes the games to be liberalised. On 1 January, in a month or so, the liberalisation of the supply of online bingo and betting on horse and dog races and betting on racing with carrier pigeons in Denmark will enter into force. Without this bill, which we have before us today, liberalisation would also apply to Greenland, and we do not want that to happen. Of course, we want Greenland to take a stand on this problem itself. A commitment has been made by the Naala Suisut that they currently want the current state of law to be continued. Of course we support this on the part of the Social Democrats, and I should like to welcome the Radicals and say that they do.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128132013	Thank you. Then it's mr. Henrik Brodersen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128132021	Thank you, Madam President. The government, together with the Danish People's Party, the Social Democratic Party, the Radical Left and the Socialist People's Party, has signed an agreement in January 2017 to liberalise the offer of online bingo, betting on horses, dogs and even hijacking with carrier pigeons. This liberalisation will enter into force for Denmark here on 1 January 2018 and will, according to the system of gambling legislation in Greenland, also result in changes up there. Greenland's Self-Government has not had the opportunity to decide before 1 January 2018 whether the self-government wants this liberalisation. The Minister of Taxation proposes with this bill that the offer of the games mentioned in Greenland be maintained as before, until Greenland's Self-Government has had the opportunity to decide whether the self-government wishes the games to be liberalised. I think we should give them time to decide on this and therefore the Danish People's Party can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128132121	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Marcus Knuth, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128132128	Adopting this bill means the status quo, so that online bingo, horse and dog racing and not forgetting dove racing is maintained in a monopoly offered by Danske Game until the autonomy has had the opportunity to take a position on liberalisation. As I understand it, this is due to the fact that Greenland's Self-Government will not be able to carry out a decision-making process before these game areas from 1 January 2018 will be included in the forthcoming liberalisation that we have previously adopted here in the Danish Parliament. Greenland itself must, of course, have time to decide whether liberalisation should take place in line with the Danish one. Having said that, of course we in the Left do not hide the fact that we hope politically that the monopoly on these games will also be broken. We are of the fundamental view that free and liberal supply should always be above monopolies. However, as I have said, it is of course also a question of respecting Greenland's self-government and giving Greenland the opportunity to take a position on liberalisation itself, and that is why we support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128132232	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128132238	Thank you. We support the Greenlanders' free right to decide for themselves whether they want to create gambling people in Greenland, and in that case how they do it. I cannot imagine that there are quite a lot of horse or dog races in Greenland or racing with carrier pigeons, so I wonder if this proposal is clear. At any rate, I think it is important that we do not decide anything over the head of the Greenland Parliament. Of course, it is the Greenlanders who have to decide how these things are going to work. And in this situation, I do not have a position on liberalisation or the opposite in this area. I have only the principle that if we can give the Greenlanders the opportunity to decide more, we will do so, and that is why we support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128132331	Thank you. Sir. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128132336	Thank you. At first glance, the bill we are discussing here seems rather outramatic. Even Enhedslisten does not want to take a position on liberalisation on this front. So it seems to be completely outramatic. However, in Greenland, as we have also heard previous rapporteurs say, it is only in the spring that we will have to adopt a position on a draft law on the liberalisation of online bingo and horse racing in exactly the same way as we in Denmark have taken a position on it. In the Liberal Alliance, of course, we hope that Greenland will also want to liberalise legislation without any interference in it. We therefore support the draft law, even if it actually means maintaining the gambling monopoly in Greenland at present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128132434	Thank you. Sir. Nikolaj Amstrup, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128132441	Thank you very much. As has been said by several other rapporteurs, the proposal is merely about maintaining the current legal situation in relation to the tender procedure for certain types of gambling, and I can hear that there is a lot of emphasis on it with a letter pigeon flight until the self-government has the opportunity to decide whether or not they want to liberalise it, and we naturally support the right of the Greenlanders to
ParlaMint-DK_20171128132506	Thank you. The Radical Left is covered. Sir. Karsten Hønge is not present. Sir. Anders Johansson, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128132527	Thank you. The aim of the bill, as several rapporteurs have already mentioned, is that online bingo and horse and dog racing in Greenland should be maintained as a monopoly game by Danske Games until Greenland's self-government itself has had the opportunity to decide whether the autonomy wants the games to be liberalised, just as they have been in Denmark. Of course, we in the Conservative People's Party can support this, so we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128132556	Thank you. Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, IA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128132603	Thank you very much. Inuit Ataqatigiit in the Danish Parliament has read the bill with interest. We note that the Danish Parliament has to deal with the bill before it is dealt with in Inatsisartut, Greenland's parliament, and we are fundamentally critical of the reverse order, as we believe that the self-government law should be followed. The purpose of this bill is to allow Inatsisartut to decide whether to abolish the monopoly on the supply of online bingo, betting on horse and dog racing and betting on racing with carrier pigeons. This is to be considered in Inatsisartut during the spring session 2018. It is regrettable that Inatsisartut has not had the opportunity to take a position on it in the past, but we also note that Inatsisartut has authorised the Government of Greenland to make an acknowledgment to the Government. This is done as part of Greenland's 2018 Finance Act, which has been approved by a majority in Inatsisartut last week. It is a question of authorising the Government of the Netherlands to indicate to the Danish Government that the current monopoly in the various areas I mentioned earlier is intended to continue until further notice. If this does not happen with this bill by the end of the year, existing legislation from Denmark will apply, which is not appropriate when it has not been discussed yet in Inatsisartut. Naalakkersuisut will thus present a bill for discussion in Inatsisartut at the spring session in 2018, where Inatsisartut will take a position on Greenland's official position on the matter forward. With these comments, we approve the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128132754	Thank you. Mrs. Aleqa Hammond, UFG. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128132804	Now Greenland has their very different kind of dog racing, which you cannot compare with anything that is down here, but we have our own dog sled races, which we also care a lot about. But that is a completely different matter. As my colleague from Greenland said, it is the case that we consider it extremely important in relation to the legislative proposals submitted to Parliament and relating to Greenland that Inatsisartut should first submit their own report to a given legislative proposal. In this context, however, Naalaksuisut, the Greenland Government, has not had enough time to submit the bill to Inatsisartut in good time, so it has not been possible for Mr Inatsisartut to deal with the proposal. This means that Inatsisartut has not authorised Naalakkersuisut to present their official position on the bill to the government here in Denmark, and they say that in connection with the spring session 2018, Inatsisartut will present their opinion on the bill itself. Having said that, I also think it is incredibly important that the committee responsible for dealing with the legislative proposal should also draw their attention to the consequences of this, since Greenland has not yet come up with its own official position. Otherwise, as is now before us and as Mr Inatsisartut says, I support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128132939	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the tax minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128132943	Thank you. As most rapporteurs have mentioned, the proposal is to maintain the current legal status in the field of gambling in Greenland, and with this bill we retain the monopoly on the supply of online bingo, horse and dog racing. As several rapporteurs have said, it may not be that, in other words, horse and dog racing and other things that fill the most, there are other activities that fill more in Greenland. But it is important for the government to make room for Greenland's Self-Government to decide for itself whether the above-mentioned games should be liberalised, just as we have decided to do in Denmark. It is a small bill, and for once it is not as complicated as it may sometimes be in the field of the Treasury. Greenland's self-government agrees with the proposed amendment and I understand that there is also broad support for it in this Chamber, so I would like to thank you for the comments that have fallen from the rapporteurs and look forward to the further examination of the proposal by the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128133051	Thank you. No one has asked for short remarks, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Greenland Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128133105	The debate is open. Sir. Jesper Petersen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128133119	Thank you. The aim of the draft law here is to extend the company's right of deduction for wage costs, etc., incurred by companies in setting up or expanding the company. The extension of the company's right to deduct is based on two judgments of the Supreme Court, which established that, under the applicable law, the companies do not deduct the salaries of employees who have been engaged in the creation of new businesses or the expansion of existing businesses. That is why the law must be changed, since there is political support for the way I read it, at least that there must actually be the right of deduction which companies have also used in practice. In other words, it would affect the business community in different ways, both those who want to establish themselves in Denmark and those who want to expand their business in Denmark and elsewhere, if they did not deduct these wage costs. It has been pointed out by many different companies that it would be a major problem here if the Supreme Court ruling came out as it did, and we therefore believe that there is a need to make the legislative amendment that is now being proposed here. In fact, it has also been part of the idea of a growth reform that has been put forward by the Social Democratic Party and which has been proposed several times in the past by our party. So we have been pushing for a long time for this to happen, and I really think it is a pity that it should be so long before it could be made clear to companies that this is what the law should be for the future. But it is now. It is a priority for us to provide the best possible conditions for companies wishing either to establish themselves or to expand in this country. Against this background, the Social Democratic Party will vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128133302	Thank you. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128133308	The story behind this bill is that companies have been able to deduct wage costs in the past, regardless of whether it was to buy a company or it was to let its business grow organically, i.e. expand it. It actually worked quite well, and there were also some reasonable rules. Then it happens that SKAT chooses to change the practice. They choose to challenge the rules, and it ends up with a Supreme Court ruling which states that costs can no longer be deducted if it is the acquisition of a company. And this has meant that one had to split one's wage costs and find out how much one has actually spent just running the business and how much one has spent on, for example. buying up a business. It is not easy to deal with for a company, and that is why we think it is quite reasonable that this bill should come back to the old practice. Or to put it another way: we are now getting the situation that SKAT itself has created by challenging the rules, and that is quite right. We fully support this, because it must, of course, be the case that one gets a deduction for one's costs, whether one expands organically or one does it through a buy-in. I really think that what is interesting in this is not so much the legislative proposal, but more the principle of when the SKAT starts to challenge the legislation. Because that is fair enough if you think the legislation is unclear but do not know how to deal with it, but instead of going through the courts, there should probably be a practice in which you go through the tax minister, who can then assess whether it is clear enough in terms of legislation and whether it works as intended. And if it doesn't, then you can come up with a bill like this and take it in advance instead of creating a great insecurity in the business world. I really think it would be a good idea if we, as a Committee on Taxation, perhaps together with the Minister, were to discuss what it should be like when SKAT is going to challenge practice. Should you go to the courts, or should you go to a minister and ask for it to be changed? For this is a case that is quite clear, but it happens quite regularly that SKAT challenges current practices. I actually think we should try to see if we can handle this by going to our minister instead and then the minister can go to the Folketing. That would be much better. On the whole, however, we support the fact that we are now resolving the problems created by the SKAT itself. So the Danish People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128133531	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128133536	Thank you for the floor. As several others have said, what is at the root of this is that SKAT has changed its practice, and this has meant that companies have experienced that they have been taxed more heavily. And that is precisely against the wishes we have had to ensure good conditions for growth for Danish companies, good opportunities for them to develop and create growth for Denmark. So when the Supreme Court ruling fell and agreed that they must change the practice, then we had to change the law so that it is in line with what we think is right. That's what we're doing here. We take the law back to what has been practiced in the past, so that we can continue what we have done in the past, and do not create unnecessary administration and make it more expensive to be a company in Denmark. So this is supposed to make sure that being a company in Denmark doesn't get any worse. On the other hand, we want it to be better to be a company in Denmark. The Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128133634	Thank you. Sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128133649	The reason for this bill is, of course, that the Supreme Court has established in two judgments in principle that there is no legal basis for deducting wage costs when you either set up a company or expand your business. And the bill will put an end to this distinction between wage costs that can be deducted and wage costs that cannot be deducted. The draft law also states that it is also necessary to be able to deduct wage costs if we are merely looking at the possibility of, for example, reducing working hours. to expand its business. This means that the costs of simply exploring the terrain must also be deductible. Why is there even this distinction today? Yes, there is, of course, because expenditure can naturally be deducted only when there are comparable taxable income. And the reason why the Supreme Court has made this decision is precisely that the income generated by dividends and profit margins from companies formed when expanding the company, for example. by setting up a subsidiary which is jointly taxed with the parent company, after all it is tax-free. And, of course, because there must be symmetry in tax legislation, there can be no deduction for a taxable income which is not there. In addition, the draft law will also provide a corresponding deduction for board fees. The ambition of the draft law is clear; the comments state: "The intention is not only to extend the right of deduction in connection with the establishment and expansion of the company, but generally to extend the right of deduction in respect of commercial wage costs, etc., which are not considered as running costs but as capital costs, including for example: wage costs related to the purchase, sale and restructuring of the company. It is therefore because, in general terms, more deductions are to be granted to companies, and this is an honest matter. We in Enhedslisten just disagree. We do not think that, for the 127th time, a tax credit should be granted to companies, a tax credit, a rebate which amounts to almost 1⁄2 billion. kr. So both in relation to the substance, namely that it is now again a tax rebate, but also in relation to the purely tax-technical aspect, where we agree that there should be the distinction which the Supreme Court has also made in two judgments in principle, Enhedslisten cannot support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128133936	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Sir. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go. No, it's because there's the other name on the list. Actually, it said, "Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, but it's Mr. B. Olsen. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128133956	I am, of course, sorry that it has not been corrected in time. The reason for this bill is, of course, as previous rapporteurs from, among others. The Danish People's Party and the Left have explained very well, two Supreme Court judgments, which ruled that companies can no longer deduct wage costs for employees who work with the acquisition of companies, and this has naturally given rise to a great deal of furore and hernia on the part of the business community. Of course, it is also inappropriate and troublesome if companies are to sit and assess whether each employee's salary is deductible or not. The starting point should, of course, be that a company pays corporation tax on its profits, and the payrolls given to employees are therefore not part of the profits. Wage costs in a company which are used for the establishment of new operations or the extension of existing operations should be considered fully in line with the wage costs spent on ordinary operations, and therefore it is clear, of course, that the Liberal Alliance supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128134101	Thank you. Then it's mr. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128134107	On the overall level, we are very positive about the proposal in the alternative. It will be less bureaucratic to start up a business and it will also be cheaper. However, there is one side to the battle, and we need to find out in the committee's work whether this may give the larger companies an advantage over the smaller ones, which are a little biased, is something for which we can stand by. With the good things that are otherwise in the bill, it seems to be fine for us, so we are positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128134134	Thank you. Sir. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128134139	As I understand the draft law, it is intended to introduce a law that fits with what was actually thought there was law already at this time. The Supreme Court has apparently passed some judgments which mean that the deduction that companies could receive for start-up costs can no longer be granted because the law has apparently been interpreted in a different way than the government thought. Therefore, the aim of the draft law is to ensure that what the companies have believed is actually applicable. We in the Radical Left think this is a good idea. We think it is a good idea that it will be easy and also a little cheaper for companies to start up and expand, and that is why we can support the bill. We have also asked in the Treasury if there will be any revenue effects, so it costs money? With those words, we can support the bill in the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128134254	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128134303	From the SF's point of view, it is actually very sensible that wage costs for expansion and business start-ups should be deductible. It is very good that the Supreme Court has made two judgments, so it has become clear that what has happened so far has not actually been legal. But we are in favour of getting this amendment right. The big problem for us, and there I am in clear contrast to my radical colleague, is that I do not see that it is in any way free of charge. In other words, the comments on the draft law state that, after the run-down, it will cost 430 million. kr. a year. Then there are a number of examples of dynamic effects, etc. It is therefore by no means a passage in which we can see that it has no economic consequences at all; on the contrary, it is quite a lot of money. Besides that, the municipalities are gonna lose 70 million on this. It is also a slim money, and according to current practice, the municipalities are not going to be the DUT, i.e. they will not be compensated for that loss as a result of changes in the tax legislation, and therefore the tax minister should now listen to the tax minister. Because that's 430 million. kr. after rewinding; it is 70 million. kr. for municipalities; and it would be a minimal, minimal increase in corporate tax that is needed to ensure more reasonable legislation. So we would very much like to support the proposal for substantive reasons, but we cannot give a blank cheque of 1⁄2 billion. kr. a year. So we need to find a solution in relation to the funding of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128134509	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Anders Johansson.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128134514	Thank you. The purpose of the draft law is to amend the law on equations so that companies can again deduct the wage costs of employees working to expand the company's business, in the same way as if they had done work in the ordinary course of business. Of course, the Conservative People's Party can support this. This is a good bill, and of course we are in favour of making it more attractive to operate in Denmark in general, because when things are going well for the companies, then Denmark is doing well too. That is why, of course, we must always be wary of adjusting legislation when there are areas where it is inappropriate and even has incentives that point in the wrong direction. Then there have been some Supreme Court rulings against companies, which is why, of course, it is also quite natural that we are now looking at correcting this so that we can restore the practice that everyone thought was in force. In addition, of course, the draft law also has something about quite practical administrative burdens, which will be eased by avoiding the need to divide working time up in development and operation, and that is of course sensible. It is an administrative relief that makes it easier to develop its business areas in the company, contrary to what was proposed after the Supreme Court judgments. So, on that basis, we can back up the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128134631	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128134638	I would like to start by thanking you for receiving this proposal. Now my speech paper also says 'and the exciting debate', even though it is in what is called an edged parenthesis. We cannot say that it has been, but there has been an excellent political debate on the proposal, and I would like to repeat some of the comments made by the rapporteurs. In Denmark, we have a healthy and strong business environment that is important to safeguard. The government has a desire to make it easier to operate in Denmark, and we focus on ensuring companies more simple and manageable rules, although this is not always what comes out of political agreements. But that is because politics is about making compromises. We want to improve business conditions so that Danish companies can cope with the challenges and opportunities they face in a world that is increasingly changing. Better business conditions are also what we have created with the agreement that the government has made with the Danish People's Party and the Radicals on the basis of the government's business and entrepreneurial initiative. In relation to the draft law, I would say that when business points out that the rules in force cause unnecessary trouble and trouble, we take it seriously in the government. This bill is an example of that. As some rapporteurs have said, some judgments have been passed which have given rise to the draft law. Prior to the presentation, there has been a good process in which we have listened to the concerns and needs of the business community, and that is why the government already indicated in the spring that we were prepared to ensure corporate deductions for professional wage costs. Following the two judgments of the Supreme Court in principle of 30 June of this year on the deduction of wage costs by two banks, the Government is proposing, with this bill, to guarantee the right of companies to deduct their salaries from normal wage costs. It also gives companies the certainty of knowing what is applicable in this area. In future, companies will thus be free of the task and the considerable administrative burden of dividing employees' wage costs into a deductible part and a non-deductible part, depending on what employees have been dealing with in the company. Before these cases were raised by SKAT many years ago and with what has been and is the case-law and applicable legal status until this bill is adopted, it is the case that if you grow your business through organic growth, then you have deducted the cost of organic growth, but if you do it through acquisitions, then you do not have deductions. It is a little difficult and at least a little old-fashioned in the world we find ourselves in to distinguish between whether a company grows through organic growth or through acquisitions. Therefore, it does not make much sense to accept the legal position that is in force today. If it were accepted, there would be approx. 500 million kr. more in the treasury. This would amount to a de facto increase in the corporation tax paid, not on the rate, but on the effective corporation tax, which is lower. The effective corporate tax rate is, after all, the corporate tax rate deducted from the deductions that the company can use, i.e. the expenses that are deductible from corporate tax. Therefore, effective corporate tax is lower than nominal corporation tax. If this bill were not adopted, effective corporate tax would increase. Then several people have mentioned the funding in the proposal. So, because we have been aware of these judgments and of what could be the outcome of them, the government in the Finance Act has not budgeted with these revenues. There has been a note on the Finance Act which has shown that it would provide an additional income. It is then the note or note or note on the Finance Act that is used to finance it. In fact, as I have said, it is revenue-neutral, but if the legal situation that prevails today will continue to apply, then there will be additional revenue. If you adopt the bill, the additional revenue will not come in, and that is just like what you have to deal with. There the government has no desire to get an additional income of 0.5 billion. kr. from these companies, in addition to the fact that it will give a significant administrative burden to sort out some things that are perhaps difficult to calculate today. I welcome the dialogue that has taken place with the organisations in the process and, in the light of the consultation responses received, we have chosen to adjust the draft law on some points. Among other things: we have chosen to set the date of entry into force at 1 January 2018 so that companies have the opportunity to draw up an annual report in accordance with the proposed lax rules. Furthermore, it provides that the extension of the right to deduct professional wage costs also applies in group circumstances if the companies are jointly taxed. To conclude, I would like to acknowledge the comments that have been made. To the SF rapporteur, I can say that it is not government policy to increase corporate tax. We have no wish to do so. We warmly and wholeheartedly support the corporate tax relief that the previous government carried out with the support of a number of parties. The tax that does not have to be paid as corporation tax is not, of course, money drawn out to the owners of the enterprise. It is money that can stay in companies and work there so that you can invest in the technology that also ensures that there are jobs for employees, not only tomorrow and the day after, but also for future generations. That is why it is not our agenda to raise corporate tax, but I respect, of course, that other parties mean something other than the government. I would then like to reply to any questions I have raised and to the committee which follows the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128135227	Thank you. There is one comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128135232	Thank you. The fact is that there have been two judgments, and that is why the state of law is, unless we make it that the judgments of the Supreme Court must of course be followed. And if you take it as the status quo and we change it, then the Minister's own remarks on the bill say in black and white that there will be less revenue of 1⁄2 billion. kr., or more precisely 430 million. kr. after retreat. It is, of course, a small amount of money that could otherwise be spent on care for the elderly or health care or whatever it is. I just think we should be honest about that. If we follow the legal situation established by the Supreme Court, there will be an additional revenue for welfare, or whatever it might be, of just under 1⁄2 billion. kr. We may have political disagreements as to whether or not it should be financed in a way that is solidarity in the business world, but that is 1⁄2 billion. kr. then cannot be used for care for the elderly, child care, health care. I just want to ask the Minister if the Minister does not agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128135331	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128135333	That's right. I do not entirely agree with any of the rhetoric that Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen puts on it. And then we have a number of different starting points where I would point out that if we are to be able to afford care for the elderly in the future, we must have Danish jobs, and then we must have Danish companies. We must create growth in that part of the economy that is outside the state and outside the public sector. It is because it is the part of the economy outside the public sector and outside the state which finances the rest. And when we increase corporate tax, we reduce the competitiveness of our companies, and corporate tax is a competitive parameter. Therefore, the government does not want to increase corporate tax. That's what would happen if you didn't pass this bill. Then the effective corporation tax would be increased, and Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen is absolutely right in saying that more money would then come into the treasury. Now we say that there have been some judgments. These judgments will lead to that, but we choose politically to cancel it. We will change the legal situation and lead it back to what some companies thought it was originally before these cases were raised and won, ultimately in the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128135439	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128135441	There may be plenty of cases where citizens or companies think that something should be in a certain way. It's not like that. That's not a way to make politics. Now we're so many parties that it's fair to make it simpler with this change of law. And then we just look at it differently if you need 1⁄2 billion. kr., which one might otherwise spend on some other things. But I don't think we're gonna make it that way. Then I would like to ask the Minister a specific question, namely whether this does not mean that there will also be less revenue of 70 million. kr. for the municipalities and that the municipalities will not be DUT'ed for the 70 million. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128135517	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128135518	There I have to be honest and say that that part of the bill sounds like Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen is better inside than me as a minister. I would like to reply to the question in writing. It is generally the case that the municipalities, if they have a DUT requirement, raise it in the negotiations that are there. And sometimes you recognize that yes, there is a DUT requirement automatically, and then it is included in the big calculation. Sometimes it is said that here we do not actually believe that there is a DUT requirement. And if the bill is what Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen points out, then the professional assessment must necessarily be that the municipalities do not have a DUT requirement. Then you can challenge it from the municipal side at the forthcoming municipal negotiations. However, I am happy to reply in writing to the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128135607	Thank you. No one else has asked for the floor. The debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128135616	The debate is open. Sir. Jesper Petersen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128135630	The bill here is intended to exempt theatres and day-care institutions organized as self-serving institutions from tax liability on income derived from theatrical or day-care activities. It is also proposed to reduce the tax liability of certain funds and associations. So far, in our opinion, there has been an inappropriate discrimination on the theaters themselves, depending on whether they have received subsidies from municipal or state teams. It seems illogical and has no purpose for small regional theaters, who are largely self-sufficient but have no profit in mind, to still be taxed on any profits. And making a profit for a year can be about trying to scrape together to make a bigger setup in one of the following years. Self-owned day-care institutions are also proposed to be exempt from tax on their profits with the bill. It is a condition that the day-care institution is organized just as a self-serving institution and that revenue can only be used for the purposes of the institution and cannot be taken out for private profit or the like. The draft law is not considered to have significant revenue implications since SKAT has not, in practice, so far asked the self-owned day-care institutions or theaters to pay tax on their profits. They could then have the prospect of doing so if they chose to enforce the law in the way it actually was, but here we have it adjusted in a fair way in our opinion. Social democracy will vote in favour of the bill when it comes to the third reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128135759	Thank you. Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128135804	As has already been said, it is a question of the self-serving day-care institutions and theatres being taxed if they have operating profits. Or at least the rules are that they will not be enforced in this way, so they can be positive enough. But that means that it can be difficult for example. theaters to save up over the years in order to make a larger production or for a self-serving day-care institution where you can imagine that you might put something aside every year in order then perhaps after a few years to be able to renovate the playground or make some other investments. That, of course, is not the purpose of this. That is why we think it is a good thing that there is this bill which exempts self-serving day-care institutions and theatres from taxation, in which it becomes essential that the statutes say, of course, that the purpose could be, for example. to operate day-care institutions and not to distribute to owners. So we think that this makes sense with the proposed rules, and that is why we support it in the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128135859	Thank you. Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128135908	Thank you for the floor. We are fortunate in Denmark that we have so many self-serving theatres, self-serving day institutions and all sorts of other self-serving things that do a whole lot of work without as such having a ownership circle. That is why we think it is very positive that, with this proposal, we are proposing to exempt self-owners and day-care institutions, private carers, leisure homes and clubs whose income is used exclusively for the purpose of the institution and that, if they have a taxable income that does not exceed DKK 100,000, they will be able to submit a declaration instead of a tax return. That would relieve them of a lot of trouble, you might say. We think this is very positive, and we hope that this will help to ensure that we also have a thriving life of association and a lot of self-serving institutions in the future. So the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128135958	Thank you. Sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128140005	From the point of view of the Enhedslisten, we are in favour of the basic idea and approach of the draft law, but we also have some things that we would like to clarify in the further discussion. The bill will allow tax freedom for self-serving theatres and self-serving day-care institutions as well as change the administrative burden by making a more relaxed declaration system. This is, of course, something we support as a starting point. The bill is only relevant to theatres and daycare institutions, which do not draw money to an owner's circle, which must have a return, but are organised in such a way that the money is reinvested in the theatre or daycare centre. So that's really nice. Having said that, we have noted that there is also a response from BUPL, which has a number of critical comments, in relation to the fact that the draft law is designed so that any surplus or less consumption from the operation of the self-serving day-care institutions can be transferred to a free primary school, provided that it is the free primary school which operates an associated day-care institution. There we think it is worth looking at more here, that this possibility of transferring money from the day-care institution to the school should be closed, so that there are clear guidelines, so that the less consumption or profit, depending on how it is formulated, is in the day-care institution and is reinvested in the day-care institution, so that it is not used as a way of making a transfer of funds to the school, so to speak. So there are at least some places where we think there is a problem that we need to have drilled a little into the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128140211	There are no comments. Sir. Carsten Bach, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128140225	The purpose of Bill L 105 is to put an end to the growing interest of SKAT in various self-serving institutions. When a self-owned institution generates a certain surplus, it is not a profit in the same way as if any other company had generated a profit. In one company there are some owners who profit from the profits while, for example, there are in others. the self-serving kindergarten is merely a question of being put into the world to take good care of the children. When a self-serving kindergarten e.g. Saves for a new playground or something else, it is, to put it mildly, a little crazy to consider it a taxable profit. In the Liberal Alliance, we are very pleased that this issue is now being addressed. In our view, the self-serving institutions play a very important role in the life of Danish society, and the current situation is unsustainable. That is why, of course, we also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128140336	Thank you. Sir. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128140338	The proposal corrects some irregularities, and we think that is very sensible. We have taken note of the consultation answers from the Danish Arts Foundation and Danish Theatre Associations, and there are some things about how to finance the small proceeds, and whether the voluntary theatre associations should also have the opportunity to benefit from this scheme. We need to look at this in the committee work. But the framework is reasonable, and that is why we are positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128140408	Thank you. Sir. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128140416	If a self-serving theater or a self-serving day-care institution makes a profit, for example. This year, and would like to save that profit for next year or for two years, the law as it is today means that you will be taxed on that profit, even if you intend to spend the money on developing your theatre or your daycare centre. The bill here allows the institution and the theatre to transfer the money to the coming years without having to pay tax on the profits. We think that is very good logic, and that is why in the Radical Left we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128140457	Thank you. Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128140513	I think there are many good tactics in the draft law, which is, of course, very much about getting away from the principle of figuratively petrol burning, as you see in some places, in order to avoid taxation. That's too bad. However, we have also, like Enhedslisten, noticed the hearing response from BUPL and would like to ask some questions in committee to the tax minister in relation to the whole discussion about our school system and how the transfers between an institution and the free schools can work. But overall, we are positive, and then we just need to clarify something about the transfers that can take place between day-care institutions and free schools.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128140604	Thank you. Sir. Anders Johansson, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128140613	The aim of the draft law is to ease administrative burdens and difficulties for theatres and day-care institutions organized as self-serving institutions, while making it easier to invest over several years. In addition, the draft law contains some minor relaxations in the requirements of non-profit associations in relation to tax returns. In the Conservative People's Party, we are very much in favour of lightening burdens and reducing bureaucracy and adjusting inappropriate regulation, which is why we can, of course, support the bill. We think it makes a great deal of sense to give the self-serving institutions a better chance of saving up for greater investment in, for example. their theatre or their kindergarten. It is, of course, a prerequisite in the draft law that it only deals with self-serving institutions which operate institutions so that they can invest their money more sensibly in Finally, the bill provides an administrative relaxation for small non-profit associations and self-serving institutions if they have a taxable income of less than DKK 100,000. They avoid having to submit tax returns in the future. Instead, they can make a statement. In so doing, they should not divide their taxable income into different categories of income into a tax return. It is, in turn, a relief for the non-profit associations, and we are very much in favour of the associations being able to focus more on their association work rather than on bureaucracy and administration. So, from a conservative point of view, of course, we can back up this very good bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128140800	Thank you. Then it's the tax minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128140808	Thank you. First of all, I would like to express my regret to the President-in-Office. The President sent me before some kind but certain looks, and I think it was because as a minister I was the cause of a little unrest around the Chamber. I'm sorry about that. After all, financial law is being negotiated at the moment, and it may also be an explanation for the audience to have a little talk with all the people. But it should not, of course, go beyond the consideration of other proposals, so I will be aware of that another time. Fortunately, the Finance Act is only negotiated once a year. I would like to thank you for the overall positive reception of the draft law and for the debate and discussion that has taken place. I am pleased that it appears that a broad circle of parties are backing the bill. The government wants to make it easier to run self-owned theatres, day care institutions, private institutions and private care services, leisure homes and clubs. The draft law will help to limit the administrative burden for each institution and association. At the same time, the institutions and associations concerned must have more flexible opportunities to use a profit from one year to invest in the coming years. In fact, the draft law has come on the basis of some requests I have received as a tax minister from a number of these associations, which have pointed out that the tax administration, as I think the Liberal Alliance rapporteur also mentioned, had caught up with some of the things that were going on. It is not the wish that the tax administration should zealously look through every voluntary association to see if it has now been calculated on the 25-ear. There you have to go for the big fish, where there's a lot of money to pick up, and there's other places to go. But that doesn't change the fact that the law is as it is, and that is what one must comply with when one becomes aware of it in SKAT and when one becomes aware of it as a union. That was the question that the associations in question raised to me that it was fair enough, but was there so reasonable in the rules? I quickly agreed with the Minister for Culture that we do not actually think there is, and that has become the bill here. We want the bill to improve the conditions of voluntary association and self-serving institutions. The first part of the draft law is the tax exemption for producing theatres. It shall apply to self-owned institutions or associations in which the revenue can be used exclusively for the purposes of the institution. The second part of the bill is a tax exemption for day-care institutions, private institutions and care services, leisure homes and clubs. Here, too, it is a condition that these are self-serving institutions in which the revenue can be used exclusively for the purposes of the institution. Furthermore, it is proposed that non-profit associations and self-serving institutions which have a taxable income not exceeding DKK 100,000 be given the opportunity to make a declaration instead of a tax return. It is my impression that it will facilitate the daily lives of a number of these associations and self-serving institutions. They don't have to make a full tax return. It is very, very limited what tax revenue there is. The draft law removes the uncertainty which has existed in the secretariats and day-to-day institutions for a resumption of previous years of income. I have chosen to ensure that the reductions will take effect as from the 2012 income year, so with retroactive advantage. It is then up to the individual association and institution to decide whether to make use of this option. I would like to thank you for the support that has been provided. I look forward to future committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128141134	Thank you. No one has asked for any further comments. That concludes the debate. Then I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128141149	The debate is open. Sir. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128141205	Thank you. Today we are discussing a bill that will create a more direct link between how many new quota refugees are granted residence permits in Denmark and how many refugees and family members have already been granted residence permits. In this context, I think it would be useful to look a little further and see the current discussions in the field of foreigners in a slightly larger perspective. Like many others, I have enjoyed the Danish Radio series on Danish history. In the last section it was clear how each generation has had to deal with complex challenges for society • issues which in the light of hindsight seem obvious, but which in those days led to violent discussions and bitter conflicts in the population and also in this Chamber. This was true of the constitutional struggle over 100 years ago, which ended with the failure to rule against a majority in the Folketing. This was the case with the handling of the economic and social crisis in the 1930s, which was handled with a broad and well-known political settlement reached in Kansslergade. This was true of the occupation and resistance struggle, as was Denmark's position in the Cold War, the building of the welfare society, the youth uprising, the free abortion and the fight for gender equality. Although the Danish Radio series was expected to create subsequent political debate, I think most people today agree that, despite many mistakes along the way, the previous generations ended up getting a good society together that we can benefit from today. What, then, is the great task of our generation? What will posterity judge us on? Will it be the school teachers' working time agreement or the calculations behind the agricultural package, or who received the mayor's post in Slagelse? I don't think so. My assessment is that our grandchildren will look back on our time and assess how we handled that hundreds of millions of poor people want to move the tent poles up and settle elsewhere, many in Europe. Sixty million people are on the run, 20 million of whom have been driven out of their homeland. It is not a temporary and delimited state as it was with the Hungarian refugees in the 1950s or Chilean and Vietnamese refugees in the 1970s or Bosnian refugees in the 1990s. This is a much more comprehensive, tragic and almost permanent situation. We will be judged on whether we were able to help our fellow human beings, but we will also be judged on whether we were able at the same time to maintain the secure welfare society entrusted to us by our parents and grandparents. If we lose that balance, we fail. When I was born, I had 1%. of the population of non-western background like my father. Last year, 22 percent of the total was spent. of all children born of women who are immigrants or descendants of non-western countries. The population is changing and is moving relatively fast. Citizens with roots in Pakistan, Syria or Somalia are neither worse nor better people than all of us, but as legislators we have a responsibility to assess the overall impact on society of this change in population composition. Here we cannot afford to lose ourselves in our nice neighbor who is studying law and the hardworking greengrocer down the corner. We cannot be indifferent to statistics on employment rates, support costs, health features, crime, placement cases and discrimination. We need to be able to ensure that practitioners for everyone, a proper reception in our schools, Danish education, housing, an association life with profits to receive the families and everything else it takes to replant a family to the Danish society. We have underestimated all this. It is the view of the Social Democrats that we have been distributing too many new residence permits for many years and that it has been working on solidarity in our societies. We are therefore pleased that there is increasing political attention to the fact that the capacity of society is not endless. We need to be able to keep up, so we need to solve more problems than we are creating, otherwise we will only create more cultural conflicts, more vulnerable residential areas and greater economic challenges. On the more specific issue of quota refugees, I would like to say that the Social Democrats have the basic view that Denmark should receive quota refugees. It is therefore also reasonable that the draft law requires the government to budget with the reception of quota refugees. The clear position of the Social Democratic Party is also that Denmark should re-inhabit 500 quota refugees as a starting point, which is not clear enough from the government's proposals. The reason why the Social Democratic Party nevertheless supports the temporary stop for the reception of quota refugees that is now is that in recent years Denmark has accepted an exceptionally large number of spontaneous asylum seekers and family reunifications. With this bill, the actual number will be determined after an assessment of the other asylum influx, family reunification and integration in general. This creates a reasonable link between the capacity of society and our humanitarian commitments. For the Social Democratic Party, both considerations are important. In addition, it would be sensible if the assessment of the quota should not only be narrowly determined by the government, but should take place after prior discussions with the National Association of Municipalities, which has most of the integration responsibility in practice. Finally, in our opinion, it would be sensible for the small group of the weakest refugees to be able to receive them with treatment-intensive diseases at all times from Denmark, regardless of how integration is progressing. A solution must be found here which does not necessarily have to be the same as for the large group of quota refugees. With those words, we can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128141709	There are a few comments. Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128141713	Thank you. It is already the case that if a government believes that Denmark should not accept quota refugees, one can go down to the Parliamentary Chamber and try to get support for a change of law. With this bill, it will then be the minister in office at any time, who will then alone have the power to take that decision. In other words, power is being removed from the Folketing to the Minister. I think it is a very big decision if Denmark decides that we will no longer be taking quota refugees. Why give the Minister and the government the power to decide alone? Why not say, as it is today, that making such a large decision must be a majority in favour, and it must be discussed openly in the Parliamentary Chamber?
ParlaMint-DK_20171128141806	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128141808	Our current Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration has decided that we should not take quota refugees, for example. Here in 2017. This is not something we have been discussing in connection with a legislative proposal or voting on. After all, this is a decision that the Minister is authorised to make. But if it was the case that a majority of the current Parliament wanted to receive 500 quota refugees, for example, it is simply to table a resolution. It's always gonna be that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128141836	Here you go, Mrs. Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128141838	Today it is the case that if the Minister thinks that quota refugees should not be accepted, then within a three-year period we can move around and say that it is not this year that we are postponing it. With this bill it's just like what the bill is about... it's not only within the 3-year period you can move around as a minister, no, then the minister gets the authority to decide that we shouldn't take quota refugees. Now the minister can just postpone it a little. That is quite a significant difference, and I simply do not understand why one should remove that decision from the Folketing and therefore also from the public, so that one is standing here open and telling why we are making this decision and then putting it to the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128141920	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128141922	Firstly, the agreement that exists with the UN refugee organisation, which in the old days was called 500 a year and which is now called 1,500 over a three-year period, is not cast in concrete. It can always be changed. There will always be a political majority interested in that. This has been the case yesterday, and it will be the same tomorrow if we adopt this bill, namely that it is first and last the Folketing that will decide how many quota refugees are to be taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128141949	Thank you. Then it's mr. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128141953	I think that Mr. Mattias Tesfaye has some good points. Among other things: He mentions the economic pressure that Danish society has come under, which is due to the influx that has been and the influx that is. But if this is the main argument for supporting the Minister's bill, why not address the issue of those who come most in Denmark, namely those who come spontaneously and apply for asylum? Then we are going to have to put an end to asylum, because in the vast picture 500 UN quota refugees a year do not have much to do with it. That is one question. The second question is whether the Socialist rapporteur is not concerned about the exception in the draft law, whereby the Minister will be able to take more than 500 UN quota refugees. Perhaps it might be decided that it might be sensible for us to take 5 000 quota refugees in one year, which is the possibility with the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128142040	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128142043	First of all, on the arrest of asylum: what is our ambition, and that is enough in the longer term, is to say that if you are to have a residence permit in Europe, you should not have been in a dinghy, you should not have applied for it spontaneously. So if we could turn the boats in the Mediterranean so that there would be an asylum procedure on the other side of the coast so that we would only take quota refugees, I think we should take much more quota refugees than we are now taking, but that is just not the situation we are facing today. So just to adopt an asylum freeze at the Danish border I do not think is the right solution. Then I think it is funny that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party actually argues in the same way as the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, who fears that a minister, and it should then be another minister, will decide just to raise the quota. And I would like to say to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party the same thing as I would say to the rapporteur of the Enhedslisten, namely that all ministers must, of course, stay within the law, but must also ensure that a majority of the Danish Parliament is involved. One cannot simply rule against a majority in the Folketing, regardless of the direction in which it is going.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128142140	Here you go, sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128142142	As far as an asylum stop is concerned, within the UN Convention on Refugees, Denmark can decide to reject asylum seekers at the Danish-German border, and that will clearly be the most effective. This is something that will move something in terms of limiting or stopping the influx to Denmark. So it is easy to adopt this, and I am sure that it will also have an effect when it is rumored among asylum seekers and migrants that there is an asylum freeze in Denmark. So the Social Democrats could consider that. In relation to the other, I would like to ask again whether the Social Democrats are not concerned about the ceiling of 500. Yes, the bill says that there is a ceiling of 500, but that ceiling can of course be waived, so that at any time the minister in office can choose to depart from that ceiling and perhaps accept 5 000 or 10,000 in one year. There is, of course, no restriction on this in the draft law. Isn't that worrying?
ParlaMint-DK_20171128142224	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128142227	I am confident that the Danish people will put together a Parliament that will ensure that we do not get into the situation where we either end up with zero quota refugees permanently or with 10,000, as the Danish People's Party's rapporteur now says. I am confident that we will have a Parliament that can back up a government, that is, a minister who will ensure that we take a reasonable number of quota refugees, so that we strike the balance that I spoke about in my rapporteur's speech, namely the balance between our humanitarian commitments on the one hand and the responsibility for a united welfare society on the other. On the issue of the suspension of asylum, I would say that it is true that it can be done within the conventions, but it cannot be done within Schengen, and I think that we should be pleased that there are some EU rules that help to regulate this area; everything else would not be in Denmark's interest.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128142309	Here you go, sir. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128142311	I think, sir. Mattias Tesfaye gave a speech that had a number of excellent points. I just don't think he got into what the case is actually about, and that's why this government wants to stop quota refugees. That is what this is all about, and I understand that the Social Democrats will vote in favour of it. Don't impress me, sir. Mattias Tesfaye, that Denmark is stepping out of this arrangement? This also has a bit to do with how to assess the UN and the whole possibility of international cooperation in the whole area of refugees, and the social democracy has had a very proud tradition that it was important to support the UN in this kind of matter. One can say 500 from or to, and that is not what makes the load fall, but it can have a spill-over effect, so that other countries do the same, which means that the fundamental international solidarity, of which this is also a part, will wreak havoc. Doesn't that make an impression on Social Democracy?
ParlaMint-DK_20171128142422	Here you go, sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128142424	Thank you for the question. First of all, I do not think it is fair to say that this draft law is about the adoption of a stop for quota refugees, because that is not what it is about. It is about writing something into the law that is not there today, that is, a model for how a minister should assess how many quota refugees are to be taken. It is clear, of course, that a minister reflects a majority of the Parliamentary Assembly, otherwise the government would not be able to remain in office and that there would then be a difference between who is minister in this area and who will be in all sorts of other areas. Now we have had a minister who, for two years, thought it should be a zero quota, and we have chosen to back that because we think it is an extraordinary situation. However, it has also been important for us to say from the very beginning that we actually think that the UN quota refugee system with resettlement is one of the best that exists in a dark and sad world in the international asylum system, which is why it has also been important for us to stress that we continue to want to be part of the UN quota refugee system. Do we fear or impress that it will have a spill-over effect? If it had a spill-over effect, in the sense that others outside this room thought that we were sitting here and decided that we would never receive quota refugees, then yes. But that is not what we are adopting. We adopt a model for, to be taken how many I think it is also important...
ParlaMint-DK_20171128142538	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128142540	It cannot be separated from each other, and we all know that. We all know what this is about. It is that, despite the fact that the influx of refugees has actually fallen quite considerably, we no longer believe in this rich country that we can afford to exercise the very minimal solidarity that lies in taking 500 quota refugees. That's what this is all about. Mattias Tesfaye, and that's what the Social Democratic Party supports in this. I still find it incomprehensible with the socialist history of this and with the social democratic commitment to the UN and international cooperation. So it really puzzles me.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128142627	Sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128142629	I guess what this bill is about is what it says in the bill, and not what Mr. Holger K. Nielsen interprets that this is about. During the last 10 years, Danish society has received an average of 5,000 refugees and families brought together every year. It is refugees who are not worse or worse off than most of the quota refugees we are taking, who are after all selected for integration potential. So I don't think we have anything to be ashamed of. In the years leading up to the refugees going on motorways, the EU took overall between 4,000 and 8,000 quota refugees across the EU. Denmark took 500 each year, i.e. about 10%. of the total number of quota refugees distributed in the EU. I think it is important that the Parliamentary Assembly and both the right and the left side of the Parliamentary Assembly do not convince the Danes that we have something to be ashamed of. We have nothing to be ashamed of. We are the country in the world that spends the fifth most money on development aid, we take 5 000 refugees a year and are one of the countries that takes the most...
ParlaMint-DK_20171128142721	We must keep to our speaking time, thank you. Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128142726	Thank you to the rapporteur, thank you for your speech. I think today is a sad day, I have to say. I'm really sorry that the Social Democrats are backing this bill. In fact, I also hear from the rapporteur's speech that there is an understanding that the system of quota refugees is a positive thing, because that is exactly how we prevent people from having to make this flight and drown in the Mediterranean. So I really hear many positive things in the rapporteur's speech. What I am aware of is that the rapporteur says this way, I understand that the Social Democrats think it would be positive to accept a particularly vulnerable part of the quota system. Then I would like to know whether the Social Democratic Party will then table an amendment to this bill, so that if there are particularly vulnerable, they can be accepted, even this year and in the years to come.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128142821	Thank you. Sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128142823	Well, that is the case today, and it will also be the case in the future that it is a minister who has the authority to assess who is to be taken by quota refugees. My rapporteur's speech today, and I would also like to stress in our report's contribution, that we believe that those who are particularly demanding of treatment should be outside these considerations, and we must always take them as an indication from the Social Democratic Party that, if we come into government, these people, the particularly demanding of treatment, that is to say the weakest quota refugees, will, regardless of what get access to Denmark at roughly the level they have had before. So as to whether or not we are in favour of more people actually coming here via the quota and fewer people coming here spontaneously: yes, we think so. That is also why, for example, we are doing this. has supported the agreement that the European Union has made with Turkey, which is probably the most important step towards turning the boats around and ensuring that it is not the spontaneous flow of asylum that continues to be the primary and overriding road into Europe. But sometimes it has been a bit tricky to get the rest of the Parliamentary Chamber on some of the slightly more difficult decisions that could actually bring the asylum system in a more positive direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128142920	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128142922	Well, that is where the chain gets completely off for me, because then I do not understand that social democracy can back up saying no to quota refugees now and here, because that is exactly the system that works, but it is then a discussion that we can have. However, in relation to the contribution of the report, we all know that this bill is because the Minister wants to limit the number of quota refugees. The Minister has not concealed that fact. She hasn't concealed that last year, that is, that she wants to stall that system. That is what the Social Democratic Party is supporting. Why is it that the Social Democratic Party will not be involved in making an amendment on the particularly vulnerable group, which is particularly demanding for treatment, for this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20171128143006	Thank you. Sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128143007	I would just like to say when the alternative rapporteur says that we all know that this bill is about the Minister having the right not to take quota refugees, that the Minister is already right. That is why we are not taking quota refugees. It's not this bill that makes it possible to take a zero quota or not. This bill writes in the Aliens Act how that model is to be combined and according to which criteria such an assessment should be made, and if you read carefully, you will also see that it is reasonably imprecisely formulated how to weigh the activity rate and training conditions etc. etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128143040	Thank you. Then there is another comment. Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128143048	I am taking the floor because I believe that the rapporteur is on his way out on a slippery slope. It is not true that the Minister can just decide today that Denmark should not retake quota refugees. We have an agreement that Denmark should take 500 a year within a 3-year period. That's what it's all about. The Minister cannot run away from that today, but that is what this bill allows. Then the Minister can run away from the agreement we have at the UN. The Minister may decide that it will no longer apply if the Minister so wishes. That's what this bill is about. Can the rapporteur not confirm that we have an agreement today that Denmark should take 500 quota refugees a year within a three-year period and that this bill will change?
ParlaMint-DK_20171128143146	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128143148	Now it is not the Danish Parliament that has made an agreement with the UN. After all, it is the Danish Government that has made an agreement and the Danish Government makes the agreements that the Danish Government wants to make. Now that agreement has been going on for many years between successive governments that it should be 500. I think it was until 1998. It was then converted into a 3-year period of 1,500. But it's not something that's gonna change with this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128143210	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128143212	Well, then the minister didn't have to change the law. After all, the minister is changing the law so that she is given a mandate to decide whether or not Denmark should receive quota refugees. If today the Minister could simply stop it and decide for himself how many Denmark should receive and when we should receive them, then the Minister would not have to change the law. That's exactly what this bill is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128143237	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128143238	Yes, and that is what I say in my rapporteur's speech we have no problem with. And that is what I can understand: The Enhedslisten, Radicals and also the Danish People's Party have problems with, because it will depend on a political decision in the government with the support of the Danish Parliament whether it should be turned up or down. That is also why I stressed in my rapporteur's speech that our starting point for these discussions will always be 500 quota refugees per year, which Denmark has taken for many, many years.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128143303	Thank you to the rapporteur. Let's move on. Then it's mr. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128143311	Thank you. I would say that it is good that the Minister has the Social Democracy to lean on in the asylum policy, at least in this case. I am not sure that the Danish People's Party can be helpful. But thank you for the floor. When you read the bill, it says a lot of sensible things, such as that Denmark must be able to follow in terms of integration, foreigners' Danish skills, social control of women and the challenges of ghetto regions, etc. That kind of sounds pretty good. But when I dive into the substance, I get a little worried, not to say very worried. For is the government winding up a system which we know and which we are in control of in favour of a new regime which really allows future governments and this government to decide that Denmark should suddenly accept large numbers of quota refugees? As I read the bill, the minister in office will be able to raise the quota at any time outside the Folketing. In fact, it can be argued that this bill abolishes the current practice and thus abolishes the current ceiling of 1,500 quota refugees spread over a 3-year period. We have, of course, a ceiling today, but the draft law provides for the ceiling to be removed or raised to an unknown number of quota refugees. It will then be a concrete interpretation and assessment of what is needed in order for the Minister to be able to remove or raise the ceiling. It must be understood from the outset that it will require a special situation, that is to say to remove or raise the ceiling, but I do not think there is any doubt that it will be given more power at any time by the current minister to decide on the number of quota refugees both above and below the current ceiling, which must mean that any other minister will be able to remove the ceiling and decide to take a very large number of quota refugees in a single year. As I read the draft law, for example, the Minister will be able to conclude an EU agreement to take a larger number of quota refugees if it is a question of resolving a specific and specific situation, as the draft law says, but what exactly does that mean? It can mean a lot of things. This part of the bill can be interpreted in many different ways and, to put it mildly, it is not appropriate when we talk about Danish sovereignty, Danish asylum policy and the possibility that the Folketing can control the influx to Denmark. The draft law does not seem well thought out, or it has just been thought out, because it opens the door for a minister to adapt Danish asylum policy to the EU's ambitions to establish a supranational and common asylum policy, which must also include Denmark in the long term. At best, the draft law is unclear and ambiguous, in the worst case scenario, the draft law is the first step towards an EU quota system in which Denmark undertakes to take refugees from camps in North Africa, for example, because it opens up the possibility of seeking asylum from third world countries. Such a system could contribute to a whole new kind of influx into Denmark • an influx that we cannot control, because as long as Denmark is included in the UN Convention on Refugees, we cannot simply reject asylum seekers or refugees from third world countries if we first open it, even if it is only for a single year or two. The draft law states that the Minister may derogate from the ceiling of 500 quota refugees per year if the aim is to limit the flow of refugees, but paper is grateful. If an international agreement states that the purpose of the agreement is to limit the flow of refugees to Denmark or to Europe, the Minister may raise the quota to more than 500. A government will thus be able to raise the quota to 5 000, 10,000 or 15 000 in a single year with reference to an international agreement, which is obviously untenable for obvious reasons. Such decisions should go through the Folketing. There are many different interpretations of the bill I have heard three or four paragraphs but one has to understand that it can at any time decide to increase the annual quota to an unknown number of quota refugees if, for example, fewer refugees arrive in Europe. But the fact that, overall, fewer refugees are coming to Europe does not mean that there are fewer refugees coming to Denmark. I would like to stress that this is the heartblood of the Danish People's Party, and we are surprised that the government is taking something so lightly that is so serious. We are deeply surprised that the government can put forward a bill which is so unclear in an area that is so important to Denmark. We lean to vote no. There must be some very clear guarantees for the committee procedure before we might have to change it to a yes. Then I would also remind the Minister that it is unwise of a bourgeois government to start pursuing asylum policy without its parliamentary basis, the Danish People's Party. That must be the point.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128143747	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Marcus Knuth, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128143749	Thank you very much. Can the rapporteur not confirm that this government has already suspended the reception of quota refugees and that, in cooperation with the Danish People's Party, we have carried out a very, very long series of tightenings which have one objective, which is to reduce the number of asylum seekers in Denmark, why it is a rather absurd idea to start to fear that the government or the minister is implementing this bill in order to do anything other than reduce precisely the integration burden that we have?
ParlaMint-DK_20171128143824	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128143825	Yes, I can confirm that we have adopted many good restrictions together, but I also remember that the Prime Minister said at one point that we should accept 1,000 EU quota refugees as far as I remember, it was 1.000 • because German Chancellor Merkel thought it was a good idea. Fortunately, this was not the case, and we were also opposed to it by the Danish People's Party. But these are the sort of things that this bill, from our point of view, opens up to, and we find that worrying. We find this worrying, and in the Danish People's Party we cannot understand it, because if the wish is for it to be able at any time to decide whether you take 0 or 100 and then up to 500 in a year, then that is fine, but if that is what you think, why should there be an exception in the bill that allows you to take more in a year?
ParlaMint-DK_20171128143907	If you want two questions, you have to press on. It's very helpful. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128143912	However, I am sure that the rapporteur has read the text. It says that this particular situation is only in connection with, for example, an international agreement concluded with the aim of limiting the flow of refugees to Denmark. This is not something you simply do to increase the flow of refugees; it must be a very special situation in order to limit the flow of refugees. That is why I cannot really understand the rapporteur's concern.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128143935	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128143936	Yes, but sir. Marcus Knuth knows as well as I do that sometimes you write something in an agreement, and then it is not always implemented. It happens on a regular basis in here at Christiansborg. And there may be many different explanations for not doing things. Sometimes you also have to follow it up a little before it is implemented in the real world. And that is why it is not enough to make an international agreement with some other countries or with the European Union, where you then have an ambition to limit the number of refugees to Europe. It may well be that the number of refugees is limited to Europe, but that does not necessarily mean that the number of refugees is limited to Denmark. If you want a practice that is such that it can at any time decide whether to take between 0 and 500, then you can make a bill where it is clear, that is that the Minister can decide a number of up to 500 at any time, and if you want more than 500, you should come and ask the Folketing again.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128144022	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's just sir. Marcus Knuth, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128144038	Thank you very much, sir. President. In the Left, we are pleased that we have been helping to take responsibility for a large number of the world's refugees for a long time. This is needed and, of course, it is something that we must continue to do, but for us it is not about whether we want to help the world's refugees, because the answer to that is a resounding yes. It is about us wanting to help ourselves decide how to help the world's refugees, because we also have a responsibility for our own fellow citizens and for our own society, and that is where I believe as a politician that my greatest responsibility, and that is for all politicians here, is to protect Denmark. By this I mean that care should be taken to bring so many refugees here that the cohesion force collapses, so that the Denmark that we have spent a long time building, yes, since the dawn of time, is burdened unnecessarily or risk not being able to hang together. That would simply be irresponsible. The draft law here provides for a greater degree of flexibility in relation to the current situation when it comes to determining the number of refugees to be re-inhabited annually. This is done by introducing a new quota system in which the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration decides how many foreigners can be repatriated in Denmark. We think this is a quite sensible change. This makes it possible to take greater account of the cohesion of our societies. The Minister can take account of the social and economic capacity of society before the quota number is fixed. In other words, the Minister must, among other things: take into account how well integrated the foreigners already living in Denmark are. In the Left, we believe that this is, among other things, the case. is defined by the fact that one has come to work, that one knows the Danish language etc. It is quite necessary to take account of this so that we can ensure a secure society in which we can recognise our own culture and a country that is connected. The draft law must be seen in the light of the large fluctuations in the number of spontaneous asylum seekers in recent years. This has put considerable pressure on our authorities and our society, and even though the number has fallen sharply, we must bear in mind that many of those who have come here in previous years continue to put pressure on our social and economic capacity, and even though the number that has arrived here has decreased significantly, the number of spontaneous asylum seekers is still about four or five times above the level of quota refugees that we would otherwise have taken. One important point to add is that it is not only by taking quota refugees that we can contribute to helping the world's refugees. And let me stress, like the Social Democrat rapporteur, that we support the quota system. This only presupposes that the integration and influx of spontaneous asylum seekers are controlled. However, in the Left, we also believe that our aid to refugees must be done by means of reinforced efforts in the neighbourhood; we must do so, and we continue to attach importance to this. With the new flexibility provided by this bill, we will ensure that we can strike the right balance to a greater extent, in other words that the balance remains between being a country that takes responsibility for the world's refugees, but also a country that takes responsibility for our own citizens and the society in which we live. That is why the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128144354	I would like to thank the rapporteur for this. It gave rise to a number of questions. The first is sir. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128144402	When I take the floor, it is actually because I believe that this is, frankly, a bit of a blur of a discussion • scam and scam. So, this does not mean anything, compared to if the proposal was about spontaneous refugees and we could, so to speak, make a total ban on asylum; then that would be another discussion. Now we are discussing up to 500 quota refugees. Now we are embarking on this discussion, which basically does not mean anything, but having said that, I am rather sceptical that the ceiling of the 500's will be removed, it can only be lifted, and the Minister can do so in a sovereign way bypassing the Folketing. I think that's a really bad idea. I don't see how this is a tightening up. So, basically, this is a relaxation because the ceiling is removed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128144458	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128144459	So, I see that, to put it mildly, as teasing on the part of the rapporteur. We have already shown clearly what our intention is, during the last, yes, 21⁄2 years in a very, very close collaboration with the Danish People's Party. If it were the case that we wanted to increase the number of quota refugees, then we would probably not have suspended the quota system already. This means that we do not go down to the Parliamentary Chamber over and over again to consider whether or not we want to take quota refugees, but that it is up to the Minister. After all, the Minister has already suspended the number of quota refugees. So that one, yes, concern that this bill is the opposite, I see more as teasing, so try to look at reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128144541	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128144542	In fact, when you make legislation, I think it is essential that you be precise. When you introduce such an elastic band, then everything else is not an expression of a tightening, but rather of a relaxation. And then again: this proposal pretends to want a lot, and then it's trivial compared to the big picture. In other words, if the rapporteur could promise me and if the government could promise me that a proposal will be put forward that we can put an end to asylum if that is what is needed, then I think we are in a completely different debate where we would very much like to support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128144621	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128144622	Now I am beginning to fear that I know that this is not the case, but the rapporteur makes it appear that the rapporteur has not been present and voted in favour of the very, very many restrictions that have contributed very strongly to the historic decline in the number of spontaneous asylum seekers. The rapporteur makes it sound as if this is the only tightening that we are making in the field of foreigners. That's absurd. This has to be seen as part of a whole series of actions that have come. In view of the concern that, in a particular situation, we can change this, it is clear in the text that this can only be done in the context of an international agreement concluded with the aim of restricting trade between Member States.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128144706	Then it's mr. Martin Henriksen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128144709	Yes, and then you have to read the sentence a little further. It also says that if it is for strategic reasons, it may be possible to resettle people from third world countries. And that can be interpreted in different ways. And again, an international agreement can easily be drawn up between Denmark and the European Union or between Denmark and other countries, where the agreement then states that the aim is to limit influx. But the fact that something is on a piece of paper does not mean that it is being carried out into the real world. Well, it's just not. That's the way it is in here all the time. At any rate, at Christiansborg, it is the case at regular intervals that political decisions should be followed up. I don't know if sir. Marcus Knuth remembers when the Prime Minister said at one point that I think it was meant as a hand to the German Chancellor Angela Merkel that Denmark should receive 1,000 extra quota refugees. Now it will be much easier if it is for the Prime Minister or anyone else in the government or in future governments to have such a clever idea at another time to be kind to the Germans, or whatever. Well, sir. Marcus Knuth guarantees that another time the Prime Minister suddenly wants to say that Denmark can accept 1,000 extra quota refugees?
ParlaMint-DK_20171128144813	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128144814	Listen, this bill is designed to control the influx. And that is precisely why we have suspended the quota system. And if I remember correctly, I do believe that I have been sitting in a debate with the rapporteur as far back as two and a half years ago on TV 2 News and I am taking it from my memory, so it is as good as it might be where the rapporteur himself said that if we managed the influx of spontaneous asylum seekers, the rapporteur's party would be willing to look at the number of quota refugees. That is what can be said to happen indirectly here. If it is the case that we can really make an agreement where we get the number of spontaneous asylum seekers really, really, really well, and they do not come in any larger number, it could be, for example. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. But that alone will, of course, be part of an agreement that limits the overall flow.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128144911	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128144912	There are many different interpretations of this bill, but one of the interpretations is that you can make an agreement that is about limiting the flow to Europe. However, limiting the flow to Europe does not mean that it will also be limited to Denmark. That is not necessarily the case. So again I just want to say that paper can be very grateful; you can write everything into agreements, but if it is not implemented in the real world, you cannot use it for anything. If it is that the government wants to stop spontaneous asylum seekers and then subsequently have a discussion about whether to take 500 UN quota refugees a year, then that is a rather strange way to deal with it. Then we should start by dealing with a proposal in the Parliamentary Chamber, which is an asylum freeze in relation to the spontaneous asylum seekers. But you don't. Then I'd just like to ask, sir. Marcus Knuth to answer my question. I don't know if sir. Marcus Knuth remembers that at one point the Prime Minister said that Denmark would receive 1,000 extra quota refugees to be friendly to the German Government. With this bill, it will be easier for the government in office at any time to decide suddenly that we will take an extra 1,000 in one year if it is an agreement to do so. - Sir... Marcus Knuth guarantees that the Prime Minister does not suddenly promise that in one year Denmark will receive 1,000 extra quota refugees? Because this bill will be possible because there is an exception to the ceiling of 500.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128145027	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128145028	With all due respect, I think that the rapporteur shows a lack of understanding for the very, very close cooperation we have had with the Danish People's Party over the last 21⁄2 years. We have tightened up after tightening up for a single purpose, namely to reduce the number of asylum seekers so that we can manage integration here in Denmark. It's perfectly clear what this bill is all about. It is another element in getting a more flexible system so that integration in Denmark can be managed. And to call it something else I just don't think is fair. What the text says is clear that one exception can be made. Several exceptions will require a change of law, and the rapporteur knows that too. However, a single exception could be made if this is part of limiting the flow of refugees. Then the rapporteur asks a direct question about the Prime Minister. But the Prime Minister could also with the current system avoid this going out and making international agreements that the Folketing could support if there was a majority in favour of it. So this is mere speculation and a lack of confidence from the rapporteur's party, with which we have a very, very good cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128145138	Then we'll go to mr. Holger K. Nielsen as the next one asks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128145142	I must confess that I agree with the rapporteur on the interpretation he gives of this in order to just intervene in that discussion. A main argument in the Left is that we have too many problems here in Denmark, that we have to take care of our own citizens and that we cannot do that if there are 500 additional quota refugees. That must be how it should be understood. But it is not only Denmark that has a problem with the influx of refugees. This is a problem in a large number of European countries which, for many, are in a more difficult situation than Denmark does. They have not stopped quota refugees. They are still aware that it is actually a system that needs to be maintained if the international refugee system is to be linked. That is also why Poul Hartling, the old President of the Left, was at the time the chief man in bringing this about. That is why I would like to know whether there is absolutely no consideration on the part of the Left that it is not connected when it is constantly said that these 500 quota refugees will have been stopped because we have to do so for the sake of Denmark's internal problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128145313	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128145314	But as I said at the beginning of my speech, the Left is clearly in favour of helping refugees. The question is not whether the question is how. And here we think that with the situation we are facing, with so many who come here spontaneously, the time has not come to take quota refugees on top of that. In addition, I also made it clear, I hope, that we support the quota system, that the quota system is the right way to take refugees. But this requires that people do not enter both the front door and the back door at the same time. So when we manage integration and when we have control of the number of spontaneous asylum seekers coming here, then, of course, we want to open up quota refugees again. This requires just a few prerequisites so that we can maintain the cohesion of Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128145401	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128145403	Well, that's not true. In other words, the fact is that the Left has also decided to withdraw the carpet under the quota refugee system. And for that we must be able to keep track of Danish society: Well, we are one of the richest societies in the world, one of the most orderly societies in the world. The Prime Minister has said that several times that we are, and so there is much about it. There are problems, yes. But that is no bigger problem than that we can handle 500 of the poorest refugees in the world in this country. That is why the fact that we are supporting the quota refugees system is pure hypocrisy, when it is said in this way, because we do not. Then you wouldn't pull the blanket under this scheme with the stop you're going through here.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128145450	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128145450-2	It is true that Denmark is one of the richest countries in the world, and I wish it was so easy that we could just pay for well-functioning integration. Unfortunately, it's just not that easy. If the SF's rapporteur takes a trip to Mjølnerparken or some of the other ghettos we have here in Denmark, the rapporteur will very quickly see that over the past many years we have had growing and growing integration problems. And if we, like a rich country, could solve them with some money, it would be awful, terribly wonderful, but it's just not that easy. Integration cannot be solved with money. Integration requires that the number that comes here is at a level where we can actually keep up.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128145528	Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128145532	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. I was aware that the rapporteur said in his speech that we also need to do a great deal to help in the neighbourhoods. Is that not exactly what we are also helping to pull the curtain away under at the moment, precisely to help in the neighbourhoods, because we are now not relieving them of accepting refugees exactly from the vicinity? Because we have to do both if we are to help in the neighbourhood. We must both help financially, but we also have to relieve the surrounding areas from taking some of those who are most heavily burdened here to Denmark. So I would like to hear the rapporteur's reflections on what it really means to help in the neighbourhoods.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128145610	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128145611	I am sure that the alternative rapporteur has a fairly good picture of what Danish development aid is about in areas such as Jordan, Lebanon, Syria, Turkey, etc. I myself have worked with our Syria programme, and I would hate to stand here and spend a lot of time listing how that system is connected. I am sure the rapporteur is well aware of this. But our priority is now to help in the immediate areas of the region, where we can get a great deal for the development money that we have • versus pulling even more refugees into Denmark and exacerbating the integration that is already a great burden. And I believe that the cohesion of Danish society must also be weighed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128145657	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128145659	Thank you. Yeah, but it's not a verse. The rapporteur is now saying that we must help in the immediate areas of aid with financial assistance, as I understand it • versus taking quota refugees. That's not what this is about. It's about boats and... The United Nations has estimated that 1.9 million refugees need to be re-inhabited and 45 000 people have been re-inhabited. Why is it that Denmark can't afford to take these 1,500 that we owe from the last three years? And I would like the rapporteur's comments once again on the fact that this is not the "versusus'. Why can't we do boats-and?
ParlaMint-DK_20171128145739	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128145740	Well, I think I made it very clear in my answer to Mr. Holger K. Nielsen before that it has nothing to do with having advice. If this were a question of whether we could afford it financially, then it would be a very, very easy decision, but it is not that simple. We have seen increasing integration problems with people coming here, especially from non-western countries, over the past many decades. The problems of integration have become increasingly acute, and the rapporteur himself must recognize this. And the solution to the problems of integration that concern me as I understand it, at least from the inquiries I get more and more Danes more and more, is not to bring even more refugees here. Yes, we want to help refugees, but we will do so in the neighbourhood.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128145822	Then we can thank the rapporteur of the Left. Then it is the Enhedslisten, and that is Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128145832	Thank you. I think today is a sad day. I think this is because the United Nations quota refugee system is a good system and, above all, an important system. It is a way of ensuring protection for some of the people who cannot afford to pay for traffickers, and it is a way of ensuring the protection of some of the people for whom the escape is simply too dangerous. We all know that it is significantly more dangerous for women to flee than it is for men. We all know that a child's body can survive less time in the waters of the Mediterranean than an adult body. We all know that the risk to older people by fleeing is significantly greater than for example. for a physically strong young man. The United Nations quota refugee system is a way of avoiding the smugglers who all the parties say they want to fight, and the United Nations quota refugee system is a way of relieving the immediate areas that all parties say they want to support. It is simply because pulling out refugees, who may be in particular danger in the vicinity, is releasing resources. It's the quota refugee system we're moving further away from with this bill. From 1979 to 2015, in agreement with the United Nations, we have undertaken to take some of the quota refugees that the United Nations is trying to resettle, and from 1989 to 2015 this has been about approx. 500 quota refugees a year. As early as 2016, the government decided to suspend the reception of quota refugees, and this happened despite the fact that at that time it could be seen that the number of refugees actually decreased significantly already then. Since then, the number of refugees who come to Denmark spontaneously has fallen even further. The minister himself has called it historically so few refugees who are actually now coming to Denmark. That 500 quota refugees should be an insurmountable problem for a country as resourceful as Denmark is very, very difficult to understand. And Denmark, too, is the only country that has chosen to respond to this historic refugee crisis by saying: we don't want anyone; we don't want any promises. After all, the Minister already has the opportunity today to suspend receipt of quota refugees. This has also been demonstrated by the Minister's decision in 2016 and 2017. This bill then gives even more power to the minister. The Minister is now given the power to assess that Denmark simply has to stop taking quota refugees completely, and that estimate must therefore be made on the basis of what the legislative notes call a number of different factors in society. Those factors are that kind of gummy. They are totally intolerable. It is about how many refugees and immigrants are in work and in education and how many are on integration benefits. It is also about how fast and skilled refugees and immigrants are to learn Danish, and how many who violate the law are therefore intolerable criteria. At any rate, I have not yet been able to get any clear answers as to when we should be ready again to take quota refugees. In other words, the Minister is given the right of decision rather than that it is something that is decided in the Folketing. The UN and the UNHCR, which is the UN organisation working on this area, have been set up to try to deal with the desperate refugee situation in the world. The UN needs responsible partners, and the UN needs long-term planning. That club's gonna turn itself out of this bill. This bill makes the important, important work of the United Nations more difficult. We can only hope that no other country will be inspired by Denmark in this area. The hearings are clear. After all, a large number of organisations and institutions are clearly calling on the government to drop this bill and start again giving protection to quota refugees. There is simply an international need for the opposite of what Denmark and the government are doing. There is a need for more countries to shoulder their responsibilities. We are in the Enhedslisten fully in line with the critics, and I would urge Parliament to vote against this bill, just as I would urge the Minister to decide as soon as possible to give protection to UN quota refugees once again. As I said, this is a way to relieve the surrounding areas and a way to ensure just a little bit of justice in the unjust world in which we live. Indeed, it is a way of ensuring that some of the people who are unable to escape themselves can actually be protected.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128150409	Thank you to Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen. Then it's Mrs. Laura Lindahl, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128150416	Thank you. When we receive refugees, it is quite expected that there will be a bill to be paid in the first few years. It costs money to feed people, to give them a roof over their heads and to deal with their asylum cases. When people come from regions that are so different from Denmark, they do not avoid any cultural clash until some integration has taken place. In Denmark, as far as a great many people are concerned, we are still waiting for that integration to take place. It can be seen that the second generation of immigrants are even more over-represented in criminal statistics than the first, that the second generation has roughly the same backlog compared to the PISA results as their parents, and that the employment gap remains too large. The number of immigrants to Denmark from certain third countries has been far too large. We in Denmark have not managed to carry out the integration task. The price for it is great and is paid economically, socially and culturally. On the short track, there's only one way for me to see. We must receive far fewer and have a hard focus on much better integration in Denmark. The Liberal Alliance itself has proposed that more quota refugees should be taken because some of the most vulnerable are among the quota refugees. So it makes sense to focus your powers here. However, as long as we have a situation where we have no control over the spontaneous flow of asylum, it is not possible to give top priority to quota refugees. The overall picture is that Denmark has received more than we have been able to integrate, and we therefore do not have the capacity to take some of the most vulnerable people unfortunately. That's why we support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128150554	This gave rise to simple questions from Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128150558	Thank you. What is the main argument on the part of the rapporteur is that integration must first be in place. If it is in place, we can take more quota refugees. But would the rapporteur not agree that it is the government's responsibility to ensure that integration is improved and that, in this respect, it is in fact a problem that the current minister in this area does not give priority to integration, but, first of all, to send out signals that you have a tough immigration policy and that you make cake cuts when there are fewer people coming to Denmark, and I do not know what? All sorts of stunts are being done, if I may say so, which are supposed to indicate that here we have someone who is tough and tough in this area, whereas she is not interested in integration. Could it not then be an idea that the Liberal Alliance, which has now entered the government, raised this issue within the government and said to the Minister for Integration: Dear friend, you are also Minister for Integration and not just for stunts to give the government and yourself some harsh image?
ParlaMint-DK_20171128150715	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128150716	I do not think it is true that the Minister does not focus on integration. We can, for example. look at the Igu process, which has just begun and which is well under way out there and which we can see is a success. We can see that more and more people are taking advantage of the Igu process and we can see that it actually works. We can see that refugees are getting into jobs and, in my opinion, employment is exactly the best way to integrate. So some very good initiatives have been taken, so I simply do not agree with the premise that this minister should not be interested in integration. This is a priority and we can see that it actually works too.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128150756	Here you go, sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128150800	Now it is suddenly said that integration is going well and that jobs are being created and so on. I'm a little confused, I can tell you that. In other words, the main argument against quota refugees was that there was no integration. Then I say that there is a problem that this government must solve, and it has not done well enough, since there is a problem that makes it impossible for us to take quota refugees. That is why I ask whether it would not be an idea for the Liberal Alliance to raise this issue within the government and, like colleagues, to tell them that more steam must now be given to the entire integration effort and that the minister should not just be minister of various stunts.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128150841	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128150842	Listen: Integration is not a question of looking back the last two years. We are talking about the failure of integration in Denmark over the last 30 years. So there are various governments that have not lifted the responsibility that has to be lifted. It is not a responsibility that can be placed in the current government. It is a shared responsibility, and I think that we should assume that responsibility and say: we have just not done that well enough. When we can see that the second generation is more represented in crime statistics than the first generation, when they have a lag behind in terms of education they don't get any better, they don't get any better, then we have a problem, and we just have to take stock of that. Yes, some initiatives have now been taken which mean that things are going a little in the right direction, but that does not mean at all that we are near where we think it makes sense to welcome more refugees. We are just not there, but some small steps have been taken in the right direction, and I am pleased about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128150935	The next question is Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128150939	Sometimes, when you make a decision, you just have to think about it: imagine if someone else did the same thing as me. If anyone else did what I did, would it be good or bad? Denmark is at the moment. the only country that has decided to stop taking quota refugees. Does the Liberal Alliance think that it would be good, or that it would be bad, if more countries did like Denmark, namely stop taking quota refugees?
ParlaMint-DK_20171128151005	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128151006	I understand, in fact, if there are more countries that will try to control the situation they are in. Basically, I think that the quota system is good. I think it is a very good system, and we in the Liberal Alliance have also proposed that we should take more quota refugees on the assumption that we can sort out the spontaneous ones. I hope, then, that this will send out a signal into the world that good European solutions must be found precisely for the spontaneous flow of asylum, because that is the biggest problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128151039	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128151040	But if the biggest problem for Mrs Laura Lindahl is the spontaneous asylum seekers... if it's the main argument of the Liberal Alliance to vote for this bill and the main argument that Denmark shouldn't take the quota refugees... then there's nothing at all connected. For the government in which the Liberal Alliance itself sits, a minister boasts that historically few refugees come to Denmark. Well, you cannot both boast that historically few spontaneous refugees come to Denmark, and then say that because so many spontaneous refugees come, we cannot take quota refugees. Does the rapporteur not see that this is not connected?
ParlaMint-DK_20171128151121	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128151122	No, because this is about the fact that some initiatives have now been taken which have reduced the number of spontaneous asylum seekers in the last few years. But that does not mean, if we look back, that we have succeeded in integrating all the people who have come earlier. We just haven't succeeded in that task. If we had succeeded, it would have looked different. Then it is true that we have reduced the number I do not know whether we have reduced it to an appropriate level now ^ to an historically low number, and that is very good. However, we have a backlog from all the years when the number was higher, and we have just not achieved that. When I look out, I am not satisfied with the integration that is out there, and therefore I do not think we can be familiar with taking in any more.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128151205	The next question is Mr. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128151208	Thank you. I would just like to arrest a sentence that the rapporteur made, and it was that we are doing better with regard to integration. I mean, out of the Syrians who have come here, among other things. in 2015 this big intake that came in 2015 • it's 18 per cent. of the men who have entered work and 3%. 12 per cent of women, a total of 12 per cent. It's lower than the Somalis, as far as I'm aware. I don't think it's going very well. Frankly, I think that all this quota refugees is a bit of a blue light, because what it really is about, if we are going to solve this problem, is that the repatriations are going to be turbod. That is absolutely crucial. We can then discuss everything else, but I think that this is a marginal problem we are discussing now in relation to spontaneous refugees. If we could make an asylum stop for spontaneous refugees and then send people back, something would actually happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128151315	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128151316	No, when I say that there is better integration, one must bear in mind that the starting point is incredibly low. It is not because I think that integration is going well now. It was just an argument to say that we are not in the situation where we just stand by. You try to do some things. Igu was an example, and there are municipalities that start delivering on it and show better results. It is not because it is flashy results, but better. That's kind of the point. Then we fully agree with the Danish People's Party that you should look at repatriations. Clearly, we do not think that we have been good enough to look at the people who obviously do not thrive in Danish society. They may need a helping hand to get back to their homeland where they themselves would have a better life.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128151405	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128151406	Well, I just think we're spending some time on it, and it may be that the government seems like it's really getting tightened up, but I just think in many ways it's a blue light. Because, in fact, I also agree with Mr Seligman. Martin Henriksen in that quota refugees would not be a problem if there had not been the colossal consumption of spontaneous refugees, and that is the problem we are facing now. So there are really, really big problems. I would then also challenge the whole claim that the welfare state, no matter how rich it is, should just move in some handles and turn on some buttons and tilts, then all are integrated. This is simply an assertion which cannot be documented at all when we look at the long series of integration plans that we have had throughout history. It's a scam and a scam.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128151452	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128151453	Yes, there are a great many of the municipal integration projects which have in no way provided anything and which have been a complete waste of tax dollars. I also agree with the rapporteur that, of course, the most effective would be a halt to asylum, and Mr Kellett-Bowman knows that. Christian Langballe well that the Liberal Alliance believes. We really wanted to make an asylum stop tomorrow.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128151522	The next question is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128151525	Thank you. The last remark made by the rapporteur leads me very well to my question: does the rapporteur not recognise that we also have an international responsibility and an international commitment to help solve the world's challenges, including the refugee problem? As Mrs Lindahl herself said from the platform, the quota system is actually recognised as a good system. So how does the Liberal Alliance feel about turning its back on the international quota system here today?
ParlaMint-DK_20171128151558	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128151600	In isolation, however, I do not feel very good about it, but in view of the situation we are in, I think it is the right thing to do. In isolation, however, I think that the quota system is good. If we did not have spontaneous asylum seekers, I think we could easily take quota refugees, and I also think that we could take more than 500 per year. But in view of the fact that we get many spontaneous asylum seekers and have got it, I think this is the right decision. But that doesn't mean it's an easy decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128151637	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128151638	Thank you. Then I read right here from some figures that I have at least: In the first 8 months of 2017, only 2,000 spontaneous refugees have been granted asylum in Denmark, and the rate of recognition for refugees has fallen from 85 to 33, so that many fewer people visit the municipalities. We know that we have approx. 300, traveling in, every month. It is historically low, and so the number receiving asylum is also historically low. So what will it take before the Liberal Alliance stands up to its international responsibilities?
ParlaMint-DK_20171128151714	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128151715	Well, it takes us to see that the people who have come here are not over-represented in our criminal statistics, that they get as much out of primary school as they are at the level of their ethnic Danish classmates. We simply need to see that they are not predominantly on cash aid; we need to see that they are in line with ethnic Danes. That's where we're going.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128151742	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. And then it is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative rapporteur, who is taking the long way to the platform now.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128151803	Thank you. As the most recent speakers have made clear, we are here to consider the government's proposal for a new quota system. And what the government wants to do is to amend the Aliens Act, so it is the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration who decides at all times whether or not to take quota refugees. I can start by saying that in the alternative we do not support the proposal. And we are not doing this because adopting this proposal really means that as a country we are leaving the current quota system. For the legislative proposal means that we no longer have to take the 500 quota refugees we have taken every year since 1989. And that is a number that we already think is modest. In other words, as we see it, Denmark's international obligations will be abolished and the international community abandoned. The quota system is, after all, a voluntary system, which means that we are not legally obliged to take quota refugees. But in the alternative, we clearly believe that as a country we have a moral responsibility for taking quota refugees. And that means that it is a responsibility we take to help some of the world's most vulnerable people. Quota refugees are people fleeing from war and conflict, persecution and abuse. That is what this is all about and it is people who are in urgent need of protection. To date, taking quota refugees has been a choice that we have made, because it has been a decent choice, and because we in Denmark have a tradition of taking the lead and helping where we can get to it, including at international level, with common international solutions and common humanitarian aid. The United Nations quota system is based precisely on international cooperation and is an expression of international solidarity. It is a solidarity with the countries that house most of the world's refugees. And that is solidarity with those people who need urgent protection and resettlement. The temporary stop for quota refugees, which has already been adopted by a majority in the Folketing, and this bill, which we are about to adopt by the majority in the Folketing, signal to our neighbouring countries and the international community that we will no longer be involved in international cooperation to receive refugees. And that is precisely against the reports that Denmark has previously made on the international scene. At the UN Summit in New York last year there was broad support for strengthening and extending the quota system and there was broad agreement on the need for global solutions. It was an agreement which was implemented in the New York Declaration with the exact support of Denmark. It committed us to strengthening the work for the resettlement of refugees and to giving support to the countries that house many refugees today. And how do we, as a country, defend the fact that we are introducing a provision that is directly contrary to that agreement? If, as a rich and stable country, we run from our international agreements, we are legitimising other countries to do the same, and that will, as a consequence, cause the international quota allocation system to collapse. The government has announced that it wants to put an end to human smugglers. Why, then, is it that we are in the process of abolishing the only system which we know to be an effective tool for combating trafficking in human beings? The government's argument for both the bill and the temporary stop for quota refugees, which has already been adopted, is that we have integration challenges in Denmark. We are therefore very well engaged in mixing domestic political relations with foreign policy decisions, and so we are doing so by introducing a consideration which has nothing to do with the fact that a particular group of people has a special need for protection. We are currently faced with an historically high number of refugees worldwide. There has never been a greater need for an international distribution system based on global responsibility and solidarity with the weakest in the world than at present. And that is exactly what the United Nations quota system is for. That is why I would like to conclude by calling on the government, on behalf of the alternative, to withdraw the proposal and resume Denmark's withdrawal of quota refugees. Instead of showing the courage to take the lead in protecting and helping people flee from war, conflict and violations of the most fundamental human rights. Let us show the courage to take the lead in the fight to strengthen international cooperation, and let us not just be the best country in the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128152256	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is one brief comment. Sir. Marcus Knuth, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128152300	Thank you. After all, we share the view that the quota refugee system is the right way to take refugees. However, this presupposes that integration in Denmark is under control. Could the rapporteur say a few words about how the rapporteur himself feels about integration in Denmark? Have we over the last few years had increasing challenges with integration, or have we had falling challenges with integration?
ParlaMint-DK_20171128152327	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128152328	I think that integration is far better, for example. on the basis of the tripartite agreement that we have also supported, compared to looking at how many people have entered the labour market. I remember the number as approx. 37 per cent. I do not want to be hung up on this, but it is at least over a third of the refugees who have entered the labour market in the last five years. And I think that is a really, really positive signal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128152352	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128152354	I agree, of course, that we have been very good on the part of the government, unlike the previous Red Government, to get more refugees into work. It is still only a small step on the way, but now we are talking about the overall integration effort. Over the past few years, have there been major problems or fewer problems? In my view, the problems of integration have only increased in recent years, precisely because we have received so many refugees. And that is precisely our argument that this is not the right time to take quota refugees.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128152426	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128152427	In other words, I think that the rapporteur from the Left thus ignores the facts that we have. We have among other things. In addition, figures from the whole educational system, where we can see precisely that both in relation to young women, but now also the young men, who have a different ethnic origin from Danish, have a much, much higher distribution compared to taking both a basic education or a vocational education and also a longer-term education. So I do not really think that the rapporteur takes the overall picture into account or I find it difficult to understand that the rapporteur has that position if he does.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128152504	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in line is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128152515	We are discussing today, as has been shown, here in Parliament, whether in future it should be up to the minister in office to decide at any time whether and, if so, how many quota refugees Denmark should receive through the United Nations quota refugee system, and in the sure and powerful assurance that they will always share the post between themselves, the government and the Social Democratic Party have agreed with each other that this is a good idea. At the moment, as you know, Denmark is taking 0 quota refugees, not a single one, and Denmark is the only country in the United Nations that has put an end to quota refugees, according to the UN High Commissioner for Refugees. So Denmark is the only country that says loudly and clearly to the others: you can't count on us. It's actually the worst thing about this bill. Understand me correctly: for the 500 quota refugees who cannot now come to Denmark, but perhaps instead must stay in crowded refugee camps in Lebanon, in Jordan, in Kenya or elsewhere, it does of course make a concrete difference. As you know, quota refugees are the most vulnerable of the refugees; they are the ones chosen by the United Nations because they find it very difficult to manage in a refugee camp. But as Mrs Mette Frederiksen defiantly said at the Radical Left New Year's New Year's Assembly at the beginning of this year: that probably doesn't make a difference for no. 501, if Denmark takes 500 quota refugees, right? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, But if she is helped by another country, which also takes its share of the quota refugees, it makes a very big difference, both for her, but equally for the country that we relieve, because that country already takes a huge responsibility for the refugees of the neighbouring country. It's kind of the cooperation and the joint agreements that this bill makes up. If Denmark is not a country that you can count on, then we cannot expect any kind of legitimacy from other countries either, that we can count on them, and when you take that position, you are ultimately willing to let the whole cooperation fall apart. We are throwing the legacy of Poul Hartling on the dung dung dung ■ Poul Hartling, the former Danish Foreign Minister and Prime Minister from the Left, who since became the UN High Commissioner for Refugees and who in 1981 received the Nobel Peace Prize precisely for the establishment of the quota refugee scheme. We say goodbye to international solidarity, which finds its most ultimate expression precisely in binding agreements at the United Nations. Fortunately, a number of other European countries are now moving in the opposite direction and accepting more quota refugees. Thank you very much. That is the way forward, because we do not solve any problems separately. We do not get a safer, a stronger and a better Denmark by leaving responsibility to others. We need more international cooperation, not less. And yes, Denmark must receive the 500 quota refugees we have committed ourselves to in the UN because we can, but most of all because we want everyone else to assume the same responsibility. The Radical Left is, of course, opposed to this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128153011	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then it's mr. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128153028	One of the main arguments of the government parties and their parliamentary basis for not being able to receive these 500 quota refugees is that we have some very, very major integration problems here in Denmark, that we have very major social problems and that we have to deal with the difficulties we have here in Denmark first. Yeah, there's a problem. It is there with integration, among other things. because it is not a priority for the current minister, although she is also a minister for integration. It is clear that this is not the whole explanation, but it is actually an essential part of it. There are also social problems that we must deal with in relation to the citizens who already live in the country. But the question is, and that is what I think we in the Left should consider, as was also pointed out by Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, whether the price is not too high. After all, the Left has a proud tradition in this area through Poul Hartling, who was the High Commissioner for Refugees and was actually the platter of this scheme and was very proud that he became a fad for the scheme, and very proud that Denmark had the prominent role in UN refugee policy. Is it the 500 quota refugees we have to take, which means that we cannot cope with integration, that we cannot cope with our social problems, that Danish society cannot hang together? We know it's not. We know very well that it is not. That is not the question. That is also why, as has also been pointed out, a large number of other countries which have just as much problems as Denmark. Norway, whose integration minister seems to be a friend of the Danish, does not turn down the number of quota refugees, because it is so much of the Norwegian tradition that one wants to show solidarity internationally and that one gives priority to the UN system that one does not want to pay that price. That is precisely what I see as the main problem in this. That is true, as has been said: what does 500 mean in the refugee camps? No, we know that this is not what makes it collapse. But the other way round, it is not what makes Danish society stick together. The problem is if it is contagious if it affects other countries to do the same, and that is what the difficulty is now. In a number of countries there is the same discussion that we also have in Denmark. It is clear that the whole refugee situation is one of the major discussions in a large number of countries. It is a great challenge in a number of European countries, and then it can be very, very tempting to refer to Denmark and say: OK, Denmark has stopped taking quota refugees; should we not do the same if we are to solve our problems? And suddenly it spreads like rings in the water, and then this system falls apart. It is a high price to pay, and I think the Left, with the tradition of the Left in this area, should think about that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128153407	There are questions from the Left in particular. Marcus Knuth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128153409	Let me begin by saying that I and we are, of course, very, very proud of our former politicians, including Poul Hartling, but I would say that it is very, very naive to say that we should stick to a past where the challenges were quite, quite others. So let me just ask the rapporteur directly: does the rapporteur recognise that we have massive problems of integration in Danish society at this stage?
ParlaMint-DK_20171128153437	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128153439	Well, at least I recognize that. There are very big problems. I believe that in some areas things are going better than in the past, but there are major challenges. That is what there are with ghettoisation, with cultural tensions, religious tensions, etc. There is. But what I'm just saying is that you're not gonna get the refugee problem buried by just turning your back on it and saying that we have to deal solely with the Danish problems. And my point is that the 500 quota refugees would not, of course, make it impossible to solve the problems of integration if they were to be taken seriously what you do not want in the current government, where you would rather conduct symbolic policy and do different stunts so that you can get some profile that looks tough in relation to the electorate. That is what this is about, not integration. If you took it seriously, I have no doubt you could handle this.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128153539	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128153540	That is where I believe that it is our responsibility as politicians in the first place to protect Denmark and protect Danish society. And if it is the case that the rapporteur recognises that we have major integration problems, then I think it is quite irresponsible to say that these integration problems are solved by bringing even more people here from a foreign culture which will also have difficulty integrating. That was more of a comment than a question.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128153609	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128153610	Well, according to the Rules of Procedure, you can also have comments, that does not have to be questions. As far as protecting Denmark is concerned, I think that is where things are going very wrong for the Left. So, a Poul Hartling was well aware that protecting Denmark is also a matter of our commitment to the United Nations. The best safeguard for a small country is to have international cooperation, and that is why Denmark, originally at least, has supported the UN so strongly. But with the present generation of politicians, for example. The Left seems to have little understanding of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128153647	With that, we thank the SF rapporteur. Then it is the Conservative rapporteur, and that is Mr. Naser Khader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128153655	Thank you. I'd like to repeat a story. I told it earlier here from the platform. Here for approx. Three years ago I was in Lebanon, in Beirut, and met a Syrian woman who was selling cigarettes, kleenex, chewing gum on the street to survive. She had fled to neighboring Lebanon with her three daughters. She was selling these things to survive. I would really like her to come to Denmark with her three daughters who were well-educated and well-informed. But they do not have the opportunity to come to Denmark like others. They simply cannot afford it. The way one gets to Denmark and gets asylum is hammering unsolidarian. It's people who have connections, it's people who have the money. That's between $10,000 and $20,000 apiece. person. I do not think it is fair to those who do not have that money. I therefore believe that we should completely reverse this, reform the asylum reform, say no to those who come themselves, because in this way we will stop the activity of smugglers. Today, you can make more money by smuggling people than drugs. Trafficking in human beings is being taken over by the Islamist movements, and in this way we are helping indirectly to finance the Islamist movements by accepting that those who come here come by means of the traffickers. Besides that, they are at risk of sexual abuse. They risk drowning in the Mediterranean, they risk being exploited, so I think we should work towards an asylum stop. We stop people who come here themselves, in return we have to pick up people from the refugee camps. That is why we are basically in favour of the quota system. There you get people from the camps, you get families so there is no need for family reunification afterwards, and then you know that they are people who really need them. And we would like to increase the quota number on the day we stop spontaneous asylum seekers. But when we think it is good for quota refugees, why do we support the bill? We do this because our welfare societies are challenged on the economy, integration and social and economic cohesion. In fact, we have granted asylum to many, many more than a country like the United States, which is many times larger than us. It is important that we have to deal with that challenge again, and it is then up to the people to decide who and how many we have room to receive. In the Conservative People's Party, we believe that the quota refugee scheme is a good way of distributing and protecting refugees. This must be the way we do it in the future... the only way we do it and the number needs to be increased. But that must not happen until the day we make an asylum stop. Right now, we need a breathing space. That is why, in September, the government introduced a stop for quota refugees. Today's draft law makes it clear that it is primarily up to the government to assess how many quota refugees we can take, according to developments. Once we in Europe and Denmark have managed our external borders and stopped the number of spontaneous asylum seekers, we can again welcome more quota refugees. There is, in fact, an upper limit on how many we can cope with, and that is why we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128154053	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Langballe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128154056	It is, in fact, just to resume the discussion we have had here in the Folketing. I therefore agree with the rapporteur that an asylum stop for spontaneous refugees should surely be what we were discussing here today. It would be amazing if we could get there. In fact, I think it is necessary, also historically, if Denmark is not to suffer irreparable damage. What I want to arrest is this authority given to the Minister to take them into elastic measurements, that is to say it could be 500, it could be 1,000, it could be 2 000. I just do not think that it is good enough that a cat door has been introduced into a bill, which then gives the Minister the authority to simply expand the border if an agreement is made, for example. If the Danish minister makes an agreement with the German minister and Berlin, right? Then we can take a few extras if the situation that happened in the past happened, so simply give it gas in terms of expanding the number. I think that is simply the wrong way to go in the current situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128154201	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128154202	I do not think we are authorising the Minister to do so. I refuse to believe that it is going to happen, that you just come home from the European Union and say that we must now increase the quota. What we are empowering is that the Minister has that opportunity in very, very special and exceptional situations. It's like what we experienced under pressure in September 2015, where we gave room for that opportunity. But that does not mean that the opportunity is being exploited, and that is why I am very confident that it will not happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128154240	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128154241	This is exactly the example from 2015, when more than 20,000 refugees arrived, and at the same time the Prime Minister opened up to us that we could take 1,000 extra quota refugees. That was quite wrong in the situation we were in. And that is the situation that I would like to avoid, and that is why I believe that we will actually have a discussion down here in the Parliamentary Chamber without it being just an authorisation for each minister to raise the border or move it up or down.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128154316	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128154317	As I remember it, the Prime Minister said: we will, we will take 1,000 if the other countries • the Eastern European countries that refused to take a distribution take their share. But that hasn't happened. We have not accepted the 1,000, as was said. That is why I say that this will only happen in exceptional circumstances, and I think it is okay for the Minister to have that opportunity.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128154348	We thank the Conservative rapporteur. Then we have finished the rapporteur's series and I give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128154402	Thank you to the rapporteur. We have been around a long time already, it might be said, in the discussion here. Denmark has a long tradition of assuming responsibility for some of the world's refugees, and we must continue to do so. Among other things, it has to be done. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done on this subject. It is therefore the government's view that Denmark must continue to re-inhabit refugees and thus also support the global resettlement effort, which applies to part of the world's refugees in the future. However, we should not take so many refugees that this threatens the cohesion of our society and there is no doubt that in recent years the number of new refugees has faced our society with a number of challenges, among others. integration. We have a responsibility to ensure that Denmark is linked economically, socially and culturally. In this context, it is crucial that the number of refugees re-inhabited annually in Denmark can be determined with the greatest possible flexibility. The draft law therefore provides for the introduction of a new quota system in which the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration decides, on the basis of an overall balance of social and economic capacity, how many foreigners will be re-inhabited in Denmark. Following the bill, the minister in office may at any time decide that up to 500 quota refugees will be re-inhabited annually in Denmark. However, in a very special situation, the annual number of quota refugees could exceed 500 people. However, it is only in exceptional cases where an international agreement is reached with the aim of limiting the flow of refugees to Denmark or Europe. In assessing whether there is sufficient social and economic capacity in society for the resettlement of refugees, emphasis should be placed, in particular, on: the number of spontaneous asylum seekers who have arrived in Denmark in previous years, and also the number of residence permits granted to foreigners in previous years, i.e. primarily how many have been granted asylum and how many have subsequently been reunited. In addition, attention should also be paid to how the foreigners who are already in Denmark are actually doing. Are they at work? Do they know the language? In other words, are they part of the ordinary Danish everyday life? With the bill, we ensure that we can strike the right balance between the number of refugees that Denmark receives as a whole and our ability to integrate those who are here. For the number of refugees and family members, the success of integration is important. And successful integration is crucial to whether Denmark can continue to be a good and secure society that is linked, both economically, but also socially and culturally. Finally, I would like to thank the rapporteurs who have supported the draft law as it stands here today. And then I can hear that we will also have a discussion until the third reading, and that is of course quite fine, and I will have to answer all the questions that may be.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128154745	At least there's gonna be a few here. Sir. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128154750	Thank you. If the government takes the view that it should be able to take between 0 and up to 500 quota refugees in one year at any time, why should there be an exception in which the minister is given the opportunity to depart from the general rule and receive even more quota refugees?
ParlaMint-DK_20171128154808	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128154810	This must be done in the very special situation of concluding some kind of international agreement in order to limit the general flow to Denmark and to Europe. We can see it with the EU-Turkey agreement. It is an agreement that has, of course, limited the flow to Europe. And if we now find ourselves in a situation where an agreement is reached at international level to close down, so that only or primarily quota refugees come here, then we can go in and regulate the number and in that situation take a few more. But it must be a very special situation, and it is not the case that the Prime Minister in office can go to Berlin at any time and agree something with the Germans. This is a much wider perspective we are talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128154905	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128154907	I find it interesting that the Minister mentions the EU-Turkey agreement, because it has not closed off the influx, to use the Minister's own words. After all, a lot of asylum seekers and migrants are still coming into Europe. So this is an example of an agreement that has been made, and I understand that if similar agreements are made, making such an agreement could be used as an argument for being able to say as a minister: then we will receive more than 500 UN quota refugees. I would be very uneasy if this minister or another minister could refer to the EU-Turkey agreement and say that, in the light of the agreement which was intended to limit the flow, we could accept more UN quota refugees. This will actually mean that the Ministry can arrive at a very special situation today and that the Minister or another minister will then be able to decide that we should accept more UN quota refugees. So should the answer be understood to mean that we already have a very special situation today? After all, we have an agreement on the EU-Turkey agreement, which was the Minister's example. I am sorry to say, therefore, that there is reason to be a little concerned about this draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128155015	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128155017	I think I said something in the sense that it should be an EU-Turket agreement that closes off. And it has to be said that the EU-Turkey agreement has actually drastically reduced the influx. But no, it is not the case that we already have some particular situation today which means that we have to take over 500 quota refugees. Now I'm a little consoled by the fact that I can hear that Mr. Martin Henriksen, every time he mentions the Minister, also says: or a minister other than the one who is there now. I am comforted by that, because I assume it is because Mr. Martin Henriksen has some confidence that it will not happen as it now stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128155056	The next question is Mr. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128155059	I just want to keep going where we left off and where I think the interesting thing is. I mean, I'm having a little trouble with this, because it may be that the government thinks this is very important, but I really just think that the discussion has been conducted in the wrong way. After all, what is crucial is to stop asylum in the case of spontaneous refugees. That is absolutely crucial. And those of the rapporteurs I have heard, with whom I usually agree, agree, at least in part. And then I think it might well be that the opportunity was there to actually put an end to asylum. I mean, if we had made this scheme for spontaneous refugees, it would have been a good arrangement. I just think that this authorisation within the quota system, as well as being able to increase the number in specific cases, which is something that the Minister himself can define, is problematic.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128155202	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128155204	In the perfect world, it would actually be the case that it was closed off, so you only had quota refugees. I think that would be the best of all worlds except for the world, of course, where there are no refugees, but it probably does not seem. Because then you would be able to control it, and I really think we all want that. But until then we are living in the real world as it is now, and it is so that you can take up to 500 quota refugees. And that's what this proposal is all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128155242	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128155243	Yes, and when we finally have this discussion, it's just that we're asking why this authority is even there. Because it seems that there is a minister who would like to be able to go out every once in a while and be big in the battle and say that then we take just a little extra. It could be 1,000, it could be 1,500, it could be 2,000, it could be 5,000, it could be 10,000. And that's why, having this discussion down here, we're just trying to figure out why that authority is included and if there's no limit. Well, I think it's a little uncertain.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128155324	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128155325	The reason, as has also been said not only by me but also by other rapporteurs, is that we can find ourselves in a situation where, for example, we can find ourselves. could conclude some kind of international agreement that would close you off. So it is quite real to say that if nobody else comes to Denmark now, you will be able to take x number of quota refugees instead. I think that is very real, and that is why I think it is quite right to include it in this agreement. And that's the only thing in this. Because I simply do not remember that otherwise I have been accused of having to conduct such a kind of lax immigration policy. And now I can see that the left has highlighted in large numbers, and I think that the discussion will now lead us to another camp.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128155413	I don't know if it's a big deal. For the time being, I have only one entry here, and that is Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128155419	Yeah, that's me, as the minister refers to as in droves. In fact, I have a slightly technical question, because there was such a little confusion when Mr. Mattias Tesfaye was on the platform. I would just like the Minister to confirm that today a minister is not in a position to put an end to actual quota refugees, because the Minister is only competent, if I may say so, to move around the quota refugees within a three-year period, and that if you want to give a minister the power to completely stop taking quota refugees or to make a stop, which is four-year, five-year, six-year or seven-year, and continue to do so yourself, this requires a change of law. In other words, what this bill is about is that we can say that it is not enough to move around the 500 annual quota refugees within a three-year period, but that the Minister is now being given the opportunity to completely stop taking quota refugees. And the reason why we adopt the bill has nothing to do with agreements with the UN, but that we have to change Danish law to give the minister that competence.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128155522	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128155524	On the subject of mass payments, it can certainly be said that Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen will soon become more, if that is the case. And congratulations. But having said that, it is true that if this bill was not here and if we do not adopt this bill, then we will have to take the quota refugees we had actually signed up to take. That would be the consequence. If this bill falls, you will have to take the share of quota refugees that we had previously signed in, so that is to say those there about 490 and then the 500 for which it is actually written this year. So that's correct.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128155605	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128155607	Thank you for that clarification. And so we can also conclude that the current government would not be able to decide to stop taking quota refugees if the Social Democrats did not support this bill, because I understand that the Danish People's Party is critical. So that means that the only way that the Minister and the government can ensure that Denmark takes zero quota refugees is by the Social Democrats voting in favour of the bill we are first considering today.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128155640	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128155642	If this bill is not voted through, quota refugees will have to be taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128155650	The next question is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128155653	Thank you. I have a question too. The minister was out earlier today at Ritzau, where she said, as I read it at least, that if you want to increase the quota... provided this bill is passed... you have to in parliament, while saying no is a unilateral decision by the minister. But that is not what is in the bill now, is it not? What is in the draft law now is that the Minister is given the power to both turn down and turn up, if that is the case?
ParlaMint-DK_20171128155726	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128155726-2	What is in the draft law here is that the minister in office can at any time sign up to the 500. If we are to have more than 500, we need a very special, extraordinary situation, and that can be done, for example. It is true that some form of international agreement is being concluded which will stop or limit the influx to Denmark and to Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128155755	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128155756	Thank you. In other words, it is still a unilateral ministerial decision, that is to say, both to turn it up and turn it down? I am in agreement with what the Minister says, namely that there is a special, exceptional situation, but it will still be a one-sided ministerial decision, and that means that you do not have to be in the Chamber in order to be able to turn it up, if you may say so.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128155818	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128155820	Yes!
ParlaMint-DK_20171128155825	With this very short and certainly precise answer, which certainly promotes speed here, and as no one else has asked for the floor, the debate has ended. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128155845	The debate is open. The first speaker is Mr. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128155908	The Social Democratic and Radical Government reached an agreement 3-4 years ago with the Liberal Alliance, the Left, the SF, the Conservative People's Party and the Danish People's Party on changes in the rules for recruiting international labour. In this context, we decided to create a new three-year pilot scheme for foreign entrepreneurs. We would very much like foreigners with good ideas to come to Denmark and realize them. It can strengthen the Danish economy and secure jobs for both high and low. We are therefore very pleased that we can see today that the scheme has been a success. We are also pleased that the government is prepared to continue the scheme and extend it slightly, otherwise it would close to New Year and that would be a pity. The Social Democratic Party is in favour of strict foreign policy and we have therefore participated in a number of tightenings of the Aliens Act since 1986. The many tightenings also entail the risk that Denmark will be too closed against our surroundings, and that would be harmful. That is why it is important for us to ensure constantly that it is still possible for foreigners to come to the country and contribute to our community, and this arrangement is one of several that ensures it. The draft law states that the present government wants to increase the ceiling for the number of people who can join together for an application so that three people can use the start-up scheme. In the same vein, it is proposed to increase the quota from 50 to 75 per year. In addition, a number of other minor adjustments to the legislation have been proposed. We think that all of this makes sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128160037	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128160046	Thank you. In 2014, a number of parties entered into an agreement on foreign labour. The agreement has thus been terminated in the last parliamentary elections, and since then a majority in the Danish Parliament has adopted a number of amendments which, in our view, have tightened the rules with regard to foreign labour. As something new, the agreement included a proposal to introduce a 3-year trial scheme, "Start-up Denmark" as it is so well known, for foreign entrepreneurs who want to start self-employment in Denmark. A quota was set so that during the trial period a maximum of 50 entrepreneurs can enter the scheme annually and, in line with the previous bill, the government is curiously proposing to raise another quota here. The start-up scheme entered into force on 1 January 2015 and expires here at the end of the year. For the sake of the Danish People's Party, the scheme could actually end here. We have not changed our attitude. We were also sceptical when the proposal first came on the table, and the compromise became so that a quota or a ceiling was set for the scheme and then it was allowed to run for three years. We still see no need for the scheme. We were skeptical then, and we have continued to do so. That is why the parties also agreed that there should be that ceiling and that the scheme should be temporary. I find it difficult to argue that the scheme has contributed to the Danish economy on a large scale. It can be said that, on the contrary, the scheme contributes to the myth that Denmark would almost stop if it were not for the foreign labour force. The start-up scheme is currently subject to a quota under which a maximum of 50 foreigners can enter it. And as the bill says, the quota has not even been exhausted in the next three years of the scheme, which is why there is no need to expand the quota. In any case, the Danish People's Party does not see the need to continue the scheme, and we do not see the need to extend it so that more people can talk about it. That is why it is our starting point that we are voting against, and I call on the government to consider how we can do more for Danish entrepreneurs rather than for this, which can probably be described as nonsense.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128160250	Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Marcus Knuth, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128160257	The government wants Denmark to continue to be a pioneering country in innovation. It is particularly important in a small economy like ours that we are able to attract skilled international entrepreneurs who can create successful businesses and thus contribute to growth and jobs in Denmark. Here the start-up scheme is a very important tool, as it can potentially bring growth, knowledge of new markets and an international network that will also benefit the Danish entrepreneurial environment. The first period of the start-up scheme has shown that the administrative system is a well-functioning one. The adjustments the government wants to make are based on, among other things: experience from the Danish Agency for International Recruitment and Integration. First of all, it has become apparent that the number of a maximum of two persons who can apply for a residence permit under the same business plan is a barrier to attracting some of the best. The Left therefore proposes raising the ceiling to three people, as tech companies in particular typically consist of three or four people. An extension from two to three people could potentially push the annual established quota of a maximum of 50 foreigners, which is why we propose raising the quota to 75. The Management Board's report also shows that the period of validity of approved business plans is too short for foreigners wishing to reside to be able to establish themselves. Therefore, the government wants to support the skilled and innovative foreigners who get approval of their business plan. We do, among other things. by giving eligible applicants an additional 3 months to plan their establishment in Denmark. Finally, the government proposes clarification of the Aliens Act, so that the Secretariat of the Danish Business Authority can reject flawed business plans during the screening process, and so that foreigners by a rejection cannot complain to another authority. This proposal should be seen in the light of the sometimes very deficient applications screened by the Danish Business Authority. The purpose of the screening is to ensure that the consultants in the expert panel only spend their time on realistic and serious business ideas with development potential. Finally, I should like to add that, as a result of screening, a refusal does not of course rule out the possibility of re-engaging. The adjustments the bill makes to the start-up scheme will ensure that Denmark can continue to attract innovative and qualified foreigners that are important to our economy. That is why the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128160518	There is just one brief comment to Mr. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128160520	Thank you. I can read in the bill that it is incredibly important that we continue with this scheme because it has contributed to Danish economy and Danish growth. Of course, things have always contributed to that. I don't know if sir. Marcus Knuth could explain how this scheme has contributed to Danish economy and to Danish growth. How many jobs have been generated using this scheme, where Danes have entered the labour market and have got something to do? There must be some figures for this, since the government writes in the bill that this scheme contributes to Danish economy and growth in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128160552	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128160554	In the Left we are very, very sunny about the fact that everything that contributes to our economy is positive and that people who come here to work and contribute are something positive, even if they are foreigners, and even if it is not exactly what the Danish People's Party might want. In Denmark we have a very, very large and very, very active entrepreneurial environment, and this entrepreneurial environment has a close, close collaboration with other entrepreneurs from all over the world. So that we can be better at attracting entrepreneurs who come here, working with Danish entrepreneurs and contributing to our economy, I see only as a positive thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128160632	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128160633	I've never really understood this because just people can get a job, then they can come to Denmark. I've never really understood that point of view, because there are a lot of people who can come to Denmark. After all, there are many people out in the big world who can work and thank God for it. But I would just like to know, as one writes in the bill, that it has contributed to the Danish economy and growth etc., how exactly it has contributed. Because you have an arrangement with which to bring people to Denmark, and they can come up with some criteria and some suggestions on how to start a business in Denmark, and when you established it it was on the grounds that it was important and that it could generate growth and create jobs in Danish society. Now it is written in the bill that it contributes positively to the Danish economy, and then I think it might be relevant to get the figures on the table. How's this arrangement, for example? the contribution to creating jobs in Denmark, not to mention people who already live here, i.e. Danes?
ParlaMint-DK_20171128160720	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128160725	First of all, let me make it clear that everyone who comes here is getting a job. Of course, we make very, very high demands on exactly what work you come here to contribute, and that depends on what part of the world you come from. So, of course, we make some demands. It is not the case that everyone can just come here and take any work. In addition, to respond directly to the question, we see that there is a demand for this. In other words, there are entrepreneurs who come here and contribute, and I see this in itself as positive. At the same time, we are tightening up the system by saying that the inadequate applications we have seen can simply lead to a refusal now, that is. That the people don't come here.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128160806	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. And we move on to Mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128160819	In the Enhedslisten, we cannot immediately support the proposed legislation. It is not because we have anything at all against foreign entrepreneurs coming to Denmark, but because we simply do not find that in the proposed bill or in the background material something has been done that just looks like a serious evaluation of this scheme for recent years. And that is why we are very much in line with the critical comments that have been made in the consultation responses from the trade union organisations, especially from the LO and HK. There are a large number of questions that have simply not been answered. Has this scheme led to the creation of more innovative companies which have contributed positively to employment in Denmark, as the previous questioner mentioned? How many of these business plans have ever been implemented in the establishment of a company? How many of these companies have survived and how many have gone down? To the extent that companies have been set up, there have then been some negative consequences, for example: in relation to pay conditions, the opportunities and investment opportunities of entrepreneurs living in them? Have there been any other secondary negative effects of this? What is the state of the working environment in the companies established within the scheme? I think it is reasonable to ask for answers before making a trial system permanent. I guess the idea of an experimental system is that you try something and then then investigate whether the experiment has had the effects that you hoped it would have. And this has not been sufficiently done in this case. There are several other rapporteurs who have mentioned this, and we will probably also hear that in the further debate that it is important to ensure that people can come up with good ideas for Denmark, skilled labour, innovation, etc. And it is hardly possible to disagree with that, but that is why it is reasonable to ask ourselves and have some analyses done by: What is really needed? In what industries? To what extent? And that is simply what is missing from this proposal. It is also the case that we already have the free movement of labour in EU and EEA countries, which guarantee freedom of establishment for companies from those countries, and that is where we are talking about an upland of hundreds of millions of people. I think it is also part of this discussion that unfortunately we have seen a somewhat worrying development, I think, in relation to bankruptcy and the cessation of business among, for example. entrepreneurship. Really, a lot of people are closed with really, really high costs for society resulting. This is something that has been discussed in recent weeks because some journalists have looked at it. And you might well ask yourself: is the way to open up the way to the creation of even more such projects? But again: if it was the case that there was a clear basis for decision-making and if it were the case that there was a clear evaluation of how this has worked in recent years, then it could well be that we would be in favour of it. But, frankly, we find it rather irresponsible that we have not evaluated what has actually come of it and what it may have had with both positive and negative consequences. That is why, as a starting point, we are sceptical about the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128161144	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Laura Lindahl, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128161153	The proposal here must continue the start-up scheme and make some minor changes to it. The scheme allows foreign entrepreneurs to come to Denmark and try to start their business here. If you want to have access to the scheme, it today requires your business plans to be approved by the immigration authorities, and this is something that is being changed by this proposal. For good reasons, the immigration authorities have no specific competence to assess new business ideas. That is why we think it makes very good sense to set up a panel of experts for this. In general, we are positive about the possibility of getting here and starting business. It is good for Denmark if people come here who can help create growth and employment, but one must of course also be wary that some people can come here who cannot contribute. But in relation to that part, we are quite confident, since the criteria for becoming part of the system are, as you know, that we come up with a viable idea. At the same time, the scheme is limited to relatively few people. That is why we can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128161258	Thank you for that, thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128161314	Thank you. It is the government's bill to continue the "Start-up Denmark" scheme that we are here to deal with today. It would like to continue the three-year trial scheme "Start-up Denmark' and at the same time to make some adjustments on the basis of experience to date. I would like to begin by saying that the alternative supports the proposal. After all, the purpose of the "Start-up Denmark" scheme is to make Denmark a more attractive country for innovative international entrepreneurs, which can create new businesses and thus contribute to growth and jobs in Denmark. We are in the alternative positive towards actions that make it easier for international innovative entrepreneurs to start business in Denmark. We might miss such a real evaluation and examination of whether the scheme is fully in line with its purpose, not least in order to ensure that the adjustments that are now being made in this draft law are sufficient also to enable us to examine whether we could do even more to attract international entrepreneurs. We want Denmark to be very ambitious in this area, because we want Denmark to be a pioneering country for entrepreneurship and social inventiveness and sustainability. We think that the future of Denmark should be far more entrepreneurial and efficient and creative than it is today, and therefore it is important that we can attract international entrepreneurs. In those words, I shall support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128161441	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128161447	Thank you. In the Radical Left, too, we warmly support this bill. And to those who are very concerned about lists, I would say that it must be noted as a relaxation. We think that's really good. It is a continuation of the SR government's recruitment strategy, which we had a broad majority in favour of and then included the Danish People's Party, but I must note that they are not so concerned about that anymore. But we are really glad that this arrangement continues. We need a lot more of that, that is to say, the ability to recruit the very best. There is not so much of that, on the contrary, at the moment, so let us welcome the few bright points that exist. It's this bill one of.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128161535	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128161543	After all, we were part of the agreement on the start-up scheme at the time. And as a starting point, we're positive about this arrangement. However, it is true, as has been said and also shown, for example, by the hearing from the LO, that one may need to have a little more clarity as to whether it has worked as intended. I cannot say how much greater clarity can be obtained here, but at least I think that there is reason for us to have a discussion with the government on this in committee after first reading here, so that it will at least be able to argue a little better that it makes sense to continue this system. As I said, we are basically positive, but we would like to have a few more facts on the table.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128161643	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mr. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128161652	We fully agree with the government that Denmark should be open to foreign entrepreneurs. Growth, innovation and development take place in interaction between countries with different areas of knowledge and qualities. Should a knowledgeable startuper from Silicon Valley have an idea to make use of Denmark's clean water, stable and green electricity supply or high degree of digitalisation, our alien system must of course provide room for it. The scheme has already been running for a period of time. Of course, it is not possible to already assess whether it has been successful in relation to the long term, but the system works administratively and the purpose is reasonable. We must continue this system so that we get as much qualified labour as possible for Denmark. We in the Conservative People's Party therefore support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128161759	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128161809	Thank you for receiving this bill. The government wants Denmark to be an open country for foreign entrepreneurs who want to start business in Denmark, and with the introduction of the start-up scheme back in 2015, we got a whole new type of residence scheme for foreign entrepreneurs. In the past, it was the alien authorities which had to assess whether Denmark had a particular economic interest in the establishment of a company, but the alien authorities have no special conditions for assessing this. Therefore, a large majority in the Danish Parliament changed the scheme, so it is now instead an expert panel with experience in evaluating business plans and advising entrepreneurial companies to say yes or no to a business idea. This is a new and far better way of dealing with matters. The government wants to continue the scheme so that Denmark can continue to attract skilled, innovative foreign entrepreneurs. The aim is, of course, to create new successful companies that can contribute to growth and jobs in Denmark. The administrative setup is functioning well. Whether the long-term objective of new successful companies is being met is still a little too early to say, as several people have also mentioned here, because the scheme is still new. When we have more experience over a longer period of time, we will of course be able to follow up on the longer-term effects, among others. the contribution to growth and employment in Denmark. But for the time being I would like to thank you for the support the proposal has so far enjoyed in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128162004	And we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128162018	The debate is open. Sir. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128162029	With this bill, the authorities will be able to refuse to issue travel documents to foreigners in cases where the applicant has been issued several times in recent years on the grounds that it has been lost. It is a basic good rule of the Refugee Convention that states are obliged to issue travel documents to foreigners if they cannot obtain passports from their own country. It has helped a lot of people over the years. But we must also recognise that there are unfortunately cases where foreigners repeatedly ask for new travel documents from the Danish authorities. In the past, social democracy has asked about the trade in identity documents, and we have wanted this to be tightened up so that, on the one hand, we maintain that people are entitled to identification and, on the other hand, we avoid fraud and trafficking in such documents. With this specific proposal, a foreigner must be able to be denied travel documents if the person has been issued twice in the last five years with new documents on the grounds that they have previously been lost. We can support that. The draft law also provides for the re-imposition of penalties if information is refused to provide that would provide a better basis for the authorities to assess a case in the field of aliens. I must admit that I already thought that such cases could be punished if they did not help to solve them better. We therefore have no problem supporting this part of the bill either. That makes sense. In those words, we look forward to the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128162153	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mr. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128162202	Thank you. I can start by stating that the Danish People's Party supports the bill. In our view, there is an increasing need to control the documents used by foreigners to enter and leave Denmark. The rules in force make it difficult for the authorities to combat the abuse of foreign travel documents, for example by a foreigner. sells its travel ID to others so that they can use it instead of the person for whom the documents were actually intended. The purpose of the bill is to ensure that the immigration authorities may refuse to issue travel documentation to foreigners in cases where there is suspicion of abuse, because the applicants have been issued with new documentation in recent years on a number of occasions, including: on the grounds typically given that it has been lost. We think the draft law is common sense, and of course we support it. However, in committee we will be asking about the scope of the draft law, including whether there is a need to extend the powers of the authorities to include foreign travel documents in a number of cases. With these comments, however, we shall vote in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128162305	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mr. Marcus Knuth, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128162311	As I think I have said from up here many times before, we in the Left believe that it is absolutely essential that we have an understanding of which foreigners enter and leave our country. If we don't, it's a potential security risk. That is why we politicians must provide the authorities with the necessary tools so that they can determine the identity of foreigners. We find such a tool in this bill. The aim is to strengthen the control efforts in the field of aliens by allowing the refusal to issue travel documents to refugees and foreign passports to foreigners if there is a suspicion of abuse. This suspicion isn't just caught out of thin air, it's from the police and from the immigration authorities. The abuse can, for example: be in the form of loans or sales of identity and travel documents for other persons to use them. The suspicion typically occurs when a foreigner's travel ID several times just disappears within a short time. The authorities therefore clearly consider that abuse is taking place. The problem is that there is not much they can do about it at the moment. They may refuse to issue travel documents only if it is deemed necessary for security reasons or for reasons of the reputation of the State. In the Left, we agree with the proposed amendment, in which an applicant may be refused a travel document if, within a period of five years, he or she has been issued with a new travel document two or more times for the reason that he or she has lost it. However, we would like to point out that it is, of course, a balancing act, because it is a restriction of personal freedom if travel documents are denied and therefore cannot be moved. Having said that, however, we have confidence in the authorities' assessment. In addition, account shall be taken of the so-called special circumstances which justify the non-refusal of a new issue, such as: if foreigners can prove that the passport has actually been lost in a non-suspectable manner. The draft law also contains a number of other points, but we in the Left have no comment on them. For us, the most important thing is that this bill provides the authorities with a tool in which, if there are suspicions of abuse, they can refuse to issue new travel documents to foreigners. This strengthens our security and control, and it can have a preventive effect, so that, hopefully, fewer people try to abuse the issuance of travel documents. That is why the Left supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128162536	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128162543	The aim of this proposal, as the previous rapporteurs have also explained, is to combat abuse in the issuing of foreign passports. Specifically, the government will introduce a rule that if a person has been issued a new foreign passport twice in the last 5 years because the old one has been lost, then the person cannot receive a new foreign passport for the following 5 years. And the consequences for the individual are obviously quite far-reaching, and as a starting point the person will then be prevented from leaving Denmark for 5 years. In the Enhedslist, we fully agree that the misuse of ID documents must be combated. On the other hand, legal certainty is important, and one cannot deny that an honest person who has not cheated anyone and does not plan to cheat anyone can be so unfortunate to lose a foreign passport and also to lose a foreign passport twice. The fact that a person has twice reported his foreign passport as a missing person is therefore not proof that he or she has committed abuse. Another element of the bill is the introduction of an option to block a foreign passport or a convention passport if the authorities find that the person also has a nationality passport. And a third element is that you will make it a criminal offence to refuse to provide information on another person's foreign case. For all these elements it is true that we must consider whether the fight against abuse is so important that we will accept that the consequences can also befall some people who have not intended to commit abuse. In the Enhedslisten, we have not finally made up our minds about the draft law, and we currently have some questions that we will be asking during the committee procedure, among other things. to the extent of abuse.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128162738	Thank you to the rapporteur. And we move on to Mrs Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128162746	Thank you. After all, the previous rapporteurs have explained this bill very well, and I would just like to add that the Liberal Alliance is in agreement with the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128162756	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128162802	Thank you. We are here today to consider the government's proposal to introduce increased controls in connection with the issuing of travel documents to foreigners, and with this proposal one would like, among other things, to. A number of provisions will be introduced to allow the National Authority to refuse the issue of travel documents to foreigners, and this will be done in cases where there is suspicion of abuse and where compelling reasons for the security of the State, public order or the reputation of the State are involved, and criminal sanctions will then be reinstated for third parties who do not provide information for the treatment of asylum cases if they have information in the case in question. In the alternative, we fully agree that it is important to prevent and combat the misuse of Danish issued travel documents, and this applies both to holders of Danish passports and to holders of convention passports or foreign passports. On the other hand, it is also extremely important to ensure freedom of movement, and what is happening with this bill is that the immigration authorities will be given the power to refuse to issue travel documents to foreigners in the event of abuse. When, then, is the abuse involved? As the observations show, there is a suspicion of abuse if you have applied for travel documents twice within a period of 5 years on the grounds that your travel document has been lost, unless the applicant can prove that the travel document has actually been lost. As a result, the burden of proof is transferred from the authority to the person seeking new identification, and that is enough, as I see it, for the Foreigners' Board to refuse to issue new travel documents. There is also a five-year waiting period, and that is a long time, that is, one cannot deny that not everyone loses their legitimacy of evil will, if that is the case. So in the alternative, we have not made up our mind either. We also have a number of questions we would like to ask the Minister, among others. on the practical implications of compelling considerations of State security and public order and whether it should be interpreted. So we look forward to the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128163022	Thank you to the rapporteur. And we move on to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128163029	Thank you. This bill strengthens the control of travel ID for foreigners in Denmark. We support this in the Radical Left as a starting point. We know that the traffickers are using people in the most serious way to obtain false credentials that they can sell. And we want to fight that. But we have a number of outstanding issues to which we need answers. What is meant, for example, by: More precisely, can the authorities refuse to issue passports for the sake of the state's reputation? That is something that the Institute for Human Rights also states in their hearing response. I am simply in doubt; are we talking here about the slightly more up-to-date concept of relations with other countries? I know that the concepts are used differently and that something is a little older than anything else. The Institute of Human Rights also asks in their hearing answer how the rules on witness exemption in the Code of Procedure are related to the bill. I hope the Minister will be able to explain this. And otherwise, of course, I ask it as a question in committee. I mean, the rules can, for example. What is the Commission's position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances? Several of the consultations also call for a little more precise and verifiable criteria as to when abuse is involved. And I'd love to see that, too. Clear criteria are important when we are dealing with such an intrusive legislative proposal as this, where identity papers will be taken from people. Basically, I also need a slightly clearer explanation of why it is that the existing rules are not sufficient to combat the misuse of travel documents. It may well be that this is the case and then we would like to support it here, but I just do not think I can find the clear argument and I think it should be clear in such serious cases. So we're positively waiting. However, in conclusion, I would like to mention that Mrs Josephine Fock asked the question whether it would be up to the person who is suspected, as well as to document how his identity records have been lost. And I would just like to hope that the Minister will confirm that it is the provisions of the refugee convention that apply here, in other words that it is for the sake of state security to include credentials. There must be serious reasons for this, and not just the fact that they have been lost.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128163336	Thank you to the rapporteur. And we move on to Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128163345	We agree with the premise behind this bill that it is a problem with false passports and false credentials and that the state is therefore faced with some challenges, that is, how it can be dealt with, and that it is therefore also reasonable to discuss how to have more effective control mechanisms in relation to it. That is also why we are, as a starting point, positive about this bill. There are some legal security issues, some definitional ambiguities, perhaps in the draft law, which have also been pointed out in various of the consultation responses that have come and which we need to clarify. So we will wait with our final position until this bill has been discussed in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128163449	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we move on to Mr. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128163454	We must take care of Denmark and we want control over who crosses our borders. That is why we must do everything we can to prevent the misuse of passports. As it is today, it is possible to re-sell your passport for use by others. There is a gap in the legislation and it must be closed as far as possible. That is why we support the Minister's proposal that in future the immigration authorities should be able to refuse to issue special travel documents to foreigners in cases where there is suspicion of misuse of passports. We also support the Minister's proposal that it should be possible to block Danish-issued passports if a foreigner holds both a Danish passport and a national passport and does not wish to deposit his or her one passport with the Foreigners' Agency. All in all, the sensible proposal is against passport abuse, and of course we support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128163559	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then it's the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128163606	Thank you. And thank you for receiving the bill here. The aim of the draft law is, after all, simply to combat the abuse of passports, as several people have also said, that is to say. passport issued to foreigners and thus strengthen the control efforts in the field of aliens. The Danish passports, which are today issued to foreigners, are technically advanced and relatively difficult to fake, and that is of course the positive part of this, but at the same time we see both here in Denmark, but also in other European countries, an increase in what is called lokalike abuse, that is. abuse, where a passport is used by a person other than the rightful owner of the passport, typically by that person borrowing or simply selling the passport to another person. And that means that people associated with, for example. organised crime or terrorist organisations can travel in and out of the country relatively simply and without necessarily knowing their proper identity. That is why we must do everything we can to combat this abuse and to strengthen the control efforts in the field of aliens. Today it is relatively easy for a foreigner in Denmark to obtain a new passport, and at the same time there is no upper limit on how many times a foreigner can obtain a new passport if for example. the passport previously issued has been lost. And that simply cannot be done. We have a great need to know who crosses our borders and we need to know the identity of the foreigners who are already staying here in Denmark. If we do not know the identity of foreigners, it could potentially pose a security risk. With the bill we are discussing today, the government is proposing to provide a legal basis for the alien authorities to refuse to issue special travel documents to foreigners in cases where there is suspicion of abuse. As I said, the suspicion of abuse can, for example: if, in recent years, a new travel document has been issued to the alien on several occasions on the grounds that the travel document has been lost. The bill also means that it will be possible to block a Danish issued passport in the Central Paregister if the alien has both a Danish issued passport and a national issued passport and the alien does not want to deposit one passport with the Foreigners' Board. With the bill, we are limiting the number of passports in circulation and thus the possibility of abuse. However, I am not so naive that I believe that this bill can put an end to any abuse of passports, but it is a necessary and important step in the right direction. Let me also mention that the government, with the bill, wants to reinstate penalties for breach of the obligation to provide information which may be imposed on a person who is deemed to be able to provide information on another's foreign case. For the government, it is essential that the immigration authorities have all the necessary instruments at their disposal to ensure that cases are fully disclosed. Most often, information from persons other than the alien himself will be of crucial importance in foreign cases, and therefore it is also important that we are fully informed about the foreign cases. With the reintroduction of punishment, a clear signal is sent that the immigration authorities must be informed of the information necessary for the processing of the case, regardless of whether the information originates from the person to whom the case relates or from persons other than the alien himself. In general, I would say that I think it is quite right and proper, of course, for there to be a consequence if we do not comply with the instructions given by the authorities. Finally, there is simply to thank again for the reception given to this draft law. And I understand that there will be a number of issues in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128164027	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128164040	The debate is open. Sir. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128164052	Today we have to deal with a bill that will adjust how refugees are distributed among municipalities, prevent unintended effects in housing placement and bring our law on Danish education into line with EU law. I would like to start by saying that the Social Democrats can support the proposals. For us, it is a very important and crucial cornerstone of Danish foreign policy that new arrivals of refugees are distributed to municipalities, depending on where most people already live with foreign backgrounds. If integration is to succeed better, it is very important that the whole country takes its share of responsibility. In the West of Copenhagen, there are municipalities that have not received new arrivals for nearly 20 years. I live in one of them myself • while other municipalities such as Copenhagen. Rudersdal or Ringkøbing-Skjern have received refugees for many years. We have also always supported the fact that the municipalities must be given the option of negotiating the next year's distribution quota on a voluntary basis, before the Ministry may join with a dictatorship. With the fluctuations in entry figures, there have been unnecessarily large administrative tasks with the reception of the new arrivals in the municipalities. We are therefore pleased that we have succeeded in agreeing with the National Association of Municipalities on a simplified procedure, so that the negotiation of regional quotas is dropped, and that changes in the national number do not trigger new municipal negotiating rounds, but will only mean a relative reduction or increase in the already agreed number that the municipality will receive in the coming year. The second element of the bill, which is intended to ensure that family members do not seek asylum in order to get ahead in the home queue, is of course also sensible, but I have to admit that I have doubts as to whether this is at all a major problem. But to the extent that some try to cheat in the front line, it is obvious that we must have stopped it. Finally, the draft law also contains a new provision that Danish nationals starting Danish education must be subject to the same rules concerning, among other things: financial deposit which applies to foreigners who have come here to work or study. In this way, foreigners are not discriminated against in relation to social benefits, and thus legislation is not contrary to EU law. For example, the Danish citizens who will be affected by this can: be Greenlanders, cousins or people who were born abroad to Danish parents. Social democracy can support the bill in its entirety.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128164308	There is a brief comment from Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128164312	If a minor has come to Denmark unaccompanied and then subsequently has the family reunion of the parents, there is now an opportunity in the law that the family-united parents can change status and thus have the opportunity to obtain an independent residence. If I understand this bill correctly I would like to ask some questions about it so that the possibility that exists today in the law disappears. I think that would be a pretty big problem. Because if a minor comes here and the parents are then brought here, it is reasonable to find a home suitable for that family. If I have understood the bill correctly and that is the case, can the Socialists not see that it is a problem to remove that possibility?
ParlaMint-DK_20171128164412	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128164415	I would like to start by saying that the draft law also states that there is, of course, an exception. When I have read the bill, it has not been so much with such an example in mind. I must admit that my thoughts were more in the direction of the stories that have been out from Towerby. I think there was a concrete example of a family or a person who had come here as a family couple, who had then sought asylum and had jumped ahead in a house purchase, and this naturally created a little discussion. It also created a subsequent discussion whether it was now a real example. That is why I have been trying to find out in connection with the preparation of this bill whether there really is a major problem or whether we are responding to a single matter out in Tårnby, which may not have been so much in anyway. But I can't wait to see the answer to Enhedslisten's question.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128164457	Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128164459	If it is correctly understood that parents who are brought together with a child who has come to Denmark unaccompanied and has been granted asylum, with this bill, lose the opportunity today in the law for them to have a home suitable to the size of the family, despite being family-run and thus not having been granted asylum in the first place, will the Social Democratic Party help to table an amendment?
ParlaMint-DK_20171128164534	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128164536	I would just like to start by looking at the reply from the Minister as to whether it is understood correctly before I deal with it. But I would say in general terms that it is not the case that they just cannot get a home. This simply means that they must be included in the general rules that are in our society, which also apply to all other citizens who are in a situation where they lack housing and have to turn to the municipality. This is, of course, a discussion about whether the special privileged access to a dwelling that some groups have should also apply to these family members or to this specific group, which may be seeking family reunification for the sake of easier housing. So let's start by reading that answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128164612	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mr. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128164618	Thank you for that, President. The proposal means that a foreigner who changes the basis of residence to a refugee, that is to say a foreigner who is already here, must, even in the future, provide accommodation on an equal footing with other residential residents, and of course the Danish People's Party can support this, as we have previously called for the legislation to be corrected in this area; in our view it is obviously unfair. We also call on the Minister to abolish the legal requirement for housing for all so-called refugees and not just for a small group, which is what is being proposed here. But that does not change the fact that the draft law is a step in the right direction. The proposal also means that a foreigner, such as a foreigner, who, for example, is not entitled to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution. Because of the crime committed has lost or been denied the extension of the residence permit and then again granted a residence permit as a refugee, must itself obtain a home on equal terms with other residential residents, and that is obviously right, but I am surprised that the government believes that in this case criminal foreigners should be allowed to reside in Denmark; that is also something that could be considered to be done away with. But, of course, it is good that the public authorities no longer have to direct housing to criminals, but why should we allow them to live here at all? It can be hard to understand. The draft law also contains a number of changes in relation to the distribution of so-called refugees to individual regions and municipalities, and immediately we have no problem with the changes, as they are basically indifferent to limiting the influx to Denmark. Anyway, the Danish People's Party saw that refugees remain in the asylum centres until they can be returned, and it is our starting point that refugees should not be integrated, but that they should return to their country of origin. With regard to the changes to the rules for Greenlanders, forefathers and foreign dancers who want Danish education, we will ask a number of questions in committee to clarify exactly what the changes are covering. However, these are a number of quite reasonable tightenings, tightenings, which the Danish People's Party has also called for in the past, and that is why I firmly expect us to vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128164822	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mr. Marcus Knuth, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128164829	We have, of course, already mentioned the most important thing in this bill, but just to stress: the overriding, most important point for me in this bill is that you should not be able to shop around in a residence base when you have already come to Denmark. In fact, the proposal means that a foreigner who changes the basis of residence to, for example, a foreigner. asylum seekers, who do not already have a residence, will in future have to provide themselves with accommodation on an equal footing with other residential seekers. The rapporteur from the Social Democratic Party did a little bit about this, but we do have this example from the municipality of Tårnby, which well illustrates what this bill wants to prevent. Here the municipality experienced that an unaccompanied refugee came to Denmark and subsequently got his family to Denmark through family reunification. When the family came here, that is to say, they had been resident in Denmark, they were safe, they changed the status of all family members to asylum seekers. And thus they gained a number of advantages, such as that the municipality must provide a permanent accommodation for them in front of others in the residential queue. And this is clearly an abuse of legislation in an area and a flagrant abuse of people who have come here for our protection and who then go out and abuse our system. That is why, of course, we in the Left support the need to put an end to this. Then the Social Democrat rapporteur said a little about how many people are involved. It's not just this one family in the municipality of Tårnby; according to the figures I have, it's up to 20%. of those seeking asylum in Denmark who already have a residence in Denmark. This means that you have come to Denmark and you are safe, and yet it is up to 20% who want to change their place of residence. I think that is quite absurd. In addition, the draft law relieves the administrative burden on municipalities. This gives the municipalities greater predictability in the search of refugees, and the municipalities are given better opportunities to plan for the reception of new refugees themselves. So all in all, the Left sees it as a clear improvement in this area, and that is why we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128165032	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then it's Mrs. Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128165040	First of all, I should like to make a comment on Mr Seligman's report. Marcus Knuth's speech. After all, this draft law is not about banning people from changing their place of residence, in other words banning people who have come here as family members, from obtaining a status such as that for example. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. I understand, sir. Marcus Knuth is very offended or offended that some do. I am very pleased, for example, that... Women who come here as a family couple to a man who has been granted asylum in Denmark have the opportunity to obtain an independent residence basis by obtaining asylum. For by obtaining the independent basis of residence, for example, they have: opportunity to leave their husband without being kicked out of Denmark. If they are only here because of a family reunification, they will be thrown out of Denmark when they are separated from their husband. I think you often hear, among other things. Mr. Marcus Knuth talks about rights in relation to women with e.g. refugee background. You are totally blind to the very women, if you, like Mr. Marcus Knuth just did, says that it is a problem that they secure an independent residence basis. The independent basis of residence means that they are not a hundred percent dependent on their husbands. But that's not what this bill is about. For Enhedslisten, the most important and crucial element of this proposal is the proposed new rules on the housing of refugees. And the occasion is apparently a matter that appeared in BT in February this year, when the Minister called it, and I quote, demandmentality, greed and lack of gratitude... that the family of a 9-year-old Syrian girl in Tårnby took advantage of the opportunity to obtain refugee status after they had obtained family reunification to Denmark. And with that refugee status, they were given the right to appoint a family home and to move from the apartment where they had temporarily been sheltered from some relatives and where they lived together ten people in far too little space. The starting point in Denmark today is that family members must move in with the person with whom they are brought together. However, in exceptional cases, for example: When parents and siblings of a minor refugee are brought together in Denmark, I clearly believe that it should be the responsibility of the authorities to find accommodation for the family. Moreover, Danish Refugee Aid also writes in their consultation answer, and we fully agree with them on this. It seems that there is a little ambiguity about this, but as we understand the draft law, that possibility will disappear if this bill is adopted. The comments to the draft law state that the amendment of the law will have limited practical significance because it is a small number of cases. I should say that I certainly do not believe that it is a problem or an expression of greed when the family of the nine-year-old girl changes the status of the family from family reunification to refugee and thus gets the opportunity to have a home. I think that is quite obvious, that is to say, to provide them with a suitable accommodation. That is not greed, and I do not think it is abuse either. It makes sense that this possibility exists. Two other elements of the bill are less problematic. Regional negotiations on the distribution of refugees in the municipalities do not take place in practice, and therefore there is no problem with abolishing them. The fact that Danish citizens will have to pay a deposit in future, if they are participating in Danish education, does not mean that we see the major problems. However, we need to clarify whether this can have some unfortunate consequences for Danish citizens from Greenland and the Faroe Islands, who use Danish educational offers in Denmark and need Danish educational offers in Denmark. So we will also be asking questions about this in the legislative process. Finally, I would like to say that I think it is a bad idea to make such legislative proposals as this, where all sorts of things are mixed up, so that we are discussing a bill which is both about Danish education and about housing placement. Because the two things have nothing to do with each other, and it will be a sloppy legal treatment when, for example, I... We must stand here and in five minutes interpret our position on such different elements. I think it's a shame that we keep seeing these pile of laws. It simply creates poor quality in the law-making process.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128165538	But it has to be done in five minutes. There is also a brief comment from Mr. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128165540	Thank you very much. And I am sorry if I was not ready enough in my rapporteur's speech. What I think is a problem is when people change their place of residence with the aim of obtaining more benefits to which they would otherwise not have been entitled. So let me ask the rapporteur directly. Let us say that the rapporteur was in an unfortunate situation and stood in a municipality and lacked a home. How, then, would the rapporteur himself feel about people coming here who have protection, residence and everything that Denmark offers them as a family couple, and then suddenly they jump onto the home queue by simply changing their residence status?
ParlaMint-DK_20171128165612	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128165616	I understand that there are Danish citizens who are deeply frustrated that they cannot get a home. I understand that, and it shows to me that we are so lacking in access to cheap housing that people can pay. We know that this is particularly true for those affected by the government's cash aid ceiling and its other reforms, which have meant a great deal to the Danish citizens who have very, very difficult to find a housing they can pay. They are particularly the ones who are in these problems, and I understand that they are frustrated. At the same time, I think it is wise that when refugees come to Denmark, we do not tell them to live on the streets. We say, of course, we help you get a home. For crying out loud, there would be even greater integration problems if we did not help people find a home when they come here from, for example. Syria. And today, legislation allows a child to come here alone without a mother and father, so that father and mother can come here, and then they can switch residences from family reunification to refugee status and thus have the opportunity to have a home suitable for that family. Well, that makes sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128165722	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128165726	In other words, the rapporteur thinks it is quite all right to skip the housing line for Danes. Well, these are people who aren't on the street. These people who come here as a family couple have a roof over their heads. We are talking about another form of more such permanent housing. But that means that the rapporteur thinks it is quite okay to change the status of residence so that the Danes can be put in the queue.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128165752	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128165754	So, refugees can generally skip Danes into the queue understood in the sense that if you come here as a refugee, the Danish authorities and municipalities are obliged to find a place to stay for you. And as I said, I understand that as a Dane you can be frustrated by it. But I think it's wise that we don't let refugees live on the streets. On the other hand, I do not think it is very wise for the government to make reforms such as this. The ceiling on cash benefits, which means that a lot of Danish citizens will thus have even more difficulty in finding a place that is affordable and where they can live.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128165824	Then it's mr. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128165828	I have taken the floor because I think it may appear in the debate that then these people cannot get anywhere to live. What we are discussing is whether they should have designated a dwelling according to the rules of the integration law or according to the general housing social criteria that lie in all Danish municipalities and that all citizens of the country are subject to if they lack housing. All families, wherever they come from, will then be weighted according to the same considerations and on the same criteria, whether they are refugees or they have lived here for many generations. I think it is important for the support of our refugee policy in this country that we do not end up in a situation where some people can change their residence base with the aim of jumping in front of the home queue. So I just want to ask Enhedslisten if it is really not very reasonable that if there is a 9-year-old girl who gets her parents to Denmark and they live somewhere, and they have a roof over their heads, to the extent that they need a suitable accommodation, they must stand up in the same queue and be weighed on the same weight as everyone else, turn to the town hall like everyone else. And then you have to assess whether they need a home and how quickly they need a place to stay, just as it does for all other people.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128165937	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128165939	I mean, as I understand the case of the 9-year-old girl, who was called greedy, I have to say, it's crazy that a minister could call a 9-year-old girl a greedy girl, and then that family lived with some relatives. That is to say, they lived ten people in very little space. I don't think that's wise. I think that is an exceptionally bad starting point for integration. I think it is important that we achieve good integration, and it is very important that we take action very quickly. That is why I think it is wise for legislation to provide an opportunity to change the place of residence and thus to have access to suitable accommodation. And as I understand this bill, it's the opportunity that disappears. That possibility exists today, i.e. among other things. When a minor child has come here alone, and that's when Dad and Mom get family together. I have to say that I think it is wise that that family does not live with some relatives, ten people in an apartment, but that they get their own accommodation.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128170054	Thank you. Sir. Mattias Tesfaye wishes to speak again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128170059	I'm gonna forget about the fact that you have to get back in. I haven't called anyone greedy or anything. I'm just saying that if a family lives nine people or ten people together in an apartment and they show up down at City Hall and say that we live nine or ten people together in an apartment, then they will be weighted in the same way as a family who has lived here for many generations and who says that we live nine or ten people together in an apartment. I just don't understand why this specific family should be in the front line. And is it not our responsibility as legislators to ensure that citizens are not discriminated against? That is, of course, what the existing legislation unfortunately allows, and is that not exactly what this draft law is trying to take into account?
ParlaMint-DK_20171128170141	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128170142	We have legislation that can be said to discriminate. Because we have legislation that means that if you get asylum in Denmark, the municipality must find a residence for you. After all, there is no legislation that means that the municipality has to find accommodation for all other people. There is a law that ensures that if you have been granted asylum in Denmark, then the municipality must find a residence for you. The reason we have that legislation is because we say that if you come from, for example. Syria, then, it is exceptionally difficult to find a home yourself, and that is why, as refugees, you have that right. By the way, I think it is right, right and proper for all of us, because I think it is a very good starting point for integration that you get a place to live right away. We then also have legislation which means that if you have come as an unaccompanied child and have your parents reunited, you can change your status, and then they can also get a home. I think it is wise that at no time will they live in an apartment, but that they will have their own home.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128170234	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. We move on to Mrs Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128170242	This proposal adjusts the rules for the distribution of refugees between municipalities and the rules for housing placement. As regards the distribution between municipalities, many municipalities have experienced the process as administratively cumbersome and therefore, together with KL, a simpler and more flexible system has been found. That's very reasonable. In relation to the housing situation, the proposal envisages that housing should not be accommodated if you change the basis of residence. If you come, for example... to Denmark as a family couple, the public authorities should not designate a dwelling. With the proposal, that would not be the case if the family reunited subsequently applied for and granted asylum, and that is what we in the Liberal Alliance think is fair enough. That is why we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128170332	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128170344	Thank you. The bill now before us, L 97, concerns the amendment of both the integration law and the law on Danish education to adult foreigners and others. The bill contains a number of amendments to the integration law, by adjusting the quota allocation rules and changing the housing placement scheme, and I will first take the housing placement scheme. It will be made clear in the law that if a foreigner changes his residence... No. I'm sorry! I would first like to take the first part of the legislative proposal, which deals with the adjustment of the quota allocation rules, and say that we think that part sounds reasonable. The abolition of regional negotiations in connection with the distribution of refugees seems to us to be positive, just as we think it is positive that we want to change the fluctuation framework for the country, and we have no comment on that part. That's really positive. Then we come to the housing placement scheme. It will be made clear in the law that if a foreigner changes his or her place of residence, he or she should not be able to be assigned accommodation according to the rules of the integration law on housing placement. That part of the bill we actually find really problematic. It is now the case that if a foreigner moves from one municipality to another, the new municipality assumes the responsibility for integration and the alien can continue his integration programme in the municipality of relocation, but the municipality of relocation is not obliged to designate housing; the integration law does not determine whether accommodation should be assigned if the mover has not been assigned permanent residence in the municipality of relocation. The new thing in this bill is that you get that opportunity taken away. What is apparent from the Danish Refugee Aid's response to the hearing and that is probably what I would like to raise in my speech is that it is very difficult for refugees to find permanent accommodation, as there are a limited number of homes. It requires a network, housing is often expensive, and integration benefits are very low. At the same time, years of experience according to Danish Refugee Aid show that the possibility of establishing oneself in a residential area is important for the integration process of refugee families. That is why we are very critical of that part of the bill. The last part of the bill on Danish education is also problematic for Danish citizens from Greenland and the Faroe Islands. We agree, of course, that EU legislation must be complied with, as is also apparent from the draft law, but we are wondering whether we could not really turn it all around so that everyone is equated without having to pay, in that it is an advantage that everyone learns Danish as soon as possible. So we're critical, and we're sorry that there are so many elements in this bill that are messed up. We want the proposal divorced and we will try to propose in committee whether to separate the first part from the rest. So we are waiting for the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128170709	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128170712	Thank you. Well, I would just like to follow up one of the questions that I also put to the Enhedslisten rapporteur. Now the alternative rapporteur says that it is difficult to find accommodation, and I agree with her on that. Here in the metropolitan area there are no ordinary homes empty, and there are plenty of people who lack a home that lives with acquaintances or in temporary private rentals or other. I believe that people understand that newly arrived refugees who are granted asylum must have a special right to be assigned to housing by the municipality. But I think there are many people who find it difficult to understand that if you have a place to live and have been brought together with some people who live here and have a roof over your head, even if you may live together many people must have a special right to jump all other people into the home queue and be assigned a general residence by the municipality. In other words, does the alternative not also feel responsible for ensuring that the absurdities experienced by some Danes in asylum policy are eliminated, so that we have a fair housing distribution system? 'Cause I don't think it's fair when I read that a family even though they live under the same roof, and even if it's not advantageous, should have the opportunity to skip the home queue.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128170818	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128170820	It is a dilemma; I fully acknowledge that. And I think that is a fair question to ask. What I think should be taken into account when trying to answer the question is that we know that there are particular challenges when you come here as a completely new citizen in Denmark, when you do not have the same networks, when you do not have the same approaches to Denmark in terms of housing. And we know that it is very, very beneficial for integration to come out and live in a municipality and that you do not live ten people together in a home. And that is why I think it is important that we have an opportunity to give these refugees housing, even if they change their status.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128170905	Sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128170907	I agree with the alternative rapporteur that it can be difficult to find accommodation for this group of people. But it is also for many people who are on very low social benefits and for people who are divorced and want to live near their children. There are plenty of people who find it very difficult to find a common home. I don't think this is about very many people; I think it's about very few people. But that does not make it any less important, I would say that we will have legislation that is not seen as very unfair. I think it is important that we get these pebbles out of the way, because otherwise we risk these very few examples ending up in the newspapers all the time and people thinking: what is really going on in this country? I understand that they are thinking, and that is why I think it would be a good idea if the alternative could also back up the adjustment of legislation so that we do not see these absurdities.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128170956	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128170958	I think I see it in a slightly different way, because I fully agree that there are also many Danes who find it difficult to find accommodation. I fully acknowledge that. And I think that is also problematic, and I can easily understand if those people are really thinking: why do some people have the opportunity to be assigned a place of residence? But once again we have to remember ourselves, I think that if we are to be able to integrate these people, and that is what we all want to do, it is also important that we allow them to be integrated.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128171034	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128171045	Thank you. I really think it is an excellent debate that we have, which is about the very concrete, at the heart of this, which is also what the Social Democrat rapporteur himself said and asked about. There are very few examples we can actually come up with other than one example, where the minister unfortunately called a 9-year-old girl greedy. It's such a sad prelude to this. And as the Social Democrat rapporteur, I think it is quite apt, or at least I say it on my own behalf, because now I do not want to put words in the mouth of anyone, it is very much about the fact that we do not have a debate where we shoot refugees in the shoes, over a comb, that they want to exploit gaps in the legislation or cheat in the housing line, in other words that it is not going to be the framework of the debate. Because we do not see municipalities crying out that there are problems with refugees cheating in the home queue. That's not what we see out there. So for me and the Radical Left, this is really a very fundamental issue: is this common sense? Is that a problem we're gonna solve? Are we making legislation that makes a real difference? Who are we helping? What are we gonna do about? Is it just to show a symbolic punch, or does it make a real difference? I have my own fundamental doubts. After all, it makes a real difference if we get rid of the myth that refugees are such people who nasty and cheat. That would be incredibly nice. But isn't there anyone else who will continue to carry firewood for that fire? We in the Radical Left are open to the conclusion of this bill. I see arguments both for and against, and I think I have outlined some of them here. And other rapporteurs have outlined a large number of other arguments. If we can resolve the question put to Mr. Enhedslisten's rapporteur... Mattias Tesfaye, namely, that in specific situations there must be the possibility of exceptions where it makes sense, where it makes sense, that we should be given housing because otherwise we are putting stones in the way of integration, for refugees to get to work, for the challenges that we well know we are facing and where the municipalities can find out for themselves, and I would actually have liked that to be more of an opportunity then we would like to vote in favour. So I hope we can get an answer to that. I think it is unclear whether it is possible to take the measures that make sense for the individual municipality, which hopefully would like to help get as many citizens as possible, including refugees, into work, and that sometimes requires that you actually move. So we're gonna ask questions about that. And otherwise, we are waiting for the two other parts in which we say, like other rapporteurs, that there are, in fact, three legislative proposals in this draft law which have nothing really to do with each other. And it would be nice to be able to separate things. We support the flexibility of the distribution, which is also supported by the National Association of Local Authorities, and we can also easily see, in relation to the targeting of the law on Danish education, that it makes sense, and like Enhedslisten's rapporteur would like to hear the answer to what it means for Greenlandic and Faroese citizens who need Danish education. But I assume that can be clarified in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128171515	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Holger K. Nielsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128171529	It is true, as has been pointed out, that this is, after all, an example of a legislative proposal which brings together various points. That is something that is very much practiced. It's always a bad thing. I myself have been a member of a government and have been a tax minister and will not deny that it also happened at that time, but it has to be said every time that it is a bad thing when you have so many different elements. We're positive about part of this bill as a starting point. After all, the debate is very much about the housing social issues that have been pointed out and the possibility of changing residences and what it causes from difficulties. I understand it's based on one case that's been up. It may still be weak to use it as a starting point for changing legislation. I also believe that you should be careful, as well as taking as a starting point, that when you change the basis of residence, it is to speculate on your housing situation. But we're willing to look at it. I fully agree with those who say that it is not reasonable that, if you speculate, you can get the advantage that lies in it, but, of course, that this whole problem of housing queues and housing social problems lies in the lack of cheap housing. Therefore, it can be said that legal proceedings, and this is also pointed out in some of the consultation responses, should be possible to resolve this in the ordinary housing social work in the municipality. It can also be done in many places, certainly. Therefore, one might also ask how big the real problem is and, to the extent that there is a real problem, one has to solve it through the housing policy that is being conducted in the municipalities. However, we are not entirely clear about what we say and what we vote on the third reading. We think there are excellent things in this bill, and there are things that we are a little sceptical about, so we are waiting too.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128171739	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then we move on to Mr. Naser Khader, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128171749	In recent years there have been large fluctuations in the number of refugees who have arrived in Denmark, and the wide variation has given the municipalities major challenges, especially in terms of housing placement. That is why we must prevent the accumulation of many refugees in certain areas. It's bad if the areas turn into ghetto areas. It is important that we have a simple and flexible process for refugees to visit the municipalities, because it is the municipalities that have the day-to-day integration task, at least for the first three years. It is therefore very positive that the Minister has listened to the municipalities on this issue. We welcome the government's proposal to simplify the rules. That was the first part of the proposal. The second part is about preventing abuse of the rules when changing the basis of residence, that is. when persons have changed their residence base from a family reunited to a refugee in order to obtain accommodation. With this bill, we are trying to put an end to it. All in all, then, a sensible proposal that we support in the Conservative People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128171920	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128171934	Thank you. After all, in Denmark we have a quota system that ensures that new refugees are distributed throughout the country. This helps to share the integration task between municipalities and to prevent the concentration of refugees in certain areas at risk of forming parallel societies. With the system we have today, the municipalities support the integration task, and of course we must safeguard that. We have therefore also listened to the wishes of the municipalities to simplify the rules on housing placement so that the process becomes simpler and the system can better deal with greater fluctuations in the influx of refugees. And then, with the bill, we will bring about a dispute with the unfair rules in which a municipality is going to find a residence for a foreigner today because he or she changes his or her place of residence. In recent years we have seen a marked increase first and then a marked drop in the number of refugees to be visited to the municipalities. This has meant up to several adjustments in the figures for how many refugees the municipalities should receive. The current process is both time-consuming and administratively heavy. We have therefore, in dialogue with the National Association of Municipalities, looked at how we can ensure a more flexible housing placement in the future during the year, so that the figures can be better taken into account. So we're gonna do that now with this bill. The bill also contains some important restrictions on access to housing. Denmark assumes a great responsibility for receiving refugees and ensuring that they are integrated into Danish society in the best possible way. In it is also that we offer some good conditions in terms of helping to learn Danish and get to work, free school for children and access to a good health system, and finally we also offer refugees a home. These are relationships that we can be proud of. However, we must also be careful that we are not directly insane, so that the system is exploited beyond what it was intended to do. It has never been the intention that the obligation to designate a dwelling should also apply to family reunifications, nor has it ever been the intention that, when changing the basis of residence from family reunification to refugee, it should be possible to obtain a better right to housing. Family members are expected to stay with the family with whom they are brought together. If the home is not suitable for that, then the family members in line with everyone else must make an effort to provide a home for themselves. This also applies if a family reunited subsequently obtains asylum. Today, legislation opens up the possibility that family reunification and other foreigners who already have a residence permit in this country can, in special cases, obtain a better right to housing by changing from family reunification to refugee. We are now removing this possibility so that the asylum system is not exploited to gain unintended benefits in terms of housing. One should not be able to speculate on one's place of residence. That is why we are now tightening up the circle of people who should be housed and who should be assigned a dwelling under the integration law. This bill makes it clear to everyone that foreigners who have already obtained residence in this country will not gain special access to housing by seeking asylum. The draft law also makes it clear that the obligation of the municipalities to assign a refugee a dwelling does not apply if you move from the municipality to which you are first allocated. So roughly speaking, we can say that we are giving the rules on housing placement a makeover and closing the loopholes that have been in relation to special rules on housing that apply to new refugees. Basically, I am very pleased that we are now simplifying the refugee distribution system and tightening up the housing provision circle under the integration law, so that it does not pay to change the basis of residence to a refugee in order to obtain housing. With that, there is only one thing to say: I am of course available for any questions that may be either now or during the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128172412	It waits until the committee's reading, so we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128172426	For this election the following electoral groups have been notified: a group of 91 members: Danish People's Party, Left, Liberal Alliance, Conservative People's Party and Aleqa Hammond a group of 88 members: Social Democracy, Enhedslisten, Alternativet, Radical Left, Socialist People's Party, Inuit Ataqatigiit, Tjóðveldi and Javnaðarflokkurin. The groups have appointed the following members and alternates: To members: Bent Bøgsted (DF) Susanne Eilersen (DF) Jacob Jensen (V) Hans Andersen (V) Karen J. Klint (S) Finn Sørensen (EL) Josephine Fock (ALT) Morten Østergaard (RV) Deputy: Jeppe Jakobsen (DF) Marlene Harpsøe (DF) Torsten Schack Pedersen (V) Søren Gade (V) Troels Ravn (S) Henning Hyllested (EL) René Gade (ALT) Sofie Carsten Nielsen (RV) Notice of who has been chosen according to the group's recommendation will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk. The persons concerned are then elected.
ParlaMint-DK_20171128172518	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 29 November 2017, at 10:00 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
