ParlaMint-DK_20171124100007	Hello, it's 10:00 so we can start our agenda here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124100023	The debate is open. The first speaker is the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party, sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen. Flemming Møller Mortensen Good morning, President). Good morning, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124100047	Thank you. For decades, social democracy has helped to build up the patient compensation scheme that we have today, so that patients can seek compensation if they are injured when they are treated in our healthcare system. In fact, we have a very good patient replacement system, and with this bill we are proposing an even better system. It is planned that more damage may be covered and that it should include any damage caused by the examination, treatment or the like of persons authorised under specific legislation for the performance of health care tasks and of persons acting on their behalf. In addition, the draft law provides for several treatment injuries to be covered, so that compensation can also be sought if there are side effects or psychological injuries following the use of medicinal products. With regard to the payment of compensation awarded, this bill is also very much amended. We hear from time to time that patients had been put in the unfortunate situation of a claim for compensation. With the proposed changes, we bring clarity and simplicity to things so that patients can be sure that a paid compensation can be retained and thus also used. That's what we call in the bill for the preservation of awarded compensation. A compensation decision may continue to be appealed against by both the patient and the region which is the party liable for damages, and this is done to the Appeals Board of the Patient Compensation Board. If an appeal is brought against the decision, it will automatically have suspensory effect in future, which means that compensation will not be paid until the appeal has been examined. It should also be mentioned here that the time limit for appealing against and appealing against a decision is reduced from three months to one month in the future, which will mean a clearly faster decision on the matter and a faster payment of non-objectionable claims. In general, a more flexible course of action is proposed in the Patient Replacement Act as well as in the Appeals Board for the Patient Replacement Act. Overall, these are some very significant adjustments and changes to the happiness, benefit and safety of patients. As the last element of the draft law, it is now possible for inmates in prisons and conscripts to be compensated for dental injuries, regardless of who has treated them and where they have been treated for their dental problems. The Social Democratic Party pays particular attention to one objection in the hearings. Danish Regions raise the flag in relation to the financial calculations made by the Ministry of Health over the increased costs associated with the predictable additional compensations. We're going to follow up this disagreement, and we're going to keep our attention on how this is going to develop. It is the clear position of the Social Democrats that Danske Regions should not, of course, be put in a situation where they are forced to make savings in health care, because there is insufficient coverage of the costs that the law will impose on them. It is clear that if that were the case, the government would have to find more money. The financing of the extended replacement option, as expressed in the bill, is provided by amending and adjusting the current de minimis threshold for compensation of DKK 10,000. It will be removed and a new own contribution of DKK 7,300 will be introduced. As a result, more payments will be made and more small replacement payments will also be made. The Social Democratic Party would very much have liked the changes resulting from the bill to have been financed by the Finance Act rather than to have the money found within the compensation scheme itself. Overall, the good and necessary changes are taking place. That is why, of course, the Social Democratic Party supports the bill and, of course, we will also take the necessary discussions towards the second and third readings if other objections are put on the table. Social democracy supports the bill as it stands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124100556	You're welcome. I see no one with brief comments, so we continue in the rapporteur's line. The next is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124100605	Thank you. On 7 April 2017, we discussed the Danish People's Party's proposal for a service check of the patient replacement system here in the Parliamentary Assembly, and a report came out of where we agreed to improve the patient replacement scheme and improve transparency on patient injury cases and patient replacements for the benefit of the victim. The Danish People's Party has struggled for a long time to change the law, so mistreated patients do not have to meet with refund claims, as we have seen in very many unhappy cases • something that has deeply affected me. Now we are standing here today, and I should be delighted and glad that we are now able to change the patient compensation system and to preserve the compensation paid. I think that part should apply from now on. Nevertheless, I think there is something missing from the bill. In the Danish People's Party, we have been very concerned about the need to find a viable and fair solution to the refund problem, so patients are allowed to keep their compensation paid to them, and that is also what is going to happen with this bill. Some regions have changed the practice of patient compensation and have budgeted proceedings against citizens in order to reverse decisions requiring reimbursement of claims already paid in cases in which the Ankekaret for Patient Compensation converts the liability base to the disadvantage of the patient, who has been successful in the first instance in a patient injury case. This also applies to decisions which neither party has complained against within the time limit for appealing. I can, among other things. also refer to the Region of Southern Denmark's 2015 savings catalogue, where one of the austerity points was called for changed appeal practices in patients' injury claims, where 11 million were to be recovered. kr. in that account. As an ill-treated patient, it has not been possible to keep the compensation paid, even if the compensation was not claimed. In the Danish People's Party we have found it deeply unreasonable that as a patient you risk losing your compensation, which you have received in good faith, even several years after the first decision. That is why we have also asked the Ministry for an answer as to where the law states that the region is obliged to recover the amount. In a Supreme Court judgment, no decision has been taken as to whether the debtor can recover all prior claims. A previous judgment indicated that it was based on an independent assessment whether the debtor could claim repayment. This is probably soon to be decided as cases are pending in the Supreme Court. Now we are here today with a conservation of paid compensations so far so well. But we have also raised a number of issues in the process, among others. As an ill treated patient, if you complain about the amount of the compensation, you may lose your entire compensation. I would also like to refer to the hearing of the Lawyers' Society where they say that this is a matter of legal certainty and that there will be few patients who dare to take that risk. The Danish People's Party has also problematized that this change in the patient replacement system should be financed by the very same patients who have been mistreated in our health system with an own payment. The legal community and a number of other consultation parties point out the same thing, and they also point out that, in relation to drug damage, it is a direct deterioration. It might be desirable that, if you were successful, you would also be exempt from self-payment. I very much hope that in the financial law negotiations a solution can be found to the own-payment. The bill contains several good elements, such as: is also an extension of the scheme so that all treatment injuries caused by authorised healthcare professionals and persons acting on their behalf are covered. It is also proposed that patients who suffer mental injury following the use of a medicine should be able to seek compensation for the patient replacement scheme. Today, only physical damage following the use of a medicinal product is covered. The Danish People's Party has a number of questions. Among other things: We have doubts as to whether the agreement we reached together also meets the legislative proposal that is now before us, since the draft law we received in consultation looked somewhat different. For this reason, we are also concerned about the consequences of what has been changed, namely that the regions can only complain in order to have suspensive effect. We do not believe this in the Danish People's Party should be a standard procedure. We have not received a clear answer as to the consequences of this to patients who have been mistreated in our health system. After all, it costs only one region approx. 18,100 kr. to complain about a case, and that is a relatively small amount in the large picture if you can catch up with a million. kr. from a patient. In the Danish People's Party, we believe, among other things, that the practice of the regions should be followed closely, including which cases are being appealed, and we also believe that consideration should be given to the fact that it should only be in cases where there is doubt that there is a suspensive effect. The best thing would be for you to believe in that decision when you were a patient who had a decision that you were entitled to compensation. As far as patient replacement is concerned, we could also consider that the patient should have, for example, in relation to whether it is a relative. 10% of the compensation paid in the event of a complaint by the debtor. Unfortunately, as a patient, you often have to hire a lawyer to help you run the case. It's very expensive and shouldn't be necessary. Many of the patients have lost an income from work and are often in a very uncertain financial situation. That is why we agreed that it would also apply to professional or leisure activities if an authorised health care professional were to help a citizen, for example. in a car accident suffered an injury. I would therefore like to know whether this bill is still in force. Now the President has risen. This is very close to my heart, and I have written enough ten pages of speech, and I cannot make it all. But we look forward to the committee reading and we have a number of questions. Of course, the Danish People's Party keeps its agreement, so it is when we enter into agreements, but we also want to be sure that what we have agreed will also comply with the bill, so there will be a number of follow-up questions from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124101211	Thank you. And the rapporteur also has the opportunity in this Chamber to put questions to the Minister when the Minister comes on. However, the rapporteur must just stand by because there is one brief comment, and that is from Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124101229	Thank you. It may then be that the rapporteur is allowed to finish some of his objections in this regard. However, I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether she does not agree that the fact that there has been no suspensive effect in the past is precisely the reason why many patients ended up receiving compensation which they then had to pay back. And does she not agree that the fact that there is now a suspensive effect is a good and general principle of law, in relation to compensation being paid only when we all agree that compensation is justified and that in future we ensure that patients do not receive compensation which, unfortunately, they may later have to pay back, that is to say that this is the problem we are solving here?
ParlaMint-DK_20171124101316	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124101318	Yes, it is very good that we are solving a problem in relation to the recovery problem; I fully agree with that. Our concern is, of course, that all cases will be brought to trial and will have the suspensive effect, which means that there will be an increase in the number of cases in the system, so it will take a long time for patients to receive their compensation, in other words because there is no time frame for it. That is the concern, and the rapporteur has also been involved in this process in which we have examined a number of questions and a number of answers. What I am pointing out is that that is not what was in the original agreement that all parties in this Chamber concluded. And therefore, the Danish People's Party needs to know: What will the consequences of this be? Does that mean that, as a region, you want to test every case, for example? those with high compensation amounts to be paid to patients? It is of course important that we, as rapporteurs and as Parliament, should be able to keep up with that part, also in relation to whether there may be some inappropriateness. That's why we're asking questions about that part.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124101430	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124101433	In fact, this simply means that all parties must be aware of whether or not there was indeed a patient injury and, of course, if you disagree, also as a region, you must appeal at such an early stage that the patient is not at risk of receiving compensation to which it subsequently turns out that he was not entitled. And is it not really a very good legal principle to ensure that a case is actually a patient injury or not before payment of compensation is made?
ParlaMint-DK_20171124101503	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124101504	In the Danish People's Party we agree that in many cases the suspensive effect is really, really good. What we are pointing out is that we do not know what negative consequences this will have in the appeal system. It is important that we can follow that part, also in relation to what it is for some future cases that are being appealed. And then I think that the very best thing would be for patients to be sure that the decision they had first received that they were entitled to compensation was also valid. That would be the best thing to do, so you were free from hiring lawyers. After all, many of these patients have been in the situation of losing their income and then going out to hire a lawyer to take a case and to get right in the end.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124101552	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments right now. The next speaker is the rapporteur on the Left, Mrs Jane Heitmann. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124101601	Thank you. In Denmark, we have a strong healthcare system that solves many tasks every day, and I am proud of the many different treatment tasks that our skilled healthcare professionals solve every day for the benefit of our patients. We in the Left give high priority to the health of the Danes; only since the 2015 elections have we lifted health care by 3.8 billion. kr. But no matter how much money we spend or how much effort both doctors and healthcare professionals and other professionals make, it is impossible to avoid mistakes. Our health care is carried by people, and humans can fail. It is therefore vital that we, as a society, ensure that there is help to be obtained if the damage is done and that there is a possibility of a fair compensation. Today we are discussing a draft law on the patient compensation scheme. The scheme is a central part of the Danish health system: it is here that you can get help if the accident is out and you are mistreated or mistreated. The patient compensation scheme is also part of what enables us, as Danes, to have confidence in health care and that we can be confident that there is help to be obtained if mistakes are made. The draft law we are discussing today covers several areas of redress and compensation access. We are extending the patient compensation scheme and we are making the processes more flexible and less bureaucratic. At the heart is the preservation of paid compensations received by the patient or any survivors of the patient in good faith, who have neither the patient nor the debtor appealed to the Appeals Board for the Patient Compensation. We have witnessed far too many cases in which patients have been sentenced to pay compensations back, far too long after they have received them. This is both insecure and totally unreasonable. When we in the Left say "Man before the system," we mean it, and today we put the patient before the system. The extension of the scheme is also at the heart of the legislative proposal. Several must be covered by the scheme so that the patient who has received wrong treatment in a nursing home is as good as the patient who has received treatment in the hospital. And drug damage, both physical and mental, will continue to be part of the scheme. This is where compensation can be awarded. If you have been awarded compensation, it is essential that you also receive the money as soon as possible. With a time limit for complaint and a period of payout of just one month, we will make it clear, even if a patient complaint will have suspensory effect. There are very few free pleasures in this world, and the extension of the patient compensation scheme is no exception, because funding is also required here. Today there is a lower payout limit of DKK 10,000, respectively. for damage, examination and treatment and 3,000 DKK. for drug damage. With this scheme, we are now introducing an own contribution of DKK 7,300, which is deducted in all cases where the total compensation and compensation is DKK 7,300. or more. The draft law also contains a few other elements in the case of inmates in prisons and conscripts who are currently unable to choose the dentist themselves. This means that those who have dental treatment carried out by a dentist associated with the Defence or a prison are at a disadvantage than those who are treated by private dental practitioners. We'll change that so you're even, both inside and outside the walls. Last but not least, the bill also contains amendments to the appointment of the Chairman and Vice-Chairman of the Appeal Board for the Patient Compensation and Authorisation Rules for the Faroe Islands. It is important that the Appeals Board has the right legal basis and has the competence to take a position on the many complex cases, and therefore it makes good sense that the President and at least three Vice-Presidents should be national judges. In relation to the applicable Faroese law, it is now possible to ensure that parts of the Complaint and Compensation Act relating to the Board of Patient Safety's competence to deal with complaints from patients about health care activities can be put into effect for the Faroe Islands. The Left can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124102004	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we will continue to speak, and that is Mrs Stine Brix as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124102012	Thank you for that, President. In April of this year we dealt with a motion for a resolution here in the Parliamentary Assembly which dealt with the unfortunate situation which we have witnessed around the country, where a number of citizens who had received a patient compensation had seen them pay back a great deal of money several years later because of an appeal and a new decision. It naturally gave rise to debate in the press about that practice, and fortunately it was also something that was picked up here at Christiansborg. There was a debate in the media, and this resolution came from the Danish People's Party this summer. Back in April, we supported this proposal, which is why, of course, we also support the fact that there are now some changes to these rules in the legislation. The change in the rules means, as my colleagues have said before me, that you will not be able to face the situation that a compensation paid to you may have passed months and years later can be recovered. We think that's good. When you have suffered an injury and have been through a long period of illness, they can pay compensation, regardless of what happens if there is a discussion later on whether it was now an injury caused by the health service • been used long ago to correct the ailing economy you must have had after a long period of illness, and therefore we certainly do not think it is reasonable that you have been able to demand their reimbursement. The financing of this scheme, as several have also mentioned, comes from raising what is called, in a new word, an own contribution to DKK 7,300. And that means you're gonna draw 7,300 kroner. from the compensation that has otherwise been awarded. I would like to say here that there is no great logic in that. It is simply a question of how this scheme has been financed, and I do not think it is particularly attractive. It would have been much better if the money could have been added to the external system. However, I think it is far, far better than the situation we have had before, and that is why we support it. Then the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party says that suspensive effect is now being introduced. And the suspensive effect means, of course, that if there are some who complain, the compensation will not be paid until a decision has been taken. And I can understand the attention of the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party to this point, because we know from other systems, for example. in the area of disability, that it is very, very long, at least in some municipalities, to change decisions because you can save money for a period of time. That is why I think it is very important that we keep a close eye on how this new practice develops. On the other hand, in this debate, the SF's rapporteur is also right that when there is suspensive effect and you are waiting for a decision, you do not get into the unfortunate situation that you risk having to pay back some money, which you might otherwise encounter. So this is an important balance here, where, on the one hand, patients need to be protected so that they do not find themselves in an economically weak situation, but, on the other hand, they should not end up in a situation where the regions could deliberately speculate on saving some money, even if it is only for a given period of time. The second part of the bill is about something quite different, but also about patient replacement, namely that there have been some major gaps in our system. If, for example, you're gonna have to... has been harmed by being seen by health care professionals outside the hospital, for example. Some who have practiced their health professional practices in leisure time have been unable to obtain compensation. Several have also mentioned that if a person has suffered psychological damage as a result of the use of a medicine, he has not been able to obtain compensation either. And we actually know that there are some medicines that can cause psychological damage, for example. malaria medicine has a known side effect in terms of being able to develop anxiety. And that's why we're really happy that those gaps with this bill are going to be closed. In their response to the hearing, Danske Regioner criticized it and said that they believe that, with these new extensions of the patient compensation, they might have to pay for some damage done by some people to whom they do not have the right to instruction or to whom they have not employed at all. And that discussion stands out, i.e. how we ensure a balance, so for example. private clinics also contribute to the damage done under their auspices. We are waiting right now for an evaluation of a change that was made a few years ago in which we made private hospitals obliged to take out insurance, and so I would like to say from here that we are aware that there may be something that needs to be corrected in this respect, but that it is therefore a matter of waiting for an evaluation of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124102551	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next speaker is the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, Mrs May-Britt Kattrup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124102603	We have witnessed examples where patients have been compensated for maltreatment in the Danish health system. The money had been received in good faith and in confidence in the system, but in several cases it turned out, unfortunately, that the system had been wrong and paid out money which should not have been paid out. The regions then demanded their return, which was not unreasonable in itself, since the money was mispaid. But the unreasonable thing came in because so much time went by and the patients had very understandably spent the money to get a better life with their disability or illness, and therefore the patients did not have the money or the ability to provide it. In order to avoid those situations, both for the sake of patients and for the sake of those responsible for compensation, all parties have now agreed on an agreement on the suspensive effect and conservation of compensation payments. This bill is the result of that deal. It is proposed that no compensation be paid until the time limit for appeal has expired, and then it is reduced from three months to one month, which means that in all cases where no appeal is lodged, compensation is paid after one month. In cases where an appeal is lodged, there will be suspensory effect, i.e. payment will only take place after the appeal board has taken a decision. It will then be longer in these cases before any compensation is paid. On the other hand, you can be sure to keep the compensation once it has been paid. In 2015, the average duration of the proceedings of the Appeal Board of the Patient Compensation Board was 5.4 months. In 2016, it was 4.9 months, and since 2009 the average processing time has not exceeded 6 months, but it may vary according to the complexity of the case. But even if, in these cases, you may have to wait for the payment of compensation, I still think it should be much preferable, since you can then be quite sure that you can keep the money. It is of no value to get money paid out quickly if you do not know whether you can keep it or not. In addition, the scheme for patient replacement with the bill will in future cover all claims related to treatment by authorised healthcare professionals, and patients who suffer mental injury following the use of medicinal products will also be able to seek compensation in future, where only physical damage is currently covered. In-patients and inmates will also have the possibility of compensation for dental injury as a result of treatment, regardless of whether the treatment has been carried out in the defence, rescue, prisons or a private dentist. I think that these are good and fair changes that have been very close to my heart, and I am therefore pleased that all parties could agree on these changes. The Liberal Alliance supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124102907	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124102915	As previous rapporteurs have mentioned, we have seen how several seriously ill patients and relatives who have been compensated for damage related to treatment have been forced to pay back the money to the regions. We have seen in the past how the regions have increasingly and increasingly sought to have decisions overturned in these cases. For example, in the Region of Southern Denmark since 2014 47 cases have been appealed against, which has given them 13 million. kr. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to draw your attention to a number of points which have been raised in this debate. In some cases, it is the relatives of patients who have died in the course of treatment who have been required to repay compensation of between 0.5 million and 0.5 million. kr. and up to 2 million. kr. We believe that it is unreasonable for citizens who have already been awarded compensation to be in danger of being taken to court and having to pay it back again. At the same time, the regions have also begun to draw the citizens into court and to summon people who refuse to return the money. So we are in favour of the bill, L 98, because it has been worked out jointly by the parties here to end the search for these compensations in the regions. So we must have some fundamental changes in the patient compensation scheme and the basis for the regions to bring proceedings against patients who have already received compensation. It is a question of extending the scope of patient replacement, and it is also part of the legislation here to include psychological drug damage in the coverage area. But the most important thing is to protect the replacements in a way that gives the patient or relatives an honest chance in an already difficult time. So with L 98 new rules are created within the financial framework. We want some questions in connection with the treatment, but we are positive about L 98.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124103149	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124103156	The reason why a united Parliament is united in adopting this bill is that we are thereby improving the patient compensation scheme so that it becomes more transparent for patients and for the survivors of patients. Specifically, in the future, the scheme will be extended to cover any damage caused by investigation, treatment or the like by persons authorised under specific legislation to perform health care tasks and persons acting under their responsibility. In addition, patients who suffer psychological damage as a result of the properties of a medicinal product, similar to those who suffer physical injury following the use of a medicinal product, will have access to seek compensation and compensation. In addition, and this is very important, we will, with the bill, protect paid compensation and compensation so that these cannot be recovered. All in all, in the Radical Left, we are very pleased with these legislative changes that we have agreed on, and of course we support the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124103314	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124103324	I am really, really pleased that with the support of all of the Danish Parliament's parties and the support of a large number of patient associations, the trade union movement, the Consumer Council, etc. now has a new and improved broad agreement on redress and compensation in healthcare, which can now be translated into legislation. It has been heartbreaking to witness how patients who have received compensations in good faith far later after new decisions by the Ankestyrelsen suddenly had to pay back even very large amounts. It has also been unsightly for many vulnerable and sick citizens to experience that a system that had first caused them the errors subsequently tried to make regresses in their paid compensations. With the new agreement and related legislation, we are thus putting a firm end to this practice and, at the same time, we are putting all patients who may have a patient injury right, no matter where in the health system an injury has occurred. This is a clear improvement for a great many patients. In the SF, we are also aware of the regions' consultation responses regarding the financing of the agreement, and we will also closely monitor the impact of the agreement in the SF. We will never be able to guarantee a health service without defects, despite the fact that we have a great many skilled staff, but what we need to do first of all is that the staff have the opportunity to solve the tasks in such a good way that they actually manage to avoid most errors. I think I just want to say that we in the SF of course fully support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124103509	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124103524	Today we are discussing a draft law which translates the agreement reached widely among the parties of the Danish Parliament on extending the scope of the patient compensation scheme and the preservation of paid compensation. As several speakers have already mentioned in the debate, this proposal acts, among other things. on the need to provide citizens with more security in our health services. We do, among other things. by ensuring that citizens no longer have to repay compensation paid in connection with the patient injury scheme. It's only fair and fair. That is why the Conservative People's Party can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124103606	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124103620	Thank you for your comments on the bill, and thank you for a very good and constructive course of negotiations over the spring and autumn, in order to ensure that our patients who suffer injuries in our treatment system no longer have to face a situation where they are at risk, long after they have received their compensation, of having to pay it back, because today the system has not also built in any safety mechanisms with regard to patients. The legislative proposal we are discussing today follows on from the political agreement that we all reached in September, in which we subsequently made some adjustments, which I believe to be important, both in relation to suspensive effect with a view to creating security, but also in relation to some of the places where the responses to the consultations were noted that perhaps a little too much had been added to non-authorized health professionals. I think that with the bill today we are doing away with some of the grey areas that have been for patients who have been injured by authorised health professionals, but where the authorised health care professional has not necessarily been in a hospital. We have heard examples of doctors who have stepped in during a football match, we have heard other examples in which patients have subsequently experienced that they were not covered by the patient's replacement. When authorised health professionals make mistakes, whether it is in their spare time, or it is in a public hospital or elsewhere where authorised health professionals work, it is important that patients know that there is a place to contact, that we have an entrance and that we also have a patient replacement, which has a comprehensive coverage area. We have also had grey areas in the area which relates to the psychological damage after e.g. medicinal products. I believe that everyone remembers the case of a preparation in the field of malaria, which helped to have psychological consequences for a number of patients and where there was no coverage. We'll take care of that too with the bill. So all in all, we are now ensuring that it will no longer be coincidences that determine whether a particular treatment is covered by the patient compensation scheme. If you have been treated by a health care professional and have been injured in doing so, the injury is covered by the patient's replacement scheme, regardless of where the treatment has taken place. And it's really important, because it helps to create security for our patients. Then the bill also helps to ensure that in some of the cases we have seen, where patients have been called back, several years after they have been paid it, we are now putting an end to it. It is clear that the cases that are now running at the Supreme Court do not change with this bill. The courts have to make their decision, but this proposal ensures patients forward-looking, and I am very pleased with the great support that has also been given by the parties of the Folketing to ensure our patients better when damage is done in our health system. I am, of course, making myself available to all the questions that may be raised in committee, and I also hope that this will enable us, in the last unresolved circumstances that may be, to make good use of them so that we can ensure good conditions for our patients when it comes to damage and patient compensation.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124103933	There is one brief comment and it is from Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124103937	Thank you. It is very good that as a patient you do not risk having to pay back your compensation, and we are very happy about that too. The concern of the Danish People's Party is that the Minister cannot give any guarantee... how do we ensure that the regions do not just run these cases? Well, what are the negative consequences of that? My concern may well be to leave things a little light, for example. those where compensation is not so high, go through and choose to run the complaints where compensation is higher, for example. One-and-a-half million. kr., because the motivation of the regions may be higher in those situations. How do we guard against it, and how can we follow it up? The second part is about how to ensure that we are in line with the processing time. After all, it is an average length of proceedings, and it has to be assumed that the relatively small cases in which there are no such large amounts of compensation go faster than the larger cases in which there is a higher amount of compensation.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124104050	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124104052	Thank you for the questions, which are of course very relevant. How are we going to keep up with the processing times? It is, of course, part of our agreement that we must keep up with this, and that is extremely relevant, because none of us wants to see an increase in the time for processing, because these are patients who, if there has been an injury, need the money to be paid out and benefit them very much. That is why it is important that the processing time is not too long, and we have also agreed that we should follow it closely, and I think that is a very good idea. This also applies to the whole question of suspensive effect. This is something which, like the rapporteurs, I am concerned about, that we are also going to follow closely, which is why I would also like to point out that this is something that we in the rapporteur's group are constantly being told. Today there are 3%. of the cases appealed against and in which appeals are brought. To expect the regions to complain about all 100 per cent, I find it difficult to imagine, but it is clear that if there is an unhealthy pattern, in relation to which cases you complain, and that it is not based on when you think something improper has happened, but it is more about the amount of insurance money, then it is clear that we, as parliamentary parties, must of course follow it closely.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124104201	Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124104203	Thank you. Then I want to know if the Minister can confirm that private hospitals are also included in this bill. Secondly, I would like to know whether the Minister will ensure that we are going to run a track two. With regard to the tolerable rule, that is, what you must tolerate as a patient there have been examples of a man who was operated on bladder neck cancer, who came out with an amputated leg, but as a reasonable person he had to tolerate that, I want to know if there's another clue where we can go deeper into this and get all the challenges that can be in this area under scrutiny.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124104243	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124104245	Thank you. This bill is not, of course, about the rule of tolerance and the discussions that are going on in that area, but of course I am happy to answer any questions that may be raised, and if there is a desire to discuss it in another context, the rapporteurs are welcome to raise it. I think that what is important about the bill here is that we have clear rules on patients' compensation, which ensure patients far better than they are today, both in relation to where the damage has been done, in relation to which health care professionals are involved, when what is covered, and also in relation to mental illness caused by damage. In relation to private hospitals, I would like to say that there are a large number of things that private insurance is covered today, but where you go through the Patient Compensation. It is also a question of extending the scope of patients' compensation here, and we have also agreed in the rapporteur that we should follow it closely when the evaluation of the old legislation comes, in relation to where it is oneself to be an insurance taker when one is a private player in the field and where it is that the public as a public health actor has to cover. What is important for patients is that there is one entrance, regardless of whether it is in one place or another, namely through the Patient Replacement.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124104349	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124104413	The debate is open. Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124104415	For several years, the Social Democratic Party has been helping to set an agenda here in the Danish Parliament and in the Health Committee with a focus on a dignified end of life. This is a subject which is very frequently debated among young people and the elderly. That is why it is incredibly gratifying that in September of this year a joint Parliament made an agreement with several crucial new breaches in this area. One of the new breaks was an answer to how medically one could help alleviate the end of life, and yes, then there were the elements that we are now discussing here that require amendment of the Health Act. This implies an increased self-determination for patients when opting out of treatment, including the choice of life-long treatment. In future, patients can more easily pass their own wishes on, for example, in current treatment situations. to say stop for further and continued treatment, whether it is expected to result in the end of life. This must, of course, be done on an enlightened basis, like everything else that is going on in the close dialogue between the patient and the doctor in our healthcare system. Another element is that the bill here introduces a new concept, a new document, a treatment testament that replaces our present life testament, which does not live up to everything we expect from such a testament. The treatment test provides new opportunities for the individual citizen's desires for self-determination to be met. What is going to lie in it is that health services cannot fail to listen to what is the citizen's wish, when health care would otherwise perhaps be doing an initial or continued treatment of patients. You can now create a treatment testament, which will appear in the individual citizen's medical record, the individual citizen's family card. The document shall be legally binding on the staff of the health service and may contain information that the relatives do not have to accept it. That is how we know it from the area of organ donation. Such a treatment testament will provide security and security because if a citizen comes into the position that he or she cannot act and express what he or she wants, then the treatment testament is the place where he or she can see what the individual has expressed and wanted in relation to a dignified end of life, and that must be followed. We in the Social Democratic Party hope that this will help to provide security, security, clear and simple conditions and decisions that have been taken in time. We want and hope that a great many, both young and old, will set up a treatment testament and discuss it with their relatives. I would like to express my thanks to the Ethics Council, which we asked for advice and received guidance from in this area, and we received very good assessments and recommendations on this essential ethical area. I would also like to say that a great many useful and fine consultation answers have been submitted, which have also been listened to, towards the submission of the final legislative proposal. We in the Social Democratic Party will follow this bill closely and with excitement, because we assume that it will provide really good opportunities for the individual to feel that one really will have greater self-determination and perhaps, rather figuratively speaking, can be masters of one's own house as long as possible. We consider this to be a groundbreaking legislative proposal in a difficult area. We support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124104854	Thank you to the rapporteur. And we go further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124104901	Thank you very much. I am very pleased that we are now dealing with this proposal. It is a proposal which ensures proper self-determination in terms of treatment when you are ill and which ensures that you can have a dignified death. The proposal deals with two important points, and both points are something for which the Danish People's Party has worked for many years and which we have pushed to make a reality. It is because I myself, in a job as a social and health assistant, have been in many situations where a law like this would have ensured calm and security for the citizens, by not setting in motion a treatment that would only continue their torment and the unworthy life that they themselves felt they had. I remember that when I entered the Danish Parliament and became a health rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, I looked after Jan, who had ALS, and who had a life supportr who kept him alive. But ALS made him paralyzed throughout his body and had difficulty breathing, and when he had a cough attack, he could be strangled because he didn't have the strength to cough it up himself. At one point Jan wanted to die, and after labor and trouble and many disputes he was allowed to do so. He was allowed to come home and get injections that allowed him to fall asleep, and when he was unconscious, one of us among the staff removed the mask, so he was allowed to sleep in. It could be done 10 years ago, and at some point I spoke about it to a magazine which then wrote a headline saying that we would now give the patients medication and let them die. That is one of the reasons why I have worked for not only a few patients who could be allowed to use §25, paragraph 25. 2 and 3 of the Health Act. Why is it only some doctors who allow some patients to be allowed, while others either have to go to Switzerland and use euthanasia or in other ways do a lot to get the dignity they want? This will give some people a tranquillity to actually live their lives to the end because they know that they will not suffer to the end, but will be able to have a natural and handsome death, a dignified life and a worthy death. So I am glad that we are here today and I am thinking of Jan when I look at the proposal. The second point in the proposal on the treatment test is, of course, that we do not know what is going on in the future. I usually say that I myself am a motorcyclist and can have an accident, for example. to hit the head, as some do, and then lie and could not make decisions about my life, i.e. lie and be what we can popularly call a vegetable, and I don't want that. I could then be affected by an infection that would be treated, and there I would be allowed to say no thanks; I would rather die from the infection than lie down and have nothing out of my life. This is what the treatment testament can do for me and for others who, in a situation, do not want to be kept alive at all costs, because it is not for the benefit of the individual, and it may not be for the benefit of the next of kin. It's the same thing as when we made the law of coercion against the inhabited. There I have talked to others who say that if they get a dementia disease, they don't want to be forced every day to take some medicine that just keeps them longer alive. We should also have the right to say that if I come into this situation, I would like to disapprove of treatment. Of course, we have to deal with it when there are acute problems or illnesses.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Because, of course, there are grey areas and, of course, there are ethical problems, but here I think we are solving it with regard to many of the other ethical problems we have had. So I support the proposal and I am very pleased that we can move forward in this process today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124105319	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124105324	Back in September, we agreed across all of the Danish Parliament's parties to increase the Danes' self-determination in relation to the opt-out of treatment. It's a discussion we've had for many years, so today I think I'm actually a little party. We also agreed to set up a treatment testament system. We agree on an agreement that will provide a better opportunity to opt out of treatment and receive pain-solving treatment at the very end of the day, and the draft law that we are discussing today will give effect to that agreement. The bill makes it possible to set up a treatment testament and makes the rules for refusing current treatment simpler. Death is a difficult size, and it's hard to talk about, but one thing we know for sure, and that's that it hits us all. And when we talk about death in this Parliament, many ethical considerations are often involved. It is, of course, also today when we are talking about the right to opt out of treatment. We are basically talking about the right to decide your own life, even in the very last part of life. We are not talking about euthanasia, but about the right to be able to decide for yourself how long life-long treatment must keep you alive. Self-determination is the key word in the bill. The bill allows the individual patient to refuse treatment or terminate an ongoing treatment, even if it leads to death. We thus give the patient the opportunity to decide for himself about his life, but also how it should end. But it is crucial that the individual is well informed and understands the consequences of the decision. For us in the Left, it is not just about the right to decide for ourselves, but also about dignity. Dignity is a difficult size, even when it comes to how we will leave life, for we are all different, even in the final phase of life. Fortunately, we do not know when death will hit, but nevertheless it can mean a lot for some people to have the opportunity to decide on it in good time. Only in this way can we ensure that our last wishes are met, even if we are not able to express them at that time. We are now giving this opportunity by introducing treatment testaments. With a treatment testament in hand, the patient is given the opportunity to determine his or her own life, even if the patient in the situation is in a condition where it is not possible to exercise the right to decide for himself. It can, for example, be done. be a patient affected by dementia or who has suffered severe brain damage. One does not have to be incessantly dying in order to opt out of life - sustaining treatment. If you are severely disabled, e.g. After a cardiac arrest, the treatment test can indicate that you do not want treatment and the doctor must respect your wish. For us in the Left, it has been crucial in the discussions we have had that the right to self-determination in the treatment testaments is made binding on health professionals. This is a significant change in relation to the life testaments, where health care professionals only have to follow the indications as far as inescapable dying are concerned. I am convinced that self-determination is important for the individual, and that is true at all stages of life. It is also important to give relatives the opportunity to influence. We know this today from the area of organ donation, where the words of the relatives can be decisive for the further progress. This possibility must also apply here, namely that the individual can choose to give the relatives the option of opting out of life-long treatment and that this requires the consent of the relatives. This makes the choice a safe choice for the individual to know that the relatives can be involved and have influence right to the end. For the Left, it is a matter of heart to ensure the Danes good opportunities to decide on their own lives at all stages, including the last one. Since the 00s we have introduced free elections in a great many areas, and we have done so because we recognise and respect that everyone is different and has different preferences. We live differently, and we have different priorities throughout our lives, and these are priorities and priorities that we need to make room for, even when it comes to our personal view of a good and worthy death or a good and dignified course of negotiations. I am aware that more, among other things. The Medical Association and the Ethical Council have expressed scepticism about the part of the bill which allows citizens to indicate that they do not want the law on the use of coercion in the somatic treatment of permanent inhabile to take place. I am also aware that the treatment testaments may mean that there are some health professionals who may feel that the person's wishes conflict with the health care professional's ethical perception of his or her obligations to the patient. In this respect, I think it is important to emphasise that we have taken a political decision which allows the patient to make the final say, but also allows the health professional to withdraw and leave the course of further treatment to another healthcare professional if, for one reason or another, it is contrary to the code of ethics. But the most important thing is that we allow ourselves to decide, and for us in the Left it is not crucial what the individual chooses. It's deeply personal, and that's what a choice has to be. Last but not least, I would like to thank my colleagues for their excellent cooperation across the board. We have had many ethical discussions where there is not necessarily a right and wrong answer. The Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124105852	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124105858	Thank you. The bill here envisages strengthening the individual's ability to decide more about his or her own life and about what treatment he or she receives in health care, and we support this on the part of Enhedslisten. The draft law increases the possibility for patients to opt out of treatment and to put an end to ongoing treatment, and then the draft law also provides for an increased possibility for a treatment testament to be set up in which treatment can be renounced in advance if, at a later stage, one is not in a position to be able to refrain from such treatment itself, for example. as several of my colleagues have said, because you have become demented or have suffered brain damage. One can also choose in a treatment testament to state that later in life one will not be treated under compulsion, in the event that one becomes incompetent. I believe that the draft law follows on from the fundamental principle that we have in our health care that we should consent to treatment. We have some very exceptional provisions to make it possible to depart from consent, namely cravings, and we would also like to see them restricted, some of which we are also directly opposed to. However, there is no doubt that the extended options for opting out of treatment also contain a number of ethical dilemmas. How can we renounce treatment on an informed basis when we do not yet know what the situation is and what alternatives are possible, what the consequences will be? It is very, very difficult and it makes very great demands on what dialogue precedes a treatment testament, what information you receive when making such choices. I think that is very, very important that we have in these discussions. Another ethical dilemma that I myself am concerned with is the question of how to ensure that a patient who can easily live a life with a life-long treatment for many years does not make a choice to discontinue that treatment at the risk of ending his life on the basis of an ongoing depression, for example. or on the basis of a life conditions that can easily be changed. Patients who are in a life-long treatment may have many different reasons for this, but it is really important that we not only say that this is the case, but also that we are aware that in this situation, too, you can become suicidal and that it can be a transient condition. We currently have a case from the media that makes a great impression on me. It is a young girl, 27 years old, with muscle loss, who recently expressed the wish that she would like to interrupt her respirator treatment to die. I think it is very worrying when she motivates that desire with reference to a system failure with very, very poor disability aid, a help which could easily and which I have seen many examples of could be arranged much better than what she is seeing in concrete terms, where the systems do not talk at all, where the region and municipality are fighting over who is to offer the aid and how. These are conditions that could easily be changed so that a life could be good, active and perhaps more dignified, but these are the kind of dilemmas we need to be aware of. I believe that it is our joint responsibility to ensure that all people, even if they need some kind of life-prolonging treatment, some form of aid, some form of help, can live a dignified life with illness and disability. So it must not be the fear that life, for example, is going to happen. with a ventilator is unworthy in itself. There must be an opportunity to live a dignified life. So with the dilemmas in mind, I would like to say that we support the draft law, and I also think it is important to say here in the end that it also obliges the Folketing to pay attention to the palliative treatment. We know that with the palliative treatment, that is, this treatment, which can cover pain in the latter part of life, can achieve even very, very great results. Yet there are a lot of people who could benefit from the palliative treatment that never gets access to it. That is why the two things for me are closely linked, in other words, that there is access to palliative treatment for all of them, that there is a need for it, while, of course, some choices must be made in the end when a treatment is to be concluded. So I think there is good reason why with great care and empathy in these very difficult discussions we are following in how these things develop.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124110357	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mrs May-Britt Kattrup, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124110407	The right to control my own body and life is dear to me and the Liberal Alliance. And it should be a matter of course, but it is not. Very many politicians and civil servants want to decide how we Danes should live our lives and that doesn't stop there. Many organisations will also decide how others should live, but here too it does not stop. Even as private, private citizens, we meddle in how our neighbors should live. In Denmark, we have become so used to others making decisions about our lives and taking the responsibility that we should have ourselves, and if there is no law banning something, it is actually demanded. We are developing into a society in which everything is forbidden unless expressly permitted. I don't want a society like that. I and the Liberal Alliance believe that actions that do not directly affect other people should not interfere either. Fortunately, the vast majority of us have common human feelings toward others, taking into consideration and showing respect. We care about each other, and we want to help. And that's the way it's supposed to be. With respect, we hear to respect just how people will live their lives and to respect the decisions made by the individual on an enlightened basis. One of the decisions may be that one no longer wants to receive life-long treatment, although it will mean that one will die immediately after the treatment is stopped. With this bill, such a wish can now be met without the doctor committing a crime. So far, this has only been possible if, in any case, one would die within a very short time. But now a desire to stop treatment can also be met, even if one could be kept alive for a long time. For example, you can now decide whether to turn off a respirator. So far, it has only been possible to say 'no' to initiate treatment, but not to stop it if it had started. This bill follows an agreement between all the parties of the Folketing, and it is really gratifying that we have all agreed that you can now decide for yourself whether to continue a life-long treatment initiated and that no one else should decide whether to keep alive or not, but that you can make that decision yourself. In order to also be able to choose treatment in a disease situation where you are unable to express it yourself, it will now be possible to create a treatment testament in which you can express your wish while you are able and fresh. The treatment testament will replace the current life testament, and the treatment testament must be respected by both professionals and relatives. There will always be a medical assessment of whether the patient is in a condition covered by the treatment test. Of course, stopping a life-long treatment is not an uncomplicated decision, and it is a very sensitive area. It must be ensured that the decision is always only an expression of the patient's own wishes and that it is only for his own sake and not for the sake of others. This shall be done on an informed basis of the effects and side effects, with appropriate reflection time and the involvement of relatives. Sick people, and especially older people, may think that they are troublesome, or feel that they are absorbing resources that they think could be used on others. But it must never be such grounds for movement that are behind a possible decision to stop life-long treatment. It should only be the consideration of the individual patient himself and, of course, entirely his own desire. The Liberal Alliance supports the proposal for increased self-determination and increased opportunity for a dignified death.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124110805	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124110823	In the alternative, we are in favour of self-determination for patients and a dignified death for all regardless of social and economic status and regardless of age and diagnosis, so that self-determination is not just for the most resourceful patients. This bill provides greater self-determination for patients, and that is why we are in favour of the bill. Severely ill patients often receive life-long treatment and sometimes, without wishing to, because healthcare professionals are obliged to help. It is a difficult exercise to find the right balance between the patient's right to self-determination and the concern for those who cannot assess the need for treatment themselves. That is why we must ensure that, while you are well, you have the opportunity to write down, for example. In the treatment test, one can refuse treatment or terminate treatment. We therefore also support the extension of the life testament scheme to the treatment testament scheme, because this will increase the possibility of increasing patients' self-determination in the current treatment situations. There will also be the possibility of ensuring capable patients, regardless of their diagnosis and state of health, that they may refuse treatment or that they may require an ongoing treatment to be stopped. I am aware that the proposal, which others have also mentioned, contains dilemmas. For example: there are people who experience pain because they have opted out of coercion in the treatment testament. There are some people who experience that they cannot be treated, and thus they may experience pain. However, the proposal is in line with the policy of the Alternative, such as: focuses on a dignified death process. We want a level playing field for everyone and a clear framework for how to be treated, so that you experience uniformity as a patient, regardless of which doctor you like. be inspected by. With L 99 doctors are given clear guidelines and a clear legal framework, and there is openness for patients about decisions. We also welcome the remark made by the Medical Association that we can look at extending the right to allow nursing home residents to refuse life-long treatment, for example. associated with cardiac arrest resuscitation tests. We think that this should be looked at in greater detail. So we believe that we must give as much self-determination as possible to patients, and that is why we are voting in favour of the bill, and we want to look at the possibilities of palliative treatment and the involvement of relatives in the discussion of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124111142	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124111154	A few months ago, all parties in the Folketing agreed to strengthen patients' ability to opt out of treatment, and it was agreed that the current life testament should be changed to a treatment testament with increased options for opting out of treatment and that these opt-outs should be binding on health professionals. Furthermore, we agreed that relatives should not be able to override a patient's request unless the patient expressly states so. In addition, it is agreed that patients should be able to opt out of the use of coercion under the law on the use of coercion in the treatment of permanent inhabile if the patient becomes permanently ill-advised one day. Radical Left can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124111246	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124111259	I am very pleased with the agreement we have reached, which now gives patients a greater impact on self-treatment. For it is, and remains, only the patient who can judge whether the treatment still makes sense, not least at a time when doctors have far more opportunities to keep us alive, but also for us as a society to have positive and, in fact, ethically sound answers to some of the questions that arise when discussing euthanasia in public, for example. Today, we will then have to deal with the legislation that will ensure that the agreement becomes a reality. Since SF has helped to push for this agreement to become a reality, we naturally also support the bill. However, in committee we will try to clarify some of the issues raised during the consultation phase further, not to question the legislative proposal itself, but to reassure the stakeholders who have raised the issues. How do we ensure that there is adequate information and reflection time for the citizen or relatives who are to opt out of life-long treatment? How do we deal in practical terms with the problems and dilemmas that exist in relation to the concern for the care of demented citizens, on the one hand, and the refusal of a treatment offer on the other? And how do we assess the question of the viability of a sick citizen, not least in the highly progressive course of illness that can reduce the citizen's cognitive abilities? I believe that even more sensible ethical questions can be asked. The more medical science can, the more questions I think will arise. I therefore believe that we will continue to discuss the new ethical dilemmas, but it is also our political responsibility to do so. Of course, the SF supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124111501	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124111507	Today we are discussing a bill which aims to give the patient the right to refuse life-long treatment. For me, it is a fundamental issue that citizens must be able to decide more about their own lives. However, there are always a number of ethical considerations to be considered. Several of them are among others. referred to in the consultation responses. My position is that the Danes must have greater self-determination during this period of their lives, and therefore the Conservative People's Party can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124111542	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then I'll have to interrupt the ministerial meeting down there and ask the Minister for Health to come to the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124111554	Thank you for your comments on the bill. I am very pleased to be able to stand here today with the legislative proposal we are discussing in this Chamber, because I think it is actually an extremely important legislative proposal. This may also be one of the areas in which we sometimes, when we talk about health policy, come to talk about all the details, the whole treatment and all the great things we can, while ethics and the thing about being able to choose for ourselves and also being able to say no to everything we can medically, is not always what comes out and on the front, and that is what this bill is about. It is about values, it is about ethics, it is about the right to self-determination and it is about the right to a dignified death. It is also a question of saying that the individual is sometimes both more important and wiser than medical science and must also have the right to resign, even if one could perhaps be medically much more able and could also guarantee many years of life, because we must put the self-determination of the individual in the front line and because we must also ensure that one can have a dignified death. We must be able to decide for ourselves whether we want to be kept alive with life-long treatment or not, and this also applies, even if it results in the onset of death immediately afterwards. We must help those people who are clear that they do not want to be here in life anymore, who have said goodbye and who are very convinced and clear about the consequences of their choices. I think we have taken some important decisions with the broad political agreement we reached in September, where the draft law is just one part of it and where the review of guidance in relation to the whole palliative area is another part of it. For me, it is essential that, with the legislative proposal we are debating today, we ensure patients' self-determination both in current and future treatment situations. Compared with the current treatment situations where the patient is still unable and able to express his or her wishes, the bill states that all capable patients, regardless of diagnosis and state of health, must be able to refuse treatment. This includes both the initiation of an ongoing treatment, but also the discontinuation of an ongoing treatment, regardless of whether this means that the patient is thereby dying. At the same time, the draft law also states that health care professionals can interrupt life-long treatment of a non-involuntarily dying patient without fear of being accused of murder on request, and that is also very important. Because it's also about the safety of our healthcare professionals in this area. In relation to future treatment situations, the bill transforms the existing life testament scheme into a treatment testament scheme. This means that, in future, a treatment testament will be established, stating that treatment is not required in a possible future treatment situation where one is not able to express one's own opinion, that is, where one is no longer able to express one's opinion. In short, the treatment testament system is a life testament system, but plus much more. One can also state, as today in the treatment testament, that one does not want life-long treatment as an irreversible dying patient if one is severely disabled, but one can also state, as something new in a treatment testament, that in a situation where, as a person with a dementia diagnosis, one might well be able to receive some treatment for another disease that could prolong one's life, one does not want life-long treatment. All the indications in the treatment test are made legally binding on the health care professional, and I think it is extremely important that we make that choice with the legislative proposal today. This puts the patient's self-determination at the centre, and thus we also ensure that it is not medical science that decides it, but that it is the individual patient who makes decisions on his own behalf. It will also be possible to determine in the treatment test whether your next of kin or a future agent should have the last word in relation to decisions to opt out of treatment as a non-removable dying patient. I think it is also important to have that possibility, also because we know that in some situations it is the relatives who are left, both with fear and fear, but also with the dialogue on the specific course of treatment, and it is also important to be able, as an able person in your treatment will, to decide whether you are so clear that you want to make definitive choices or whether you want to allow your relatives to decide it afterwards. I think it is important to stress that relatives only get the last word if the patient has explicitly stated it in the treatment test because the individual's self-determination must be respected, including in relation to the relatives. It is also possible, as some of the hearing answers point out, and as has also been pointed out in the House, that there will be situations where, as a relative or as a health professional, you will find yourself in a situation where you yourself think you would have made a different choice. We know that, and that includes the bill, and we do so with open eyes, knowing that there are also ethical grey areas in this area, but because we think that the individual's right to self-determination is essential and that it is a patient's right to self-determination that always has to be at the heart of these things. So all in all, the bill stresses that as a patient you must be able to decide that you do not want treatment, both in a current situation where you can say no to yourself, but also in a future situation where you can no longer communicate your wishes yourself, but where you may well have imagined what it is you want if you should end up in a situation where you are no longer able to communicate your wishes yourself. I think that with the bill we are wiping out some of the dilemmas we know about health professionals, relatives and individuals. I think that the draft law makes it much clearer that individual self-determination must be respected, and with the bill we make it much easier to ensure that this is done in a proper way and ultimately helps to support people to have a dignified death, where the individual's wishes precede what medical science, relatives or others might think or think or know. I am, of course, making myself available for any questions that may be raised in committee, and I am also looking forward to further cooperation in this area. For there is also a guide and a number of other initiatives in relation to the whole palliative area, which will have to be implemented in relation to ensuring that people in Denmark are more worthy of death and guarantee patients greater self-determination.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124112252	Thank you to the Minister and thank the rapporteurs for a sober and thorough debate on a difficult subject. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124112319	The debate is open. Mrs Karin Gaardsted, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124112335	Thank you. The draft law is concerned with the preparation for economic regulation of the district heating sector, and the draft law is presented on the basis of two agreements on such economic regulation. The first agreement was concluded in April last year between V, S, RV, SF and KF, while the second was concluded this summer between the same parties plus the Liberal Alliance and the Danish People's Party. There is therefore broad agreement on the need for a new regulation. For the new regulation to take place, data collection is necessary and the draft law does not directly implement agreements, but is a product of them. The draft law will provide a sufficient data base for the Energy Regulatory Authority to develop the elements of the new economic regulation of the district heating sector, which was decided by the two agreements. The draft law is therefore a prerequisite for implementing the actions of the two agreements aimed at achieving an annual efficiency target of 2.3 billion. kr. in the district heating sector from 2025. Social democracy can support the bill, but there are some challenges that I would like to address here from the platform today. The bill has caused concern in the industry about the data they are required to report as a result of the proposal. Some of the concerns have been addressed in the consultation process, but we can understand that there is still some concern about the consequences of the legislative proposal. That is why we in the Social Democratic Party will try to clarify in committee exactly what data district heating plants are to provide, just as we will both ask for clarification as to when and how they are expected to deliver the information. It is no use ending up in a situation where the plants have to invest in expensive new IT systems in order to meet the requirements imposed on them for the transmission of data. I'm not really so worried about whether the district heating plants have data... I think they have... but I fully understand their concern that the Energy Inspectorate will require them to be delivered in an IT system that they don't have at the plants. It is therefore an entirely legitimate concern that they express about how data should be submitted to supervision. And the Minister must accept responsibility for the fact that this data collection will take place in a way in which we do not expose the works to costs that they would otherwise not have had. In addition, we would like to stress that it is important for social democracy that everyone, both decentralised and central works, should provide data. With the expectation that these areas will be clarified during the committee procedure, the Social Democratic Party supports the proposal. And I should like to greet the Radicals and say that they are very much in agreement with us.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124112633	Yeah, but it's not certain that sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen is, for now he certainly has the opportunity to make a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124112638	Well, I think it's good in a committee procedure to focus on the administrative burden imposed on the district heating sector by this bill. I think this is a rather strange legislative proposal, because it is, of course, saying that there must now be some data base so that we can see that we have the opportunity to take the action against the district heating sector, where McKinsey reports claim that there are some loose birds on the roof, so that we can save 2.3 billion. kr. I think it is a pity that this bill is purely economic in focus, that we are not trying to integrate, that we are looking to have to have a district heating supply that has a high security of supply and that we need to make a transition to sustainability in the cheapest way possible. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether it is not true that the Social Democratic Party has not yet reached an agreement to save 2.3 billion. kr. in the district heating sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124112740	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124112742	I would like to say to the questioner that the legislative proposal before us today is not about how much money should be saved or how it should be saved, or whether it should be a sustainable effort, because that discussion belongs to another time. This bill is about collecting data to make a decision on how this regulation is to be done. So it is not right for the questioner to ask the question that the questioner is now asking. We must take this in a different context.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124112816	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124112818	What the questioner is asking is always the right question. What I'm focusing on here is that this bill's flaw is that it's focused exclusively on pure economy, that it doesn't focus on how we get as much CO2 as possible. In case you could use 2.3 billion. kr. If we look at the whole area of district heating and look at what investments are being made to last for 40 years, would it not be reasonable to take part in all this? Does the rapporteur not see that it is reasonable to look at anything other than the cold economy in this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20171124112852	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124112854	I can answer the questioner that if it had been about sustainability, I would have included it in my rapporteur's speech, but it is not about that. That discussion is very important and, of course, the Social Democratic Party participates wholeheartedly in it. There is nothing we want more than that the heat supply in Denmark will be able to switch to renewable energy so that we can get the coal and oil out of our district heating supply. So I agree with the questioner. But this bill is about data collection.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124112929	Thank you to Mrs Karin Gaardsted. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Mikkel Dencker, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124112948	The draft law here deals in part with the implementation of the two agreements concluded on improving the efficiency of the district heating sector. The Danish People's Party was not with the first agreement made in April 2016, but we are in the agreement reached here in June this year. The purpose of these agreements and this bill is to create as efficient a district heating sector as possible. It is so that the heating bill fills part of the household budget for most Danish families, and few can spare heat. Therefore, it is also important that the heating bill that you have to pay is not unnecessarily high, because the heating bill is too high, but then it goes beyond the amount of money you have left to pay the things that are more fun than it is to pay the heating bill. So we have a political responsibility to ensure that the district heating sector runs efficiently and that the Danes do not have a higher bill for heating than is necessary. The purpose of the draft law is to ensure that it is standardized, how district heating companies balance their finances and that they report these data to the authorities so that a thorough comparison and analysis can be made of how each district heating company performs and how it operates its economy. In this way, you can see who is not effective, who spends too much money on unnecessary costs, and in this way, in the extreme, you can help to demand efficiency. It must therefore result in the Danes having a lower heating bill, and it is certainly a purpose that Dansk Folkeparti supports. So I have to say that we support the legislative proposal here because it is a good step in the right direction and we certainly expect to vote in favour at third reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124113151	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124113154	I fully agree that it is of course important for what our district heating prices are. This bill then focuses exclusively on economics, but we know that DONG has announced that they are phasing out coal at two cogeneration plants in 2023 and that the minister has been in Bonn and signed an agreement that coal should be completely phased out by 2030 at the latest. This means that at Fynsværket and Nordjyllandsværket coal will be out of district heating in 2030, and how much will it cost for district heating consumers? I would really like to hear the rapporteur if he does not see that there are some aspects missing from this bill. So, there are some consequences of phasing out coal, and what does that mean for the economy? Instead, this is just a proposal to prepare for it, so that in some McKinsey report it can be concluded where the Minister will make a reduction in costs in the area of remote heating of 2.3 billion. kr. But perhaps it is wiser for that money to be invested in other ways. Does the rapporteur not see this?
ParlaMint-DK_20171124113303	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124113307	I believe that we have an interest, which Enhedslisten surely also shares, in the fact that the Danish heating bill should not be unnecessarily high. What I see as the purpose of the draft law is to analyse the economy of the district heating companies and to see if there is anyone who unfortunately has too high consumption, measured on some factors that help to ensure that heat prices are too high. That is the honest truth about the purpose of the bill, and I expect Enhedslisten to think so too is a step in the right direction. Then we can discuss whether coal should be phased out and how quickly it should happen, but I am actually a little surprised that it is something that Enhedslisten is worried about, i.e. whether coal is being phased out by the heat supply. But that is how you can change your position.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124113354	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124113358	We are not worried about the fact that coal has to be phased out by the district heating supply, this must be done as soon as possible, and I am, in fact, pleased that the Minister has signed an agreement on this. But what does this mean in concrete terms for the two combined heat and power plants, where it is going to happen and which are municipally owned? That's interesting to see. And then I am somewhat surprised at the rapporteur's comments, because the cost of district heating has an impact on the city council members, and I suppose they do too in Hvidovre when they have to deal with the framework conditions for local district heating. The rapporteur, as a member of the Council of the City, must have the opportunity to help focus on the fact that expenditure is not too high. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20171124113434	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124113438	It is clear that there are a great many district heating companies which are municipal and so many are consumer owned. It is also, of course, where everything in the best of all worlds would be ruled from and where things were effective in that way. However, it has just been demonstrated that there are some district heating companies that are not as efficient as they could be, and this bill needs to be used to analyze where you can put in and demand something more. So I regard this bill here as a form of completion of the system we have, where it is consumer-owned and municipal-owned companies that drive it, but you help them in the right direction with the bill here.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124113520	Thank you, sir. Mikkel Dencker. We move on to Mrs Marianne Bredal, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124113528	Thank you. With Bill No. L 93 the first part of the new economic regulation of the district heating sector. The draft law provides for the collection of the necessary data base, which ensures the alignment of the financial management of district heating companies, which should make it easier for the Danish Energy Regulatory Authority to compare the costs of the companies. A one-way data base is therefore essential in order to obtain the unique efficiency potential of 2.3 billion. kr. From 2025. That is why, of course, the Left supports Bill No. L 93.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124113612	Thank you to Mrs Marianne Bredal. And we move on to Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124113632	Purpose of Bill No. L 93 is to provide the Danish Energy Agency with a legal basis for providing a data base for developing a new economic regulation of the district heating sector, where the Minister's sole objective is to reduce 2.3 billion. kr. in district heating costs. However, no agreement has been reached on this and no agreement has been reached to reduce the reasonable possibility for municipalities to burn waste locally and leave it part of the local district heating supply. Would it be possible to expect a legislative proposal which has different bottom lines than purely economic ones? Yeah, I think so. Under COP23 in Bonn, the Minister of Energy signed an agreement that coal should be phased out by the energy supply by 2030 at the latest. I think it is very good that coal should be phased out as soon as possible. DONG has announced that this will be done at two power plants by 2023 at the latest. Then we have two municipal owned works, Funen and Nordjyllandsværket, and they lack a plan for phasing out coal. It will be interesting to see how this should happen: how best to do it, how best to reduce CO2 2 It is also reasonable to look at how it is done cheaply. There are probably many ways to replace coal with other fuels, and how is it made cheapest for district heating consumers? Here we have a legislative proposal which focuses solely on the fact that you will look at having some financial management system where you can arrive at a benchmark where you will then reduce, so you will arrive at a cost reduction of 2.3 billion. kr. I think it is more reasonable to look at how best to phase out the coals from our cogeneration plants, whether there are other fuels that should be drossed out and how to achieve the sustainability that is, of course, the intention to phase out the coals at our cogeneration plants. It is clear from the written submission: the draft law is therefore a prerequisite for the development of the new economic regulation, which will help to achieve the objective of improving the efficiency of the district heating sector for 2.3 billion. kr. From 2025. So here we have a bill which follows up on the birds on the roof, which the McKinsey report tried to describe, and where there was a fair and heated debate about the basis for that report and where it was not possible for the Energy Committee to come forward to hold hearings where McKinsey would appear, and it was not possible to have a public hearing where the government would step up and defend the figures that they had ordered and received from McKinsey. Now we are getting a bill that will go on after these free birds on the roof, which we have not been able to prove the reality of, i.e. whether they are still there or whether they have flown away, and this bill will then require the district heating sector to change their accounting and impose on them expenses in order to be able to prepare for what the government does not yet have a majority for. It's kind of weird. I think it is fair to look at what comments come from the district heating sector, because why should a lot be changed when there is no certainty that there is a majority who will implement the McKinsey report and catch these birds on the roof? It is against this background that Enhedslisten cannot support the bill. We are, of course, in favour of having district heating in Denmark, which is efficient, and it is also my view that we have a lot of talented and good companies that are very good at running district heating and that focus on reducing their costs and focus on the long-term investments they make. So I do not think you can find very much fringes and large Christmas lunches, although it may of course be that there are some places where you could reduce by 100,000. However, there has been one example of this during the municipal election campaign. So I do not think it is fair to impose so much expenditure on the sector. I think it would be much more reasonable to make a plan where it is CO2 but you do not, and that is why we cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124114104	Thank you to the rapporteur. And we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124114117	Thank you. When we talk about the district heating sector in general terms, we are really talking about a number of small sovereign kingdoms or monopolies. It may sound very nice to have consumers' rights and rest in themselves, but in the end there are small local monopolies and monopolies must be kept on a short leash. It is not the case that some run-of-the-mill community in the country can be allowed to build a competing district heating plant if they suddenly want to. In a free and open market where consumers have a genuinely free choice to decide for themselves where they want to buy their heat, companies and the market can be allowed to run the line. However, when consumers are forced to be the customer of a particular company, we as responsible politicians will have to keep the sector on a short leash. In order to do so, we need to have regulatory benchmarking of the entire district heating sector so that we can keep track of whether consumer money is spent as efficiently as possible. To this end, of course, we need data in a uniform and manageable format, where it is not the case today that it is not possible to see through the operation and economy of individual district heating companies. And this bill must then ensure that we get data that we can use to keep the district heating sector up to its obligation to supply heat to the consumer as efficiently as possible. The Liberal Alliance supports the bill because we want to make the district heating sector more efficient and because we want to keep the small local monopolies on a very short leash. According to the 2016 voting agreement, which forms part of the background to the bill here and of which the Liberal Alliance was originally not a part, industrial companies providing excess heat for district heating are exempted from regulation as they are already competitive and therefore have an incentive for efficient operation. According to a consultation answer from Dansk Erhverv, the exemption from regulation should be sector-neutral and should therefore be extended to all companies providing surplus heat, because the business sector is thus generally characterised by being competitive and efficient. This is a view supported by the Liberal Alliance, and I will therefore take it up for discussion in committee. As mentioned earlier, the Liberal Alliance supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124114410	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124114414	The Liberal Alliance's rapporteur considered it such that there are such sovereign kingdoms in the operation of district heating supply. Now we have just had a municipal election and elected new city councils, and the city councils typically have an opportunity to approve the investment framework for the local district heating supply, which is in many places municipal owned and municipal governed. So I don't think it's a reasonable consideration to call it absolute kingdoms. After all, we are dealing with an energy supply in which, as the rapporteur also admits, it is best to have only a grid for our district heating, so that there can be no total liberalism and two district heating networks for all consumers on the small residential roads. And I am glad that even the Liberal Alliance recognizes that there are limits to what liberalism can bring about bliss for the citizens of the municipalities. I don't think it's fair to think of this as absolute kingdoms. Will the rapporteur not recognise that, in this way, there is a municipal regulatory obligation and a municipal control of local heating plants?
ParlaMint-DK_20171124114517	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124114519	Yes, the rapporteur would very much like to acknowledge that. It is quite true that there is a certain degree of supervision and local democracy in the supply sector. Of course there is, and there must be. As I also said, these are local monopolies. This is not an open, free market where consumers can go to another competing district heating plant. And that is precisely why it is necessary to have these regulations and the regulatory benchmarking that this bill is dealing with; at least the data review in relation to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124114557	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124114559	The rapporteur referred to the aspects of excess heat from industry and the extent to which it will enter the district heating system. Does the rapporteur see any possibility of modelling this bill in order to ensure that more surplus heat can be used in our joint district heating supply?
ParlaMint-DK_20171124114617	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124114619	I'm not a hundred percent sure that will be necessary. The bill here seems to also include a de minimis limit, and I believe that the service companies such as supermarkets and other things that Danish Occupation is referring to here and which are not necessarily specifically mentioned • only industrial companies are specifically mentioned • fall below that de minimis limit and therefore are not covered by the regulation. But of course that's something we just need to solve one hundred percent.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124114652	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. We move on to Mr. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124114704	Normally I am in favour of a great deal of transparency and uniformity in such things as data on, for example. district heating, which is what this is all about. Here, however, I have some doubts as to whether this is the right way forward, i.e. whether this is really needed. I have proposed to my group that we should wait for this proposal, because there are in fact a number of the consultation answers which show that there are many concerns about the details. It is acting, for example. the fact that the requirements do not seem well thought out, that they can create inequality, distortion between the actors in the energy sector, and that the costs of introducing the systems described in the draft law are not at all commensurate with the benefits. So although the alternative generally wants to simplify and open up the data and seems that the idea of making a more transparent benchmarking could be good enough, this seems to be a system which is being built up and which, in fact, can create the opposite to some extent, i.e. an imbalance between and unequal treatment of the various players. That is why we should like to hear a little more in the work of the committee about what the idea is about, for example. to set down de minimis limits and keep the big ones free of certain things in this bill. I think it is unclear and imprecise what it will actually bring in benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124114838	Thank you. We move on to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124114846	Thank you. It is always exciting to be allowed to borrow a rapporteurship. Exactly in this area, I think I would just like to welcome the rapporteur for the SF and say that I have received a dosmer note. But I'm just trying to get by with that today. This proposal is about the implementation of the contracts on district heating that we ourselves have helped to conclude. It is a question of collecting data for benchmarking. It is admittedly quite expensive to secure these data, but they provide the basis for a significantly greater efficiency gain, although one can discuss whether it is actually going to be so expensive in the long run. Benchmarking must ensure an efficient district heating sector, and one could imagine that the alternative would be free competition, which could lead to higher prices, because some customers jump off and choose individual heating solutions, and then it would also be more expensive for the remaining customers, and this could lead to a really evil spiral. That is why we are also in favour of the draft law, which is part of an agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124114951	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mr. Orla Østerby of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124115001	Thank you. What we are discussing today with L 93, after all, is the regulation of the district heating sector, the future regulation, which must, of course, make the sector more efficient, based on what we know right now • 2.3 billion. kr. in 2025. With the law, we are, of course, giving the Energy Regulatory Authority the tools to provide the data base to be used to develop the economic regulation of the sector. The data available today is not good enough for the Danish Energy Agency to make this uniformity, and that is what we need the bill for. Specifically, it is necessary to provide a data base in order to develop revenue frameworks, efficiency comparisons, demonstrate efficiency in the sector and develop a benchmarking model. The draft law empowers the Danish Energy Agency to require district heating companies to provide standardised cost data and other relevant data. It is common sense that we should have uniformity here, so that we can go in to look at the efficiency of these works, because what is really at stake is the consumer, and we are on the consumer's side, which means that we must have as efficient a sector as possible. The Conservative People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124115123	Thank you. Then we move on to the Minister of Energy, Supply and Climate.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124115136	Thank you for that, President, and thank the rapporteurs for their comments on the draft law. On 7 April 2016, the government, together with a broad majority of the Danish Parliament's parties, decided that the Danish district heating sector should in future be subject to a new economic regulation. On 2 July 2017, the first vote agreement was followed by a new vote agreement. Together, the two voting agreements provide a clear framework for the future regulation of the district heating sector. The new regulation must contribute to the efficiency of the 2.3 billion sector. kr. in 2025 for the benefit of consumers. With this bill, we are taking the first step in the implementation of these agreements, giving the Energy Regulators the tools to provide a data base to develop a new economic regulation of the sector. This is also the first step towards ensuring the best possible framework for improving the efficiency and development of the district heating sector for the benefit of both Danish heat consumers and companies. Unfortunately, the data currently reported to the Energy Regulatory Authority do not have the extent to which it is needed and the quality and uniformity needed to develop key elements of the new economic regulation. Specifically, it is necessary to provide a data base in order to develop, inter alia: revenue framework, make efficiency comparisons, demonstrate efficiency in the sector and develop a benchmarking model. Therefore, the Energy Regulatory Bill empowers us to require district heating companies to provide standardised cost data and other relevant data. Unfortunately, the new requirements for inventory and data transmission are not without cost for companies. The same will apply to the conversion to a new accounting period for those undertakings which are not already following the calendar year. The administrative burdens that the sector will face in adapting to the new requirements will essentially be one-off costs. However, one-off costs must be compared with the fact that the draft law is a prerequisite for achieving the agreed target of 2.3 billion. kr. in sustainable efficiency improvements from 2025. I would like to emphasise that it is important for me that regulation does not burden businesses unnecessarily. I am therefore also referring to this point in the draft law. As you know, the district heating sector is complex, and therefore it is also important that the implementation and further development of the regulation that follows this bill will take place with close involvement of the industry. I am very pleased that, with this legislative proposal, we are taking the first step towards the development of the new economic regulation, which is intended to ensure a better and even more efficient district heating sector for consumers. Finally, I would like to thank you for the interest shown in the draft law here in the House today, and I look forward to continuing the constructive discussion on the individual elements of the committee, and I hope and ask for a favourable treatment of the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124115448	Thank you very much, Minister. We have a few brief comments to make. First, it is Mrs Karin Gaardsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124115452	Thank you. I would like to ask the Minister whether he will accept responsibility for the fact that the data collection that is to take place now will be carried out in a way that does not entail unnecessary costs for the works, for example. for the purchase of other IT systems.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124115512	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124115514	Thank you to Mrs Karin Gaardsted for her question. I'll do everything I can. I very much agree with what is in the question here. We have to do this in a way that ensures that this is done in the most effective way possible. Of course, I am also ready for a dialogue with Mrs Karin Gaardsted on how to do it as effectively as possible and without imposing unnecessary costs on the works.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124115534	Mrs. Karin Gaardsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124115536	I am very pleased to hear that, and I think it is also a good idea to talk to the industry about how best to do this, so that we get the information to the Ministry in a way that does not impose unnecessary costs on the industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124115554	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124115556	Thank you for that, and thank you for your cooperation on this, too. I am very aware that we are in a close dialogue with the industry on this. It is of course clear that the industry also has different views on this, but we are in a good and close dialogue about it, and it is the government's intention to do this in a way so that we do not impose unnecessary costs on the works.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124115614	Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124115617	Yes, as far as costs are concerned, it is estimated that it is somewhere between 42 and 184 million. kr., which is imposed on the sector in this process. I think it could be important to clarify in committee the extent to which it is possible to go for the lowest amount. Now the Minister mentioned that it is important to have an efficient district heating sector. I agree. But we also have security of supply. After all, we also have some goals to convert our district heating into something more sustainable. The Minister has signed an agreement himself, and the coals in our energy supply in Denmark must be phased out by 2030 at the latest. I think it would be reasonable also to relate to how to make the transition cheapest possible, and that it is not just a matter of having accounting policies that follow the same calendar year, so that you can make a tough benchmarking, but that you also have a focus on how to make the sustainable transition in the cheapest way. Can the Minister not see that, in this way, there is a blind spot in this bill, especially after the Minister has signed the phasing out of the coals by 2030 at the Bonn Climate Summit?
ParlaMint-DK_20171124115719	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124115721	Thank you to Søren Egge Rasmussen for the question. In fact, I agree with Enhedslisten's comments here. We have a focus on making this as cheap as possible, so we get as much green conversion as possible. I would also like to say that we have a focus on securing this, provided, of course, that security of supply is at the top of the list, as well as sustainability and the environment and health. In relation to the agreement we have made to phase out coal by 2030, I will enter into dialogue with the two works in Aalborg and Odense. By the way, last week I had a good dialogue with the President, who is from Mr Gundelach. Søren Egge Rasmussen's party, Enhedslisten, in Aalborg about the framework and possibilities for the work in Aalborg to be phased out. I also understand that in Aalborg, plans to phase out coal are in fact well advanced before 2030.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124115811	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124115813	Thank you for your answer. It says, of course, that it is the focus that is essential. And it may be even more important for what it is for a district heating price we have in the future, whether we are able to integrate more electricity into our district heating system, whether we are able to make the big investments in geothermal, which can enable us to pick up the free heat from the underground instead of importing chips from Africa and what else you can find and import coal. I think the focus is in the wrong place in this bill. Can the Minister not see that we must also bring this sustainable transformation into the priorities that are being made?
ParlaMint-DK_20171124115850	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124115852	After all, this bill is all about securing the data base for regulating the sector, that is. the ability to collect these data. All the other points raised by the questioner are, after all, matters that we are debating and discussing in other contexts.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124115909	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124115921	The debate is open. Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124115936	The purpose of the bill here is to tighten up the penalties for witness threats and vandalism, among others. surveillance cameras in exposed residential areas. First of all, I must say that it is extremely important to focus on the witnesses. In Odense we have seen how both homeless people, tattooers and others have been threatened by gang groups. I've met some of the victims who have ruined their lives because they've come out because they've helped the police. They are no longer afraid to be in their homes, they are afraid to walk on the streets and so all because they have contributed to the resolution of serious crime because they have said that they have been blackmailed or have been asked to pay protection money in other ways. We've also seen how police cameras have been smashed by the gangs. In the Odense district of Vollsmose they have been tampered with or directly destroyed by the gangs. Of course, that is not fair, and that is why it must have a tough consequence to be responsible for this type of crime. Firstly, the draft law proposes to increase the penalty for witness threats by one third in relation to the current level and, secondly, a proposal to increase the penalty for vandalism against things that serve to prevent or combat crime by half in relation to the penalty that would have been imposed in accordance with the rules that apply today. In the social democracy we can support both. However, as I have said so many times before here from this platform, and as I now repeat, punishment cannot stand alone. When you talk to the witnesses, it is clear that it is not enough for the perpetrator to be able to look forward to more severe punishment; we must also protect the witnesses much better than is the case today. For the fact that witnesses dare go to the police and experience that they are being protected is, of course, the prerequisite for them to do so. And that is the prerequisite for the police to get the statements that they can use to capture and prosecute the criminals. Some of the witnesses I have encountered in connection with the threats in Odense regret to this day that they helped the police. They have experienced a slow judicial system and appeals that are dragging on indefinitely, and they have not felt properly protected during the proceedings. They have not felt properly helped by the authorities, among others. with regard to the possibility of living in an alternative place while the cases were running. So, Minister, ladies and gentlemen here in the Folketing: we can simply do better, and we must do better. We support the proposal here today, but together let us find solutions to how to better protect the witnesses, in addition to punishing those who threaten them.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124120239	Thank you to the rapporteur, and we will move on to Mr Beazley's report. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124120246	Thank you. The proposal here translates into a political agreement on the gang package, which we, together with the Social Democracy and the Government, entered into here in the early summer, and the proposal contains two concrete initiatives. The first initiative aims to tighten up the penalties for threats to witnesses by one third. This is, of course, very good and, of course, it is a proposal that we can easily support. After all, we have been on the package all the way through. Threats to witnesses are totally unacceptable. Of course, we cannot accept the attempt to completely nullify our legal system and justice by recklessly threatening people who may know something. We should not accept that. We have to stand on the side of the witnesses. We're not gonna stand on the side of those gang criminals. So, are we going to get it right by adopting this one-third penalty? No, I think that's a little naive to believe. I think we have to face up to the fact that this is an area on which we must continue to focus and that it is not only the punishment of the gang members that threatens to solve it. There must be a great many initiatives to ensure that people can approach safely so that those who know something can help us put the gang criminals in prison. As the second initiative, it is proposed to tighten up the penalties for crime, which destroys the things that can be preventative or counter-crime. These may be camcorders which are specifically mentioned in the proposal. That's a really good idea. We in the Danish People's Party are very concerned about rolling out more video surveillance, which is why it is of course also unacceptable when people try to destroy it, both because it damages our security, but also because it is fighting us in the fight we are in, against organised crime, against the gangs. That is why, of course, we can also support this part of the proposal. So we support the proposal and thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124120448	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124120501	Thank you. I shall not extend Friday by repeating what the two previous rapporteurs have said about the proposal itself or the proposals; it is two proposals which are the implementation of a political agreement, as was rightly said by the previous rapporteur. The first proposal on the penalty for threats to witnesses, Paragraph 123 of the Penal Code, raises the penalty by one third. What does that mean in practice? Yes, of course there aren't two similar cases, but in practice you'll probably get three months in prison, for example, for threatening a witness. It is now 4 months, and it is not a day too little. This also means that you can, and indeed you can, even today, be held in custody in accordance with the rules in force in the Code of Civil Procedure if someone threatens the witnesses. The second part of the proposal is about vandalism against surveillance equipment. And what are we talking about here? These are, for example, cameras, alarms, street lighting, ATK equipment, automatic license plate recognition equipment, mobile police stations, booms, signs, etc., and the penalty increase is what happens at 50 per cent. vandalism against these things applies, regardless of who has set up the equipment, i.e. also if private people have set up surveillance equipment, to take that example. It is clear that the penalty also depends on the specific case, including its scope, its value, whether it has criminal penalties, whether it is organised, systematic vandalism, etc. But these are two of the proposals that came in August of the political agreement. These are two proposals which the Left welcomes with great pleasure.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124120653	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124120706	This bill, as the previous rapporteurs have said, is aimed at tightening up the penalties for certain forms of vandalism, and it is then a question of tightening up the penalties for the threat of witnesses. If we start with the witnesses' threats, it is true that today there is actually a criminal framework that is relatively harsh. As the comments on the bill show, we have legislation which means that we are talking about fines or prisons up to eight years. The proposal here then states that it is assumed that there will be a continuous increase in the penalty for witness threats by one third compared with the penalty that would be imposed today in the courts. However, it also says in direct continuation of the fact that, due to the variation in the various cases of witness threats, it is not possible to indicate a certain level of punishment for violations of Article 123 of the Criminal Code which is at issue. It is a little interesting to say that we would like to see a third increase in the penalty for witness threats, but we cannot be told here in the Folketing what the level is, then you want to raise it from. So this is a rather special situation, I think. Why is it not possible to specify a certain level of penalties for infringements? What I intend to ask, on behalf of the Enhedslisten, in connection with the committee procedure, is whether we can get examples from the last 10 or 20 cases of what the level of punishment has been, so that, at least before we start adopting legislation here in the Folketing on punishment, we can have an idea of what the basis is today. We may have to look at some punishments in relation to witness threats, but can we not do this at an enlightened level, rather than at legislation we are discussing, following on from the fact that the Minister of Justice comes up with 12 points in connection with a pending gang war in Copenhagen? One way to do this was to let the Criminal Code Council assess it and look at the legislation in general. Another possibility could be to get the Ministry of Justice's research office to look into the matter and make a report and make recommendations. This would be a serious way of dealing with this in relation to the totally unacceptable situations that occur on a regular basis. However, could we not have a more enlightened basis for taking this debate and adopting legislation? Then there is the second part of the bill, which deals with tightening up the penalties for certain forms of vandalism. They're security cameras, street lighting and other things. There I think it is important to look at the consultation answer given by the Østre Landsret in this regard. They state that the scope of the provision is, for example, that: In relation to street lighting, it is estimated that there are some delimiting problems. In other words, street lighting is a crime prevention measure, or is it something that has been done so that cyclists do not have to drive into each other at night, for example.? There is simply some ambiguity in the draft law. Again, it is also a little unclear what exactly it will mean that we want to increase the penalty here too. Although we may be more positive about the first part of witness threats, this is, in my view, another legislative proposal, in the light of such a punishment logic in the field of justice, where we are constantly discussing, by means of hugging, punishments in individual areas that pop up in continuation of cases pending in the media, rather than having a factually solid basis to discuss how we can make our legislation. Once again, it is also an area in which we have to ask what the evidence is that it will have a crime prevention effect if we choose to increase the penalty in this area. It is also an essential element in discussing these matters. So we think it might be nice to discuss these things, but could we not get those discussions on a more qualified and enlightened basis than the one underlying this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20171124121141	Thank you to the rapporteur. And we move on to Mrs Christina Egelund, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124121156	Thank you. With this bill, we're gonna make the lives of those gangs that make life insecure for a lot of people more suck. We do that by pushing them on some of the things that keep the gangs alive. If we put an end to the reign of terror exercised by the gangs, where they frighten local traders and ordinary citizens from telling the police what is going on, then we take away one of their most important tools. If the gangs cannot operate in peace and the citizens dare to say no again, then their work will be more difficult. It is absolutely essential for the work of the police that people dare and dare to stand up to the gangs and other criminals and witnesses. And I fully understand that citizens, for example. Nørrebro or in the northwest is scared from the wild and does not always dare to come forward. That is what we as a society must help them to do, for example. by deterring gangs from threatening citizens to silence. As I said, it is one of the most important weapons of the gangs that they can perform their actions under the radar. That's why we also see how they destroy surveillance cameras so that the police can't figure out where they're going, and they're smashing street lights so they can hide in the dark and spread even more insecurity. The Liberal Alliance supports the bill because punishments are one of the tools we can use to tighten the loop around the gangs' necks. It is absolutely essential for the many citizens who are being threatened with silence and who are rightly afraid and insecure that we put an end to the ravages of the gangs, and this bill is a step on the way to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124121336	Thank you to the rapporteur and we will move on to Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124121343	Thank you. We are here today to consider proposals for a law amending the criminal code, tightening up the penalties for witness threats and certain forms of vandalism. Firstly, the Minister for Justice wishes to increase the penalty for witness threats by one third compared with the penalty previously imposed by the courts, and secondly, the penalty for certain forms of vandalism will be increased. In fact, we would really like to have dealt with these two issues in two separate legislative proposals, both for the sake of the quality of the law, but also because we believe that different things are being mixed together here, which it would have been appropriate to take in separate legislative proposals. In a rule of law such as Denmark, witnesses are a prerequisite for a well-lit trial, and it is quite clear that it weakens our legal system if you threaten witnesses and if the witnesses fear reprisals if they speak out. That is why we have rules that protect witnesses from threats and reprisals. According to the National Association of Defence Attorneys, this today gives approx. 60 days of unconditional imprisonment, if you threaten a witness, and in reality, if you look at it, it is a relatively severe punishment compared to what you call the ordinary threat, that is, a threat posed to people other than witnesses, even if you compare it with the practice of simple violence, which gives approximately 30 to 60 days of unconditional imprisonment. Fortunately, this testifies to the fact that we are already taking seriously threats made to witnesses. What you want to do here in the draft law is to tighten up the sentence for the threat of witnesses by a third, which means that in a case such as this one, there is one. Today will give 3 months in prison, in future 4 months in prison. It could be said that such a general tightening up in reality would seem disproportionate if there were no specific examples or specific circumstances to justify the tightening up. It is of course no secret that in the alternative we are generally reluctant to tighten up penalties without knowing whether it will in fact affect the behaviour of criminals and the general public in a positive direction. Indeed, we would like to see only penalties being imposed when it makes sense and not simply because of our feelings and indignation about what is happening. On the other hand, we have here a case in which we are discussing the fact that a perpetrator is threatening witnesses, and here we are discussing the sense of justice of the witness who is being threatened and, as I mentioned at the outset, it is absolutely crucial that we have a society in which we dare to testify. That's why we're all together in relation to this part of the bill in the Alternative... what do you say? The second part of the bill is then about tightening up the penalties for certain forms of vandalism, and the punishment applies to vandalism against things that serve to prevent and combat crime. According to the notes to the bill, it is everything from vandalism against surveillance cameras, alarms, street lighting, automatic license plate recognition, automatic speed control, mobile local police stations, booms and road signs, etc. After the bill, the penalty must then be increased by half as a starting point. Common to the things to which the punishment should apply, it is stated that it is in order to prevent or combat crime. In addition to the fact that the things mentioned here in the draft law serve to prevent and combat crime, it is also intended that the things set up have an effect on security and the fight against crime, which justifies the punishment. My comment on that part of the bill is that the examples of things that will be included in the punishment, for example. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to biological agents at work. That is also one of the points that the Østre Landsret makes in their hearing answer. Secondly, we find that the wording of hard work committed against things that serve to prevent or combat crime is very, very broadly worded, and it can really include everything. Thirdly, we believe that the current penalties for fines and imprisonment for 1 year and 6 months and imprisonment for 6 years reflect quite well the seriousness of the vandalism against these measures already today. So, as I have also mentioned at the outset, we are slightly behind the first part and, in the second part, we think that the level is really good today. So I would like to ask the Minister for Justice if there could be any question of dividing up the bill, and in fact, regardless of the answer, we would like to continue working on this whole bill in the further committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124121911	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we go on to Mrs Zenia Stampe, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124121921	We are generally positive about the intention of the draft law, but we think that it suffers from the problem that part of the proposals from the Ministry of Justice suffers from: vagueness and imprecise demarcations. If we start with the proposal to increase the penalty for vandalism against things that serve to prevent or combat crime, then we fully agree with the intention. It is much more serious, then, to vandalize against something that prevents crime or even helps to combat crime. One can discuss whether it should be called vandalism at all or whether it really is not obstruction of police work. When I say that, it is also because the problem we have with this part of the proposal, which we are actually very positive about, is the demarcation, the clarification. Because what are these things? Is it street lighting that Enhedslisten mentioned, or can it be other things? And there I think it might be possible to consider whether we should not make a clarification that it is in cases where this vandalism is committed with the intention of obstructing the work of the police, that is to say, preventing this preventive or combative action in relation to crime, so that it is not simply vandalism that you punish so hard. That could be a way to do it. Around the increase in the penalty for threats to witnesses, we again believe that the proposal suffers from a high degree of ambiguity. It is clear today that fines and prison sentences can be imposed for up to eight years, but it is also the case that if the threat is part of a gang conflict or is related to gang crime, the penalty can be increased by up to twice, i.e. 16 years. Is it then on top of that that one can increase it by a third? It is a little uncertain because the only help that the Ministry of Justice has given us in its comments is a calculation, namely that if you get a three-month penalty today, it will be four months in the future, but we don't know for what. I think it makes a really big difference whether we're talking 3-4 months or whether we're talking 3-4 years. And again: is this a punishment which can then be raised to double because it is in the area of gang crime, which can then be raised by one third above? So it's just an unsightly way of doing law, yes, I don't know what the lawyers are saying, but as a layman, and yet it's us who are pointing the way, so I think it's approaching Sudoku policy or something. It's incredibly hard to see through here from Parliament's platform, and when you're sitting and preparing for what this really means, that is, these punishments. So we agree with the intention, because we know the consequences for many witnesses. The truth is that no matter what we do with the punishments, it cannot at all compensate for the damage that it has caused the witnesses to be threatened in these situations. But we would like to ask something more about this in the course of the discussion, and we would like to see a number of examples of what specific punishment various threats have caused, so it is not just a calculation, but it is also based on reality in Denmark's courtrooms. Then we also have the general reservation in relation to punishments, that we do not believe that it helps a great deal, that is, 3-4 months or 3-4 years, what difference does it make? However, we have so much respect for the witnesses that we think that, for their sake, we are sending the signal that this is something we are looking at very seriously. So we would like to be involved in this issue if we could be a little more specific, but of course also with the realization that it probably has no sort of preventive effect at all. But it certainly sends a signal to the witnesses that this is an area we are looking at very seriously and that we have very much sympathy for them in their situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124122358	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124122406	If you had to make a list of the most important tasks of the rule of law, witness protection might not be number one, but it would be on the list. Without witnesses justice simply cannot be done. With the gang conflict the position of witnesses has once again been postponed, and as late as April we witnessed a 15-year-old boy being chased through Ejstrupholm by four spruce-grown men because they thought he was going to testify. He had nothing to do with it. When even a suspicion of witnessing can trigger threats of violence, there is a need to put an extra thick line under the fact that, as a society, we do not accept that kind of attack on a cornerstone of our justice system. In the SF we take pride in being on the victim's side, and we fully sympathize with the immediate optimism of the victim's counsel in relation to a stronger protection of witnesses. The SF is therefore also in favour of the proposal, but punishment cannot stand alone. Effective witness protection, as the Social Democratic Party also notes, is still the most important effort if you are to feel safe, while punishment is merely symptom treatment. Similarly, we also share the desire of other rapporteurs to prevent vandalism, despite the fact that criminals must also be held accountable. In the SF we look forward to the further examination of the proposal by the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124122535	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mr. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124122542	In August of this year, the Minister for Justice presented 12 initiatives to combat the gang conflict in Copenhagen and the rest of the country. In addition to strengthening the investigative capacity, the presence of the police and preventive action, it was also suggested that we should be better at protecting witnesses in gang and bicker-related crime. This part is reflected in the legislative proposal we are debating today. Witnesses are crucial in any criminal case, but when it comes to gang-related crime, one cannot imagine the witness in fearing reprisals. Therefore, we must ensure that witnesses can feel safe and know that threats and witness dismay are unacceptable. It is the responsibility of the authorities to ensure the safety of citizens. We must not allow the gangs and their supporters to set the agenda in any part of the country. That is why I am pleased that the government and the Minister for Justice are taking concrete action on the issues that we are facing. In the Conservative People's Party, we will not tolerate some who believe that they are above the law. For these hard-boiled types, there is only one thing that works, and that is consistency. We support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124122705	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124122709	Thank you. I would also like to thank the rapporteurs for the most positive contributions that have been made. Based on the level of conflict in the gang environment, which has escalated during the summer, the government has presented 12 new initiatives on 11 August 2017 to strengthen the fight against gang and rocker-related crime. Two of these initiatives will be implemented with this bill. These are initiatives to tighten up the penalties for witness threats and certain forms of vandalism. It is essential for the investigation and fight against gang and biker-related crime that all witnesses of crimes in the gang environment contribute with their knowledge and observations. That is why we also need to ensure a secure environment for witnesses, and so I can be pleased to see that the Danish Parliament is now putting the finishing touches to a testimonial that will ensure that it has more wanted here today, so a much broader approach than what we are just discussing here today, and I look forward to having a discussion of this together. We have already been in contact with several different stakeholders in this area. This concerns, among other things: on Offering advice in Denmark and the National Association Help Victims of Violence. In relation to vandalism against surveillance cameras, street lighting or other things that serve to prevent or combat crime, it is important that there is no vandalism against these things, as it has a negative impact on security and crime in the area. The bill therefore seeks to strengthen the protection of witnesses so that the penalty for witness threats is increased by one third in relation to the current level, and the bill also calls for the punishment of vandalism against surveillance cameras, street lighting or other things that serve to prevent or combat crime to be tightened up. With those comments, I would once again like to thank the rapporteurs for the various speeches, and I look forward to answering the questions that have also been announced here today, and to being able to give clear and clear answers during the committee's proceedings, if need be.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124122921	As far as I can see, there are also a few questions in here. There are, for the time being, two who have signed up for short remarks. The first is Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124122931	Thank you. And thank you to the Minister. I always get a little worried when the minister says he's making a move. We saw in connection with the burglary that was to come that it then barely contained anything beyond just a few punishments. But, of course, we look forward to the Minister bringing some of what I also wanted in my rapporteur's speech. That is why my question to the Minister is: when can we expect this proposal to be presented? And does this include the elements that I also addressed in my speech, precisely the protection of housing, that is to say, to be able to move and protect witnesses and make sure that the trials come on quickly so that the witnesses do not have to go on insecure for a very long time?
ParlaMint-DK_20171124123019	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124123021	Now, of course, this has nothing to do with this proposal, but I think that Mrs Trine Bramsen should be given points in order to try to make the Minister stand today and reveal what is then in the proposal that is coming very shortly. I think I will make the joy of expectation great. And I am quite sure or believe that politics is not such that when we bring it up, Mrs Trine Bramssen will say that it is absolutely fantastic and just everything one might want to see there will be recognition that at least we have listened widely to some of the things that have been raised. But it's not gonna be today that I'm gonna reveal what it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124123054	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124123056	Well, now it's not for me that we have to tighten the conditions for the witnesses. It's kind of because there are witnesses out there right now who are beating up scared and fearing for their lives every day and who regret having chosen to go to the police. That's why I'm just very concerned that this isn't something that comes a long way in the future. So if the Minister can come a little closer to when the things that we can see need to be strengthened, among other things. The protection of the witnesses is the opportunity to find a place of residence for them while this is on, the opportunity to conduct these trials more quickly, the possibility of video interrogation of the witnesses, so that they do not have to go to the torment bench again and again, it would be good. Is it on this side of Christmas or on the other side of Christmas? Because then I will certainly be able to deliver that message to those witnesses who right now feel so insecure.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124123149	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124123150	That's where I'd like to move out and say that the game is coming before Christmas.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124123158	There are now three brief comments, and the first is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124123202	Thank you to the Minister for the speech. I would also like to ask about this testimony, because what I really wanted was that you could see things in a context. That is why I am actually surprised that the Minister is putting forward the part of the bill on witness protection now before the witness show comes. Isn't there a link between things, and can the Minister really ensure that things are linked so that we get it as a package of witness protection?
ParlaMint-DK_20171124123232	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124123233	I have so much confidence in the Parliament's ability to understand things that I do not think it will be a completely confusing process if one thing is adopted today and another package will come along. One should remember that we were in a very serious situation and we are still doing so away where the bullets flew around our ears, and we discussed what we could do for the witnesses. Then there is an action that is taking place here today and, incidentally, we have allowed ourselves to take the time to talk to some of the stakeholders in that area, because I think it is actually important to listen to what the people who work with this every day say. That is what we have spent some time on, and that is what will be included in our proposals in the light of these discussions. But we do not think it should stop us from adopting this. At least it's in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124123318	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124123320	I think it is superpositive that the government has taken the time to talk to those who actually know something about things. The Minister must not actually misunderstand me. I think it's a really good idea to have a witness play. I would just like us to see things in a context, because, as several rapporteurs have also mentioned from the platform, it is not the fact that the measured penalty is raised by a third, which necessarily deters a person from threatening witnesses. There is far, far more to it, and that is why I think it would be so nice if things were in a context, so that there were both some preventive measures and some concrete measures for witnesses, for example. that they could be video-interrogated, etc., and then maybe also a punishment sharpening, instead of we have to pick it up into sub-elements. So I would recommend to the Minister that we link it all together.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124123404	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124123406	Yes, but this debate will soon be about something that is not really part of what we are discussing. Well, we haven't made a witness play yet in the government. We'll be there soon, and then I'll be looking forward to discussing it. What we are dealing with today is because we thought it was important to send out the signal as a society quickly, that witnesses are something we must protect and that it should cost something extra if you threaten witnesses.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124123430	The next brief remark is Mrs Zenia Stampe, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124123434	It is simply to understand what we may be voting in favour of. Let's say you've threatened a person and this person is related to a gang. A common threat would have given 3 years, so it could be increased to twice as much, i.e. six years if it were part of a gang dispute, and this proposal then makes it possible for the penalty to be increased by one third further, it would then be eight years, the calculation does not matter. But is it true that we then have such a stair model, where we actually have three terms, that is to say the penalty plus an increase plus an increase, or how is that to be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20171124123517	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124123518	It must be understood as it is, that is, we are raising the penalty by a third. I would also like to call on the author to ask some very specific questions which we can answer during the committee procedure, because I would very much like to do so in order to give some examples. I understand that some people are saying: what does this really mean? The problem is that it depends on the nature of crime, the nature of the threat, what it means. That is why we cannot just give one answer from the platform, and that is why I would very much like to give a number of examples.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124123552	The questioner's second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124123553	I have great sympathy for the Minister of Justice. I don't quite know about that iron fist, which isn't exactly our cup of tea, but I think that Mr. Cole... Søren Pape Poulsen is a sympathetic man. But I just have to say that this is not the first time we have a debate on austerity, in which the Minister is not entirely able to explain the consequences of these austerity measures. That just confirms to me that it is purely symbolic policy. It's just saying that now we're tightening up further. And then you come with a percentage without even knowing what that percentage will mean in practice. That is fair enough; we are asking a lot of questions and we also think that this is an important area. But to fight blindly or to tighten blindly we simply think that we are unqualified.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124123647	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124123649	I think that is a completely unreasonable way of making policy, that is to say to expect the Minister to be able to stand here and mention all the penalties and the possible and impossible things in it and what that will lead to. Well, Mrs Zenia Stampe knows just as well as I do that when you take the punishment people should have, it is also about the nature of the crime and what it means. And that's why you can't just give one answer to it. I don't understand. I don't want that to be turned into a big conflict. In other words, if you can get all the answers you want by asking the questions, I would really, really like to ensure that you get the answers. But I think it is rather crazy to say that this is exactly where the penalty is, because that depends on the nature of the crime.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124123731	Sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124123734	I think it is a good thing that the government is going to come up with a real package instead of bringing it here alone, because I think this is a good idea that it will be possible to supplement it on a number of points in order to provide better witness protection. Of course, we also have some suggestions or input on how to do that. But I'm curious about the government's initiative and what could be in it. One of the things that concerns us is that there are a number of things that are different, but one of the things that has been particularly interesting to us lately is that these gang members are spreading a lot, a lot of insecurity, among other things. among the witnesses, when they stand outside the courtrooms and when they pose in the media. We simply find this unacceptable. So does the proposal made by the government contain a way in which we can make the very treatment of these witnesses nicer, more secure, or is there nothing like that?
ParlaMint-DK_20171124123826	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124123827	Without standing here and saying what our proposal contains, I would like to say that it is clear that the focus is on the fact that witnessing must be safe. Stand on the side of society must be safe. We have some suggestions for that. And I am very convinced that much of what we bring will be something that Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen thinks is a really good idea. Then we will have to discuss how, because we will have to obtain a majority in favour of the proposals we are making. But I believe that it will, as a starting point, accommodate several of the thoughts that I normally hear from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124123905	The questioner with a second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124123907	I have to be very specific, because every time the government says that you bring something that is good, it ends up just like the issue of juvenile delinquency, where, to put it mildly, we were not very impressed. But to take another concrete example, which I hope the government will take in the hat when it comes to presenting its own game, I would say that we in Denmark have not been very good at actually using the opportunities we have, for video interrogations use it as a tool so that people do not necessarily have to sit face to face with these people in the courts around. So perhaps I could just hurry here before my speaking time runs out to shoot it on the field and ask the Minister: what does the Minister think about that, and is that something that will be taken forward in the package?
ParlaMint-DK_20171124123948	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124123950	We have sometimes had such an exercise here, where I say that now comes a package, and then there comes an interrogation of me as to what then comes in that package. I am not saying that in advance. I would just like to repeat what I have said: I know that Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen was not a hundred percent enthusiastic about all this youth crime issue, so I hope we bring something here where the enthusiasm is a little greater.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124124012	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. And if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124124031	The debate is open. And the first to speak is the Minister of Justice, who of course needs time to find the right papers. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124124057	Thank you. The motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party aims to impose a bill on the government banning so-called child sex dolls. The reason for the proposal is, in particular, that the proposers believe that it is completely abnormal and unacceptable behaviour if a person finds sexual satisfaction by means of a child sex doll and that this can support a paedophile tendency. There should be no doubt that I fully share the views of the proposers on these child sex dolls. I find it abhorrent that anyone has ever thought of producing such dolls and will in every way distance themselves from them, as I have already said in this Chamber. There should be no doubt that sexual abuse of children is, in my opinion, one of the most disgusting and unforgivable crimes a person can commit. That is why we must do everything we can to prevent such abuses. So we are at the jumping point: what do these dolls mean in relation to sexual abuse of children? And to clarify this, earlier this year I asked the Ministry of Justice to contact a number of stakeholders with expert knowledge of the problem. On this basis, the Ministry of Justice has first obtained an opinion from Sexologisk Clinic and the Visitation and Treatment Network. The clinic has to answer the Ministry's request, among other things. contacted a number of the world's leading researchers in the field, and they have also conducted a comprehensive literature search. The opinion of the clinic shows that there are no scientific studies which directly illustrate whether child sex puppets increase the risk of child abuse. In other words, there is no evidence that these dolls lead to child abuse. After receiving the opinion from Sexologisk Clinic and the Visitation and Treatment Network, we sent it in consultation with among others. Children's Council, Children's Terms and Save the Child, and none of the three organizations have recommended criminalisation. All in all, the conclusion of the hearing carried out by the Ministry of Justice is that, on the basis of existing knowledge, there is no clear professional basis for criminalisation. As I said at the outset, I take the sharpest distance from these dolls. I think it is reprehensible that they exist and I look forward to the further examination and discussion of the motion for a resolution in committee, because I think we need to have even more knowledge in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124124356	There are two entries at this time, and the first to a brief remark is Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124124403	What we are discussing here today is actually very serious. Danish customs officials have found baby dolls, and in Norway baby dolls have also been found wearing baby clothes. The aim is to be able to use them for sexual exploitation. What we are discussing here today is whether we can just watch while things like this are going on. In Norway a ban has been imposed, and it was well over 20 that were imposed last year as a result of this ban, some who were paedophiles, and others that the police spotted working with children. Does the Minister not think that it is important that such legislation can be used to spot someone who buys these dolls and who works with children, so that it might be possible to prevent them from attacking children in real life?
ParlaMint-DK_20171124124454	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124124456	I very much agree that this is actually so serious that it requires, I think, that we are getting even smarter about it. Now Mrs Trine Bramsen came up with some information and arguments here which I think are interesting to look at, and that is what I hope you can do in the further work. Because my focus isn't about whether I think these dolls are disgusting or not. They are disgusting, and I do not think there are two opinions on that in this Chamber, and I cannot even imagine there are two opinions on that. But what I just want to be absolutely sure of, i.e. as sure as you can now become, is that we will not produce legislation that can lead to more abuse of children, and I just want to be absolutely sure of that. So it's from my honest point of view that I just want to be sure in my case and learn more about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124124550	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124124552	At any rate, I find it interesting that in Norway this ban has been used to spot someone who works with children and who has then had the opportunity to keep an extra eye on before they end up attacking children in real life. But I would like to ask the Minister whether he has examined what the experience in Norway is, as I know, there have been no more paedophiles in Norway because of the ban on sex dolls. So has the Ministry investigated what the consequences of the ban in Norway have been?
ParlaMint-DK_20171124124622	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124124623	In the first place, we have asked for a statement from Sexological Clinic, which refers to a large number of researchers, and then we have heard these organisations, and I think that some of what will be relevant is to examine exactly what Mrs Trine Bramsen mentions and to look into what is in Norway and what is elsewhere about it. Well, we only have one interest, and that's that we're gonna be smartest on this so we can make the right decisions. Instinctively, I guess I just felt that you have to ban something like this, but after I've read the hearings from among others. These players, I think, will be a little more in doubt as to which way is the right one to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124124705	Then it's mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124124708	Immediately after we became aware of this situation in MetroXpress last December, we raised this matter with the government for the then new Minister of Justice and now almost a year has been spent on coming up with the hearing answers that lie here, and we still cannot fully shed light on, among other things. Mrs Trine Bramsen's question about the Norwegian examples. I just have to say, I don't think the government has delivered in this area. I'm actually rather disappointed that you've spent a year trying to figure out that you don't really know what to think about this. I am, of course, pleased that the government says that you share the view, that is to say that you think it is abhorrent and that you distance yourself from it. I agree with that. But that is moralism, and I think that if you want to be a moralist and you can be a moralist, you just have to use the legislative instruments that we have. It's fine to say it's disgusting. It is good to say that the intention is shared in the proposal, and it is good to say that we are opposed, but it must also involve legislative initiatives. Otherwise, it's a free round. What's it gonna take for the government to support this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20171124124812	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124124813	However, I would like to say to Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen, I think this proposal is a little beyond what we are discussing in this Chamber. For what I have alone! It's not like I'm going to pull this or try to avoid anything. It's just that we need to be safe. This is really serious, and that is why I would just like to have even more knowledge and that we have even more wise people involved in the committee procedure who could say what the meaning will be. Can we say with certainty what effect this will have on children? Are we getting less abuse? Can we find the pedophiles better? Or do we perhaps get more abuse of children by this ban? I think that is what must be the discussion. At least it is for me.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124124919	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124124921	Well, that's the discussion, too. That is how we can prevent and take action against child abuse. The interesting thing is that right now we have a line where you can just buy these dolls. We have not fully explained the consequences of this. There is disagreement if you ask the wise people if you ask the experts. So my question to the Minister is: would it not be sensible for there to be this dispute between the experts, and one does not really know what the consequences are, so to reverse the situation and say that the starting point must then be that this is prohibited rather than that the starting point must be that it is legal? I just think the government is swapping these two basic settings.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124125003	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124125004	I understand the questioner's concern and approach to it. I also just get worried and much in doubt when I see the hearing answers from the Children's Terms, Save the Child and others. That is why I say that I think this proposal is a little beyond what else we are dealing with in here. Because these are serious matters we are dealing with. It is also generally, but I just think this is the way to the edge where we have to be very, very careful. I do not need either to prohibit or not to prohibit; my only starting point is what this means for the children. And I hope that we can take it one step closer in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124125048	Thank you, Minister. We are embarking on the series of rapporteurs and the first rapporteur is Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democrat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124125057	The proposal here requires the government to propose before the end of this parliamentary assembly a law banning child sex dolls so that these dolls are covered by section 235 of the Criminal Code. I have to say that when I first heard of such dolls a year ago, it was with great discomfort and lack of understanding of how anyone could even get himself to obtain such dolls, a lack of understanding for both those who produce the dolls and those who demand the dolls, but also that it is all legal today in Denmark and that they are traded in a very large number. In the social democracy, we agree that a ban on sex dolls does not make paedophilia disappear. We do not imagine it, and we have also read the consultation answers from the organisations, where most people say that they have no knowledge of it, so they do not know whether it weighs one way or the other. But we cannot be passive spectators that sexual fantasies about children exploited by adult men are freely sold and delivered into Denmark. That is why we support the proposal here. What has been crucial to our position on the proposal has been the experience of Norway, which shows that, by being able to deal with those who buy the dolls, we have been able to spot someone who has already been convicted of paedophilia once and has thus not been cured, even though they have been treated. Then they have been given treatment sentences, so they have had their fantasies remedied. However, a large number of people have also been spotted who were not already in the police eye and who actually worked with children. That is what is really important to us: that we see very early those who could be potential perpetrators in terms of attacking children. At the same time, however, I would like to say that we do not believe that it solves the problem of paedophilia. That is why we must continue to have a great deal of focus on this, and we should also very much like to look into the area further so that we can stop it, especially before it becomes a real abuse. Thus, our support for the proposal here will also be a call to the Minister of Justice both to investigate the area further and to become far better at preventing and dealing with paedophiles. But that means you have to see those who have these fantasies. We also think it is important that the penalty for possession of these dolls should be a court order, so that you do not just get a fine sent through the door or go to prison, but that you are actually cured of the sick fantasies you may have. With these considerations we have had many of them, and with those words I must say that we can support the proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124125403	One has a brief comment to make. Sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124125407	I would just like to thank the Socialist rapporteur for his support for the proposal and say that the ideas of the Social Democrats, of sanctions against people who use these dolls, we can work well on in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, and we are very much in agreement with them. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124125425	The rapporteur. No, there was no answer. Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124125435	Thank you. It is rare for us here in the Folketing to have a proposal on a subject on which we can say that we have the same objective. We have the same objective as the proposal here, namely to prevent child abuse as far as possible. It has been emphasized to the full by both the Minister and the Social Democrat rapporteur that this is one of the most terrible crimes that exists at all. So, yes, we have the same objective, and this is about preventing child abuse, and we must do everything that can be done for it. We are already doing so in criminal law today. We have seen examples of this with the judgment that fell last week, which was sentenced to up to 10 years in prison, and we should continue to do so, and there should be no waltzes at all. So we have to do what can be done to prevent child abuse. The problem is that we sit 179 in this Parliament, and I don't think any of us can call us experts in this area, i.e. experts in the field of what is best to do when we all want to achieve the common goal. This is one of the options that has been put forward, and it is certainly worth considering, let me hurry to say it. It is important, however, that we do not allow our own outrage at the disgusting things that are taking place to overshadow what is actually the objective. The goal is the child's best interests. The fact that the rest of us are offended may mean that we can live with, but that the child is abused is difficult to live with for the child in the future. With the in mind, and also with what I said earlier, that none of us are experts in terms of means, I think it is excellent that the Ministry of Justice has sought to present the problem to people who are smarter than us in here, and there are fairly clear statements from Save the Child, Children's Council and Children's Conditions that criminal regulation may be problematic. We fear, as the Children's Council says, more abuse of children, if a ban is imposed, in other words, it is estimated that those concerned can sort out their desires through the dolls and not through the children, and, if that is right, of course, we should not ban the dolls. I think that is quite clear. It has also been presented to Sexological Clinic, which says that there is no specific evidence that the use of sex dolls can lead people to commit sexual abuse on children. So summa summarum we have to say here that it is very difficult to make a final decision on it. As far as the Left is concerned, we cannot support the proposal on this basis. We choose to follow expertise, as its opinions are presented here. Having said that, however, it is also important for me to say that our decision has been taken on the basis of this, because there may well be other studies and opinions, and then, of course, we are quite ready to look at the matter again. We have exactly the same objective as the authors of the motion for a resolution here, namely to limit the number of attacks on children. So we are ready to look at it, and on the Left side we would say that an expert hearing in this area combined with a report and then a joint statement by the parliamentary parties or those who are behind it, and I think that is actually all of us here in Things • think we are actually a viable way to what is the common goal, namely to prevent child abuse.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124125839	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124125844	One of the things the rapporteur noticed was the consultation responses that had come and the expert assessments that were, and specifically Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen the opinion that is from Sexological Clinic, who has gained experience and talked to some of the leading experts in the world. That's where I'm gonna hear Mr. Knox. Preben Bang Henriksen, if he cannot confirm that it is also apparent from the note made by Sexological Clinic that one cannot rule out that there is also a group of paedophiles who, one might say, do not enter the narrow path of the law again and stop with their sick association with children, precisely because one can keep this focus on children through the dolls. You can't deny that either. When the two things are put before each other, that is to say the rapporteur's argument and the argument I am making here, I just do not understand why we do not then choose to reverse the situation and say that the starting point must be that this kind of thing is forbidden. Then we can always hold hearings, or we can talk to experts and then figure out what the line should be. But the starting point must be a ban.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124125953	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124125955	I can confirm that, as Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen asks, namely, the statement here from Sexological Clinic, it is, as far as I remember, on 7 pages. I'm sure there's also evidence of what Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen mentioned that, but I must quote from it: there is therefore no evidence that the consumption of fictitious images of sexual abuse of children or the use of sex dolls similar to children, that is, material produced and used without specific children being subjected to abuse, can only lead people to commit sexual abuse against children. I'm gonna give Mr. Knox. Peter Kofod Poulsen is right that this statement can be interpreted in different ways, but then I think that Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen must agree with me that in the other statements from, for example, the Children's Conditions, the Children's Council and Save the Children's Council, in any case, we are very clear about this, and I think it is too serious a matter for us to take a decision on a basis that is not fully informed. I think we should have an expert hearing, so we are absolutely sure that we are doing what is best for the children.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124130102	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124130114	We can easily take a hearing on this subject, and I am pleased that the rapporteur agrees with me that the note from Sexological Clinic makes it clear that this is both ways. So there are the arguments of the rapporteur and there are my arguments, and it is very difficult on the basis of the expertise that there is to conclude something unambiguous. And that's just where we seem to disagree. We say that the starting point must be a ban and, unfortunately, the Left thinks otherwise, if I understand the rapporteur correctly.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124130135	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124130139	I said in my rapporteur's speech that, on this basis, we could not support it, but I hope I also made it quite clear that we are not arguing in the Left. So we are not against the arguments and opinions that are already there, but we will not be against the outcome of an expert hearing either. If it leads to the conclusion that it is most likely that a ban is good for children and leads to fewer abuse of children, then we are clearly in favour of the proposal and of that idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124130207	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124130222	Thank you for that, President. On this basis, as it stands today, we on the part of the Enhedslisten, following on from the position of the government to the debate here today, will take up the consultation responses that we have received from the Children's Council, Children's Conditions and Save the Children's Board, where they conclude on the basis of this that there is a lack of research in this area and that they are therefore currently lacking. do not recommend a ban in this area. The positions and arguments of these organisations weigh very heavily on us. Our starting point is that the legislation we are going to make must lead to a reduction in child abuse, not more, but more. And in line with what the rapporteur of the Left has presented and what the Minister for Justice has presented today, we look forward to diving more into the issue of committee work, and we would also like to see an expert hearing.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124130326	Thank you to the rapporteur. I do not see that there are short remarks. We'll continue in the series of speeches. This is Mrs Christina Egelund as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124130338	Thank you. With this motion for a resolution, the Danish People's Party raises some of our greatest responsibility as legislators, namely to protect citizens from abuse and specifically to protect children from sexual abuse. On the scale of serious issues this is at the very heavy end, which is why we also need to think carefully. The proposers want to impose a ban on child sex dolls on the government. If there were certainty that a ban would prevent just one physical abuse of a child, we in the Liberal Alliance would not hesitate for a second to endorse the proposal. But there isn't that certainty. On the contrary, it has also been referred to by others it cannot be ruled out that such a ban would result in more children being subjected to abuse. It's a tough case. I think, like Save the Child, Children's Conditions and Children's Council, that there is a need for us to acquire a better knowledge base before we may move to legislation, especially when the consequences of the legislation are as uncertain as it is and, of course, in particular, because the uncertain consequences can be unfortunately fatal to innocent children. That is why we in the Liberal Alliance are leaning on the recommendations of the aforementioned organisations and will not recommend that a ban be introduced by law until we are more aware of the consequences for those children whose safety I know we are deeply concerned about in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124130532	There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124130540	Thank you. We are dealing here with motion for a resolution No. B 20 to criminalise child sex dolls so that they are covered by the prohibition in section 235 of the Penal Code on child pornography. The intention is to ban sex dolls who represent children and who are produced for a sexual purpose. I fully agree, as the previous rapporteurs have also stated, that we all have the objective of combating child abuse in the best possible way. I therefore think it is a good thing that this resolution has been tabled so that we have the opportunity to debate it here in the Assembly and actually do something about what we all want, namely to combat child abuse. The proposal here is to ban child sex dolls as they are called. Of course, in the alternative we have also read the hearing answers from Sexological Clinic, Save the Child, Children's Conditions and the Children's Council and see a completely consistent line in relation to all of them saying that there is too little research in this area, and that with the knowledge we have today, there is nothing to suggest that, on the basis of the use of such child sex dolls, you go out and attack children. Some of them point out that it may rather be the other way around and that it actually prevents child abuse. Against this background, I think it is very positive that the governing parties too are opening up the way for us to have an expert hearing and to have a joint report so that we can really get to the bottom of this, because I fully agree with the rapporteur from the Left. Preben Bang Henriksen, in that we have exactly the same purpose here: it is about limiting and preventing abuse against children and that must be what is in everyone's interest.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124130746	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next speaker in the rapporteur's line is Mrs Zenia Stampe, Radical Left. You don't have to run, we have enough time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124130800	Thank you. That's a tough case. It has also been in our parliamentary group. I was a little after the Minister before, but now I would like to congratulate him on the unusually nuanced presentation and approach to a very difficult question. We have all agreed on that. I might as well be honest to say that I believe that in our group we were such a fifty-fifty, and I was among the banners, but that was before I had read the consultation answers from the three child organisations. And I think it is very difficult, after we have had the very clear indications that a ban is being advised against, to speak out for it at this stage. So I would like to join those who have been up here and speak for a report instead, where we are trying to get even closer to what the effect of such a ban will be. But it is clear that if we can bring more knowledge into the field, which points to the fact that this does not lead to the opposite, i.e. that a ban does not lead to more abuse, but that a ban leads to either equal abuse or fewer abuse, that is of course something we will support. So in those words, we cannot support the proposal now.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124130927	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Karsten Hønge, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124130934	Thank you to the Danish People's Party for putting this topic on the agenda. All aspects of paedophilia must be highlighted, all means must be used to prevent child abuse. Our challenge is to clarify whether these child sex dolls lead one way or the other. Will it prevent paedophiles from engaging in child abuse, or will it, on the contrary, lead to paedophilia in some circles being perceived as something almost acceptable? We do not know because there is very little knowledge in this area. The easiest and quickest would be to adopt a ban. It's not that hard to distance yourself from these dolls. On the other hand, we cannot pass laws against everything that we think is disgusting and perverse. We must be able to deal with our personal outrage. It's about whether this is important to children. Attacks against children must be punished harshly, but is it with a sex doll other than disgusting and perverse? It's unclear. On the other hand, it is quite clear in the consultation answers that there is virtually no knowledge of the consequences of these child sex dolls. SF would like to meet the Danish People's Party by recommending that a process be set in motion in which knowledge about the area is acquired, so that at a later stage we may be able to adopt a ban on a more enlightened basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124131129	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124131135	Thank you. I fully agree with the authors of the motion that what is a nasty thought is disgusting. It is our duty as politicians to be aware of such tendencies. Sexual abuse of children is among the worst crimes in society, and they will influence children for the rest of their lives. Until recently, I have also been in favour of a ban. My immediate reaction was that it should be banned. But then, when we got the hearing answers from among others... Save the child and the Children's Council, I wondered. Because they point out that it can have an opposite effect. That is why I think it is important that we stop and think and have a proper committee dealing with this, become wiser, but also set something in motion so that we can have more research in this area so that we can make a decision on a proper basis. I will not rule out a ban at a later stage, but right now I think we should stop and listen to the hearings for once and then find out what is in favour of a ban and what is against it. And at some point, we have to make a decision. But right now, we're not going to recommend a ban.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124131318	Thank you to the rapporteur. I shall now give the floor to the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Budgets. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124131331	Thank you. In December 2016, the media metroXpress reported that our customs officers regularly find child sex dolls specifically designed to look like children down to the baby age. The articles brought in metroXpress had a degree of detail in the description of these dolls, which should make any normal human being sick. I'll spare you the details of the article for the sake, indeed, of your well-being. I believe that we should ban these child sex dolls, and that is what our resolution today is about, because that is what we want. The current rules already prohibit child pornography, but aim only at films, photographs and visual reproductions, not at these dolls. To begin with, I would like to stress that people who may have these thoughts or ideas about committing sexual abuse against children must be stopped, and preferably before the abuses are committed. They should turn to a treatment offer as there is, in order to get help so that we can avoid abuse. We want to encourage these people to seek help instead of buying dolls. There are probably two basic points in the debate. One is that by not having a ban on these child sex puppets, you encourage sexual deviants who may have thoughts of committing child abuse to passively keep their deviation going, rather than getting the focus on getting them into treatment so we can stop this. We must encourage medical treatment, we must have a ban, we must not just stand by. The second argument in the debate is that dolls can help prevent those who would otherwise have committed an attack from doing so. I don't necessarily believe that. But these are the two basic points which the Folketing must weigh up today. The specialists in these questions are not in a position to give a clear answer. If you read the thorough and, I think, skillfully made letter from the Sexological Institute, the arguments may draw in both directions, but in any case I think that the Folketing should act. We propose today that we initiate a genuine ban. We also have time for the government to come up with a proposal where there are more precise boundaries and where sanctions are being looked at and how this can be combined. For child abuse is one of the most vicious crimes that can be committed. It should be punished much harder, but we also think that we should put a stop to the things that can help encourage people to do these things. Those people must be treated before the abuse occurs and, of course, if they commit an attack, they must be punished very severely. I hope that Parliament will look favourably on our proposals. I think, if we are to talk about today's debate in this way, that we are in agreement on the main objective. But I also have to say that it is moralism that, on the one hand, you stand on this platform and, on the other hand, in very, very sharp terms, you distance and push it away while you are not willing to legislate. So it's a free round. It is therefore too easy, I think, particularly in view of the fact that the rapporteurs who have used this particular argument say that they want the subject to be further clarified. We've been waiting for the government in this area for a year now. We've asked the Attorney General. We have brought to the attention of the Minister for Justice that this is an important issue which we think the Folketing should address. And then it's been a year, and we still haven't got to the bottom of it. We have still not caught up with what a majority of the members of the Folketing think is sufficient for a decision to be taken on an enlightened basis. I find that regrettable. I hope it will not be a year before we stand here again, because this is a matter we intend to pursue, because we think it is really important. Could it result in further abuse if this is adopted? This is one of the issues raised by the rapporteurs here during the parliamentary debate. It is not my impression that Norway has seen a pattern in that the way it is handled there has led to more abuse, perhaps quite the contrary. The Norwegian model has given the possibility that when the police or customs come across these dolls around you have been able to confiscate them, and you have also had a name that you could go for. You could get people in medical care for this, so you can avoid that at some point they commit an assault. You can stop these people from working with children, and that is something we traditionally care about very, very much. I think that the reaction of the government in particular today has been disappointing, but we are not, of course, opposed to it either, if you are interested in holding expert hearings, because then we can do so. We just think that a year is a very long time to wait for the government to get up and running, because that puts us in a bit of a situation where the next time we want something, it may be easier to just table a resolution than necessarily to go to the government and ask if this was not something that could be done widely in the Folketing. But that's the way it is. I thank the rapporteurs for their comments.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124131915	There is one more brief remark. This is Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124131921	I think that Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen says something that is really interesting in his rapporteur's speech: what is the result of having a ban or a lack of it? Are you just gonna let people ride out with these child sex dolls and say that you don't hope it ends with them moving on to the kids? Or are these people to be spotted early so that they can be treated? Now that the Minister has not studied the experience of Norway, I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether it would not make sense for us to instruct the Ministry in the committee procedure to draw up the experience of Norway, where, as far as I am aware, they have not seen an increase in the number of paedophiles, but have been able to do much earlier with treatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124132012	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124132017	I can give the honourable Member a full assurance of that. We really want to be a part of that. I think that what the questioner is raising here is very sensible. So full support for it. I find the Norwegian examples and stories interesting. I think it is irresponsible that the government has for a year now chosen to do nothing. You go on with a practice in which we really do not know what is happening, instead of saying that we must give our people, police and customs, the opportunity both to confiscate the dolls, but also to grab the people who have ordered such a doll, in order to avoid any abuse. I really think there is something that needs to be worked on here.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124132055	This caused one more to ask for a brief comment. Sir. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124132100	Both the rapporteur and Mrs Bramsen have now referred to the Norwegian experience. I hope that we will be able to clarify them, because I am certainly not familiar with the Norwegian experience. I have even purchased a note which questions whether section 311 of the Norwegian Penal Code is the equivalent of the pornography clause, which even includes child sex puppets. So there's something to investigate there. But I would like to ask the rapporteur: now the rapporteur refers to Norwegian experience in banning child sex dolls and that this should result in the number of crimes against children falling, but how can one even do such an investigation? And is there an investigation into it? Do you go out and ask people who are pedophiles, did you do this assault because you had a doll or because you didn't have a doll? What material is actually the basis for the rather bassant statements that we have heard here today?
ParlaMint-DK_20171124132203	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124132206	Thank you for the question. What I just note is that we have not heard that there should be a massive explosion in the number of cases in Norway. That's point one. Paragraph 2 is that the way you deal with it is that you can be looking up in your work. At least that's how we understand the model... so that when you encounter one of these dolls, you have the opportunity to take up the person in Denmark to a greater extent than we do in Denmark, i.e. in the person who may have ordered the doll. That seems to us to be wise, and if we can catch these people before they commit an attack, or if we can prevent them from working with children, that is a great step forward. The questioner then asks quite specifically how it can be assumed that this will lead to an increase or a fall. What the questioner is up to, I think, is really interesting, because it shows, it can be said, that it is very ambiguous. That is also what is apparent from the Sexological Clinic memo, which emphasizes precisely that there are arguments both for and against. There we simply choose to say that the starting point must be that there must be a ban and that the starting point should not be that this is allowed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124132312	The questioner with a second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124132316	I shall be very brief, because to a large extent we are broadly in agreement. I just wanted a greater scientific basis, because I asked what studies in Norway are referred to, and then the rapporteur replied: we have not heard that there has been a massive explosion since the ban. No, but perhaps we should also, when we tackle something as violent and serious as what we are doing, support ourselves up against anything other than: we have not heard that there should be any problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124132344	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124132347	In my opinion, this is the case to a large extent. In other words, the government has at least made efforts to obtain opinions from various organizations and also from the Sexological Institute, and of course we have read them too. But Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen and I can easily take a trip to Norway and look at how they do there.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124132404	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171124132424	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday 28 November 2017, at 2 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which is also shown on the Danish Parliament's website.
