ParlaMint-DK_20170303100011	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Kirsten Normann Andersen (SF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 78 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on requirements for the soundness and guarantee of private operators in municipal home care). Stine Brix (EL), Pernille Schnoor (ALT) and Kirsten Normann Andersen (SF): Motion for a resolution No. B 79 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution amending legislation on freedom of choice in the care of the elderly). Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT) and Christian Juhl (EL) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 80 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on impact assessments of legislative proposals on the UN Sustainable Development Goals and the Paris Agreement's climate objectives). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20170303100104	The debate is open. It's sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303100134	Thank you. It is a key task of our education policy to ensure a good framework for students and educational institutions to link theory and practice. It is the interplay between theory and practice that ensures the skilled students. Neither can stand alone. At the same time, we know that if you get relevant work experience during your studies, it is also easier to get jobs afterwards. That is why we must ensure from the political point of view that a good framework is created for students to be able to acquire practical knowledge in practice or in ordinary practice in parallel with theoretical knowledge. Therefore, it is also pleasing today to treat L 138, which makes it more attractive for students to participate in project-oriented courses or internships as part of education. The draft law we are discussing today responds to the challenges of receiving pay during the project-oriented processes. The challenge arose when it was established in 2015 that students must not be double-supported by salary and SU in the course of the programme. It was only necessary to take note of the decision, but at the same time it was also reasonable to consider whether it was sufficient and sufficiently attractive to enter into project-oriented processes, e.g.: full time in parallel with being supported at the SU, especially if the aim is to strengthen the link between practical learning and theoretical learning. In addition, the decision has meant that students wishing to enter into project-oriented courses abroad cannot do so if there is a minimum wage requirement in the relevant countries. In the specific case, it is Germany that is being considered where there has been a requirement for a minimum wage for students in connection with company stays since 2015. I think we can all recognize that it is sensible to ensure that Danish students can also take practice in Germany in the future, especially if we consider the proportion of Danish exports going to the large market to the south. Specifically, the bill means that Danish students who are part of a project-oriented programme in Germany will not be able to receive SU, but will be able to receive a salary during the course and thus meet the minimum wage requirement. At the same time, the proposal gives the student the opportunity to get an acknowledgment that is then the next point • in connection with a project-oriented programme or an internship. What has been crucial to social democracy in this context is that recognition ensures that the student's learning continues to be focused. Recognition must not result in the student becoming an employee. When you read the many constructive consultation responses, you can see that some of the comments relate to the concrete form of recognition. The comments relate to the limit of recognition of DKK 3,000. a month. The comments are relevant, but for the Social Democratic Party it is most important that the student's learning is first and last focused on recognition, despite. The assessment here is very clear that recognition in its present form ensures that the student is not at risk of entering into an employee relationship. Therefore, we can fully support the scheme, and we trust that the student and the public or private company can agree on a course in which both the student and the company can see themselves. The Minister notes in the consultation note in this respect that there is nothing to prevent the public or private company from expressing, in the dialogue with the student prior to a project, that it is generally open to the granting of recognition in the context of a special effort. I take note of that. The bill ensures that the conditions for entering into a project-oriented process are made more attractive. At the same time, it is maintained that the student's learning results are crucial in a project-oriented programme. That is wise, because, as I have mentioned, there is a need to strengthen the framework for linking practice and theory in education. Social democracy can therefore support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303100547	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. The next one is sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303100558	Thank you. This bill has two main issues. One is about taking an internship in Germany and is a practical handling of the fact that there is German law which says that you should be paid during the internship. This is a problem because, for most courses, there is an internship at the SU and there is a ban on receiving pay during internship. Therefore, this law allows work placements with pay in Germany or other countries which may have or have the same rules as Germany. In my view, this is a sensible and pragmatic solution to a practical problem. Moreover, this does not change anything about the existing rules in Denmark. This, on the other hand, makes the second part of the bill, which is about the ability of a company to give recognition to students who are in an internship in the company. The proposal provides for an acknowledgment of up to DKr 3 000. each month in connection with the internship. The proposal stresses that there must be no prior agreement on when and how much is given in acknowledgment, because it is so much like pay too much, and it must not be. This means that the employer must look at the trainees at the end of each month and then think: Well, Sofie, you have done very well, you I would like to give an acknowledgment of 3,000 DKK. At the end of next month: Sofie, you're still doing it well... you're getting another acknowledgment. It can also be seen from the consultation answers that it is being problematized that it cannot be agreed beforehand, because then you cannot count on the money. At the same time, it is an element that the proposal is actually aimed at a number of private companies which, and I acknowledge this, would like to give their trainees an acknowledgment. At the same time, there are a great many students who are internship in the public landscape. Can one imagine that students in an internship in a municipality should have an acknowledgment? In the municipalities it is considered in many places to be irresponsible dealings with tax dollars to give employees an acknowledgment, for example. in the form of a Christmas present for 200 DKK. I have to admit that I think it would be better to spend the money you have to give permanent employees recognition, such as the European Parliament's Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and the Working Environment. Christmas presents before you use them on gratitudes for students. So my premise is that this proposal will have no greater relevance in public systems, at least not in the municipal system. I do not know whether ministries or embassies have enough money to give recognition. In the Danish People's Party we also have the fundamental concern that when money comes between the intern and the employer, it becomes more difficult to maintain the educational perspective. Then it becomes harder to ensure that it should not be about delivering something to the company, but about learning something, that is to say that it is a real part of the studio. Here I am so lectured by all sides that it will not be a problem in these companies. This leads me to believe that, when the DF now supports the proposal, it is with the expectation that the educational establishments will adhere very much to the learning requirements of the internships and that the Minister will impress it on educational establishments. So with this assumption, the Danish People's Party can support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303100859	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. The next one is sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt-Schmidt, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303100906	Thank you, President. The proposal here is motivated by two main factors. The first is that the government's German strategy, with the support of the Danish Parliament's parties, must be implemented. Most people know that Germany is our largest export market and that it is therefore important that Danish students can improve their skills by both learning German business language and internship in German companies and thus becoming more skilled and obtaining skills and qualities that benefit the business community. The consequence of this being looked at here is that it will also be possible at home, as my two colleagues have explained, to receive recognition when you are in an educationally relevant development and training programme, what most people call internship. The motivation lies in the fact that the German Government, with the backing of the German Conservative Party and the German Social Democratic Party, agreed a fixed minimum wage on the labour market which would apply to all participants. One simply could not be allowed either as a German or as a Danish exchange student to be internship unless one received and receives some kind of salary. This is a problem in relation to the Danish SU legislation, which is why we now have the proposed amendments to L 138. I think it is good that we have a broad agreement. I expect and have been told that there are many parties who can back this up. That is also what we have been negotiating. With regard to the concerns that have been raised as to whether this will water down the concept of learning in the educational process and whether one might conflict with some employee relationships, I think it is important to note that the amount of recognition is fixed according to the EU rules on when something is pay for work and when it is a recognition. Then you can always discuss whether there is some psychological boundary that exists. But with the amounts we are talking about here, it is my impression that as an employer you can expect nothing more than that you have an intern who, of course, meets faithfully and loyally and that in his or her course he or she is also there to learn and, of course, to carry out the tasks assigned to him or her. I must also say on behalf of the Left that we are actually morally comfortable with the fact that we do not necessarily have to be free workers. We've had the discussion before. If you do a job, it is fine that you can get recognition for it and recognition for it. So that is to say, I and the Left think that we are solving two major problems: we manage to give students the opportunity to gain recognition; at the same time, we continue to provide development and training opportunities in relation to our largest trading and export market in Germany. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303101156	Thank you. And the next one, sir. Bruno Jerup, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303101204	As has already been said, the draft law consists of two parts. The first part is about being able to take an internship or in project-oriented courses, as it has also been called, as part of the training, also in countries that have a statutory minimum wage in the internship. One can say that this is the kind of lex Germany we are dealing with. We support that part, but would like the Minister to look at how the law stands for placements in countries where there may be a statutory minimum wage that is less than the SU that could be received. I do not know whether there are actually such countries, but that is certainly a problem that I would like to raise. The second part is about the possibility of giving students an acknowledgment. The comments say that it can be up to DKK 3,000. per month and must be given as a crown amount. We are more doubtful about that part. Even if it is blurred by the expression acknowledgment, it is similar to remuneration. It's got more problems. Can you imagine two students in the same company where one sheep and the other are not? Is it possible to ensure that there is no direct or indirect remuneration of work done in the company during the course of the training? Is recognition a sum of money for tasks that have been agreed in advance, or does this result from the fact that you become involved with the boss? And recognition can also be a part of this, several people have already mentioned moving focus from the intern's learning. So we are largely positive about the first part, but critical about the second part, which we would like to see better elucidated or framed, in relation to what we think is like the political aim.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303101404	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303101412	Bill No. L 138 solves, as has been said, some problems that have arisen in connection with the participation of Danish students in project-oriented courses in Germany, and some problems that have arisen because in many places there is a tradition of giving students participating in project-oriented courses what is in many places in daily speech called internship a less recognizability. In addition to what I have said, the background to the draft law has been examined by several rapporteurs, which is why I am not going to repeat what has been said. We in the Liberal Alliance welcome the fact that the people's regime is able to work together to solve practical problems, for which the vast majority agree that a solution should be found, and that is why, of course, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303101510	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303101517	Thank you. I'll be brief, too. As several rapporteurs have said, this draft law offers a pragmatic solution to a practical problem, and we very much welcome the fact that the Minister has chosen to table this bill. It has been a problem that these students have not been able to take an internship in Germany because of the new requirements for paid internship. So thank you to the Minister and the Ministry for putting it forward, we very much support it. In relation to the debate on recognition, I would like to say that it is true that one can make one's thinking, whether it will affect the commitment to where one chooses to take a project-oriented course or an internship, but I think we are standing there where we think that each student must also take responsibility for ensuring his or her own learning in any internship, whether one has the prospect of an acknowledgment or not. We are quite confident that the foundation of the internship will still be present, so we support the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303101630	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303101638	Thank you, President. In the Radical Left, we also support this bill, which has been examined brilliantly by previous rapporteurs. It is of course a very short matter that Danish students, who as part of their studies take a project-oriented course in this case, can receive an acknowledgment of up to DKK 3,000. in an otherwise unpaid course of internship or project. On the whole, we think this is a very good idea in the Radical Left. We would very much like many more Danish students to go to other countries, both to study, but also to carry out internship and project-oriented courses in companies or in other workplaces. It gives really good experience to get out and experience both study and work culture in other countries, it gives more perspectives, it gives new ideas, and in general it is just a really big gain for Denmark when the students return, because we need the perspectives and ideas, and that is why we fully and warmly support the Minister's finding a pragmatic and good solution to this specific problem, but also the direction in general, as this bill also shows.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303101805	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303101813	Thank you. I think it is a good day, because these are some good proposals that we are dealing with first of all today, and this is a good proposal in particular, because it contains two very good elements. The first element will mean that bachelor and graduate students can get paid during internship abroad, and this is important because after we discovered that obstacle, that is, that one could not receive recognition or pay during internship, this meant that the young people who had gone to Germany to be in a project-oriented course there could no longer be, because they simply could not. And it is just really important for our cooperation with Germany that students continue to have that opportunity. There are also several German players, companies that have been very active in this process to ensure that this could be done. It is because they also see a value in us exchanging students across national borders. I'm sure the students will get a lot out of that too. The second part, which is the one that makes me the most happy, is that students in project-oriented courses can have an appreciation for the future. In the SF, we tabled a motion for a resolution, B 175, which dealt with the fact that students in internship should be able to receive remuneration for their work. We did so because it was not possible for companies or for organisations which had young people in training to pay a salary if they wanted to. That is to say, if there was a company out there that thought: this student, this person, we really want to pay off, it wasn't actually possible with the way the law was screwed up. We thought we should change that, and I am really glad that the Ministry has now followed up on this and that there is actually going to be a change of law. The amendment of the law is then not complete as we would have liked to have seen it, nor is it complete as we had expected. It will be the case that you should not call it a salary, nor should you budget it and plan with it as a salary, but that it will be an opportunity for companies to give an acknowledgment of up to DKr 3 000. Now that I think it's a really good idea and a good step forward, it's because 3,000 kroner. Too many students, if they get it, can help to make their everyday life more coherent. It will be easier to pay the home, it will be easier to afford food, it will be easier to see the comrades when you now have the opportunity to have an acknowledgment of up to DKK 3,000. a month. It can mean a lot. It can also help motivate the student at the individual workplace, and then it can help motivate the student to actually take an internship. Because I fear and believe that there are some students who look out at the internships and think: It seems incalculable, and can I now make everyday life hang together when I have to be 37 hours internship, and then maybe I have to say goodbye to my student job, and how do I get the economy and everyday life together? Well, hopefully this will help a little. I think it's really important that we get more students to go into project-oriented courses in the future, because it's just really good to be out in real life. I know there's a lot of people talking about grades and everything you can learn at school. I also think that there is a really great value in everything you can learn out there in reality. Some questions have been asked, for example. of Enhedslisten, which I hope will support this • some very relevant questions about how to safeguard students' rights. I fully agree that we need to clarify this in the process, but in fact I think there are answers to some of the questions in the comments themselves. There are quite clear requirements for what it takes for a student to be included in such a project-oriented programme, where they receive recognition, for example. that the student concerned enters into such a framework agreement for the stay that the student concerned may not participate as a labour force during the stay, either in a public or a private enterprise, and that recognition may not be granted as a salary. So there are actually a lot of these safeguards in advance, and if there is a need to tighten it up further to ensure that all parties support this, then for me and the SF I will be very willing to look at it. But I am now of the impression, and that's also what I hear from the student organizations that have been involved in fighting for this and there are some who have been very active in this fight that this will generally benefit students. So SF backs up.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303102238	Thank you. There is one comment from Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303102242	After all, it's a day of joy when Mr. Jacob Mark and the undersigned can agree on a proposal in the Assembly Hall. I hope that the student organisations are happy. They tell me they are. I think it was a statement, but I think it is very important that we do not send out the signal that we are getting paid in connection with this bill. It is not in order to correct the rapporteur; it is simply because the draft law explicitly states that there is a difference between receiving pay and receiving recognition because pay in project-oriented processes is impossible in relation to the SU rules and also means a number of employers' obligations. So I just want to make sure that the rapporteur and I agree on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303102323	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303102324	We agree on that. What I said was at least what I was trying to say was that the starting point of the SF motion for a resolution when we tabled the last year was that students should be able to receive an internship salary. Then you've ended up on this, which isn't a salary, it's an acknowledgment. I think that is a very good step on the way. I would have liked it to have gone all the way, but this was what could be done within the framework that exists today, and I think it is important that it is the broad majority of the Folketing that is behind it. It is a recognition, and it must remain so, also because it guarantees some protection for students.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303102358	Sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303102359	Then I'll just have to sign for the good negotiation and the good cooperation. I would also like to congratulate the rapporteur on the task of bachelorism, which I understand needs to be written on in the next period. I did the same thing myself with full-time work. I hope that we will succeed in achieving this goal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303102412	Thank you. I'm gonna be writing that for the next week off the record. So it's gonna be exciting.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303102420	Well, that sounds interesting. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, Conservative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303102434	The bill here, L 138, has two parts. One part of the bill will allow universities to approve project-oriented courses in a company abroad where minimum wage is required during the course of the course, such as: in Germany. Students will then be paid and will therefore not be able to receive SU at the same time during the project-oriented programme. The second part of the bill allows students to receive an acknowledgment from a public or private company next to their SU where they are in unpaid placements or placements during their training. The bill here states that recognition must not be higher than up to DKK 3,000. a month, as this is not a working relationship, but a learning programme for the student. Conservatives can support the further work on the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303102529	Thank you. There are no brief comments, and then it is the Minister for Education and Research. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303102541	Thank you for the good debate. As the rules are today, universities cannot approve training courses abroad where there are statutory minimum wage requirements. In Germany, legal requirements have been introduced since 2015 for students to have a minimum wage for project-oriented courses in a company. The bill allows universities to approve project-oriented courses in a company abroad, such as: Germany, where there are statutory minimum wage requirements. Students will then be able to receive a salary and will therefore not be able to receive an SU. The government wants to support Danish university students being given the opportunity to stay in German companies as part of their education. This will strengthen the professional qualifications of students, increase their German language skills and their understanding of German culture. This will benefit Danish-German cooperation and trade. With the second part of the bill, the Government wishes to allow students to receive recognition from a public or private company where they have unpaid placements as part of their education. The proposal includes university students who undergo an unpaid project-oriented course in a company. It also includes students from other higher education institutions who undergo an unpaid internship or study stay in a company. Finally, non-higher-level maritime education students will be included. The proposal maintains that these company stays are learning programmes where the student's learning is in focus. There is no question of working conditions. To support this, the government will set a framework within which each student can receive an acknowledgment. An acknowledgment must not be higher than up to DKK 3,000. a month and a recognition may not be granted as a pre-determined income. In the consultation process, the wish has been expressed that the student and the company should be able to agree in advance on the recognition in question, preferably with a higher amount than the limit proposed by the government, and I would therefore like to say that it is important that students' stay in companies should not be regarded as an employment relationship. These are learning courses, which the proposed framework aims to safeguard. At the same time, it is important that we avoid legal uncertainty as to whether the student acquires employee status. I look forward to the further examination of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303102803	Thank you. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Education and Research Committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303102819	The debate is open and I give the floor to the Minister for Education and Research. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303102843	Today we are discussing B 29, which overall has two objectives. Firstly, the proposers want to ban all clauses which may restrict the public access to analyses and reports drawn up at universities in connection with official services. Secondly, B-29 requires the government to ensure the freedom of expression of researchers. The authors of the motion for a resolution justify it with a desire to protect the freedom of expression of researchers, and let me state straight away that I agree with that wish. Research is, in fact, an important contribution to the democratic debate and the political process. It is important to me as Minister for Education and Research and I have said it since I left the country that we must strengthen respect for wisdom, knowledge and intellect. Research-based authority service often constitutes an important scientific and professional support of policy development, and the government supports that the Folketing always gets accurate information. Researchers and others who have provided data or other input to decisions in the Folketing must therefore not be prevented from drawing attention to if their input is not presented in a true way. When you read B 29, you can almost get the impression that the freedom of expression of researchers today does not enjoy adequate protection. That is not our view, however. In Denmark, we have a solid protection of freedom of expression, and this also applies to the freedom of expression of researchers. Freedom of expression is protected by Paragraph 77 of the Constitution, which states that everyone is entitled to publish his thoughts in writing and in speech, but under the responsibility of the courts. In addition, freedom of expression is, for example, freedom of expression. protected by Article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights and, at the same time, the University Act directly states that researchers are obliged to participate in the public debate. The Ministry of Education and Research, in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Science, has laid down guidelines for government service agreements. It follows that the university has the right and the duty to publish all the research results, so that the guidelines are clear: the starting point is openness and publication. However, it is now part of history that public researchers, like other public servants, are subject to the rules of the administrative code on professional secrecy. And this also applies when researchers provide research-based administrative services as part of their public employment at the university. It can, for example, be done. be information to be used in negotiations in the EU where Denmark is not required to publicly disclose its negotiating position. Another example could be in the context of negotiations for the modification of an aid scheme, in which publication on completely unintentionally we can influence the debate. But the starting point is always that public-sector researchers have freedom of expression. The clear starting point is that all deliveries forming part of the basis of the political decision are made public once they have been delivered. Therefore, there is no need to lay down additional restrictions and duties as proposed in B 29. Having said that, it must be acknowledged that not all contracts concluded historically between universities and ministries fully meet those requirements. This applies both to the confidentiality clauses and to the limitation of the right of publication. This needs to be corrected, and it is a work that has been undertaken. This is why today it is a good opportunity to mention that ministries are constantly reviewing their standard contracts. This is what is needed, even in the light of specific cases that arise in the process. There has also been a desire from both ministries and universities to clarify and deepen the general guidelines for research-based government services. In this work will include: In addition, the OECD 2015 report on roles and responsibilities in cooperation between authorities and research institutions. Should it happen that a researcher experiences an improper restriction of his freedom of expression, the researcher has several options for action. This also applies if researchers find that their data or other inputs are not presented fairly to the Folketing. First of all, researchers must go to their management, which can discuss the issue with the Ministry of Trade. In addition, researchers also have the opportunity to go to their professional organisation, which can take the issue with the researcher's management or with the relevant ministry. Finally, the researcher always has the opportunity to file a complaint with the Danish Parliament Ombudsman. Finally, let me stress once again that researchers make an important contribution to the democratic debate and the political process, and it is therefore essential for the government that cooperation between authorities and universities is based on principles of openness, arm's length and the freedom of method for universities. We have to protect that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303103346	Thank you, Minister. There is a brief comment from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303103351	Thank you. And thank you for receiving this proposal from the Minister. I hear we agree on really long stretches. After all, it is no secret that this proposal is based on the agricultural package case, where researchers certainly did not feel that their research was presented to the Folketing in a fair way and that they were subject to muzzle so that they were not allowed to tell about their results until a political agreement had been concluded and the law passed. I know that changes have already taken place, but what is of great concern to researchers is that the possibility of putting a muzzle on now, rather than being defined by the Ministry, has moved to universities. Is this something that we can look at together so that together we ensure that this muzzle is completely removed from the scientists?
ParlaMint-DK_20170303103446	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303103448	I think that, as I said, there are areas where there will be confidentiality, and I have explained those areas in my speech. And if that is what the rapporteur is referring to, then I do not think we can find common ground. But I have nothing against an ongoing discussion in this area. I'm not bound by anything in this context. But I think I have explained the government's basic position on what I have said.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303103512	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303103514	I could not hear that they were the things that the Minister mentioned we are talking about. This is basically about political decision-making in the Folketing. So I have to say that it sounds as if, in the course of the committee procedure here, we can hopefully meet each other in relation to fenced in exactly what we are talking about. This is about ensuring that the Danish Parliament gets the information it needs to be able to understand legislation and political agreements. That's what's at the heart of this. It sounds to me as if we can actually meet about it, and I am extremely pleased about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303103546	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303103547	If we can meet to explain what the current set of rules really is and thus make it clear to researchers and others, including the institutions, then that would be a pleasure. I wouldn't have any trouble with that. But I also think I have indicated that it is not because the government is planning to change something beyond what I have mentioned, that is to say the current state of law. But I also think that real information about what things are can be very, very helpful. Because it may be true that there are some who see the current state of law differently.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303103626	Thank you, Minister. Then it is Mrs Mette Reissmann, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303103637	With the motion for a resolution, the proposers will require the government not to lay down clauses for public access to university services and to ensure the freedom of expression of researchers in this respect. The discussion is important. In a free and democratic society, it is central that researchers can speak out in the public debate and that they have the freedom to draw conclusions that are purely factual and without the influence of interests other than those of science. It seems to me that, in the light of the motion for a resolution, there are important points on this basis. One should not be blind to the fact that the position and role of science and researchers today is much challenged, even more challenged today than before. It has become more okay to challenge the conclusions that science draws on an otherwise objective basis and after many years of research, and in a world where alternative facts are legitimate to present, it also means that the development is worth taking seriously and that it is also worth following very closely. In the last two years at home there have been some cases that are an example of this development. I am thinking here of the matter of the agricultural package, to which the authors of the motion for a resolution refer in their comments. Another example is the case of CBS' report on framework conditions for agriculture, which was created on the basis of input from Sustainable Agriculture. The role and importance of research have also been discussed here. Both cases are serious in their own way, but they share the view that they are examples that the position of research is not as untouchable as it was in the past. And we must take that seriously. The other side of the discussion about the ability of research to express itself is that, in general terms, there are quite good conditions today. Fortunately, many scientists are interfering in the social debate. The Minister also stressed that there is even a duty which could perhaps be more clearly informed about, as a researcher, to interfere in important democratic processes and current issues. But when it comes to meddling, you don't always iron everyone with your hair, and that's what kind of sparks. That's the way it's supposed to be. This is what makes it possible to give a higher degree of validity to researchers in our educational institutions. It's a force that I think we should protect. However, I also believe that researchers in Denmark also have very good conditions when it comes to the freedom of research and to everything that is included in it. There is also reason to take note of this and also to be satisfied with it. In relation to the specific motion for a resolution tabled, there is no doubt that the purpose is both commendable and important. However, I do not think it is appropriate to adopt instructions on the basis of individual cases to which it is addressed here. In the Social Democratic Party, we support the principles of arm's length, openness, the freedom of method of universities and all that is involved. At the same time, however, we basically believe that it is important to maintain that making room for internal work can make sense in a given political process. And there must be room to discuss issues within a government, for example. the results of the research are presented for open public discussion and debate. The Minister mentioned as an example that Denmark is taking part in negotiations within the EU and needs, if you will say so, an internal space to discuss research results and that it is important for it not to influence the negotiating position. Social democracy is also welcome, as the Minister has indicated that the government is doing, in general, in a discussion about the ability of researchers to speak out. I do not need to explain the law in force. The Minister has already mentioned this. I agree with the interpretation of the law in force by the Minister. But this question is always worthwhile to deal with, and I fully agree with the proposers that every time we see these things, the discussion must be taken in the meantime, and indeed in the meantime, in order to exercise due care and try to deal proactively with it. I also believe that the debate could actually have gone before the agricultural package even saw the light of day. However, in relation to the specific proposal, it must be borne in mind that there must be reasonable reasons to be able to discuss matters internally before they are presented for public debate. So, on the basis of what I have said now, the Social Democrats cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303104115	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303104118	I think that is a pity, because I really think that there were a great many of the points that the rapporteur has put forward, on which we are in agreement. After all, this is not just about striking down on a single case; it is about taking up a principle about how contracts with researchers are designed. It is here that when a political package is to be negotiated, where there is a comprehensive set of figures, those who sit and negotiate for the Folketing must be given the opportunity to get the same level of knowledge as the government about the basis for the negotiations. It's about power, it's about balance of power, it's about strengthening the Folketing towards the government. That is the essence of this proposal. So I hope that during the committee procedure, the Social Democrats, together with us, will help to be more specific about what this is all about, and hopefully will be able to be with us about a report so that we can ensure the freedom of expression of researchers and, basically, the strength of the Danish Parliament vis-à-vis the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303104215	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303104216	So, with the fear that it will sound a bit like a repeat of what the Minister said, which is rarely happening, but this is the case here, I shall refer to the applicable law, which in so far as already guarantees the freedom of expression of researchers. At the same time, there is a very delicate balance that we have discussed in other contexts, most recently in connection with the adoption of the Public Service Act. And I would just like to repeat from my own speech that the motion for a resolution here should not be a stepping-stone for us to embark on a debate on the law on public access, because that debate must be held in another forum. On the other hand, I can promise the authors that I will be happy to take part in the debate in committee, also so that we can get the various issues out of the way. I believe that Parliament must, of course, have the precise information in terms of being able to take decisions. However, I also believe that the balance of the rules in force in relation to both protecting the freedom of expression of researchers and at the same time imposing on them the obligation of professional secrecy arising from the applicable law should not be upset in the context of the examination of this motion for a resolution in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303104325	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303104327	One thing is to look at applicable law, that is very relevant, but one also has to take a look at practice: what is actually going on? And when such a course as that of the agricultural package can take place, then something is wrong. Then there's something basically wrong. When the Folketing cannot access the same figures as the government, when the researchers behind the figures, who can see that their figures are being distorted, have been muzzled so that they cannot even be allowed to talk about it, then there is something wrong. Things have been changed, and I also recognised that in my question to the Minister, but there may still be a problem. And what I think we should do together is still gone to shed light on the existing problem and clear it up so that a matter such as that of the agricultural package can never be repeated.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303104409	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303104410	Well, I think I'd be a little careful to say that a case should never again be able to repeat itself. History unfortunately shows that this is happening, even in the areas that we are discussing here and now. Again: Social democracy will not be involved in issuing instructions on the basis of individual cases. We fully recognise what happened in the context of the agricultural package, and I certainly believe that the rapporteur in this area, my colleague Mr Gundelach, too. Simon Kollerup, has been very critical of that. A clean-up work is already under way, to put it bluntly, in the ministries concerned, and I acknowledge and acknowledge that. I would very much like to take part in the work of the committee when we discuss how we can be proactive at all, so that we can prevent this happening again, preventively and proactively, so that the risk is reduced. But to have to make guarantees that it will never happen again, I will not be a part of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303104502	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303104520	With this proposal, the Enhedslisten wants to give researchers full and complete freedom to express themselves. I agree with that, but is it not also a freedom that has already been established today? Following the debate on the ministerial reports commissioned for this and that and the underlying contracts with the universities, I see a picture of a world that may have slipped a little sidetrack with regard to the secrecy clauses, but also a picture of contracts that did not quite follow the laws and rules that apply in this area. There is also a picture of working to adjust and regulate contracts and agreements so that, of course, they comply with laws and regulations. It must be quite clear that, of course, the starting point must be that researchers should be free to express themselves on their research, and that must of course apply regardless of how research is financed. When results are then delivered, such as: should be used in political debates at home or, for example, in political debates at home. in the EU and the publication of results could affect markets, for example. in the case of charging systems, or it may affect the negotiating position vis-à-vis the European Union, I understand a need for confidentiality about the results. Perhaps we should consider whether universities are the right place to buy reports of this kind. If you need to buy analyses of that nature and with that degree of secrecy, it may be best placed with private consultants. I am aware that there is a great deal of economy in this, and therefore universities will probably be very reluctant to say no to a task, even if there are conditions behind it. Perhaps here they should examine their own behavior. In any case, it is essential, regardless of whether the contracts are improved, to consider at universities how they distinguish research and the associated obligation to express the results to the surrounding world, and then to provide consultancy services and to order reports with a corresponding respect for the orderer's requests for confidentiality. This applies both here in the field of administrative services and in cooperation with companies, where it is important to be clear about what function you perform. So, yes, there are things that need to be cleared up, reflections that must be done not least at universities, but the Danish People's Party cannot support the motion for a resolution tabled.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303104727	Thank you. Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303104730	I sense that we agree that something needs to be done here. So what is it in the specific resolution that the Danish People's Party cannot support?
ParlaMint-DK_20170303104741	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303104742	What is fundamental is that we actually believe that the regulatory framework is good enough. And we are in the process of starting to ensure that the agreements and contracts that are being made, etc., also comply with applicable legislation. As far as this is concerned, we see no reason to change anything. This does not mean that we cannot take the discussion on whether to provide better information and whether to do something to ensure that laws and rules are properly implemented. Of course, we can always discuss this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303104816	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303104817	So the Danish People's Party is prepared in committee to look at the current rules and have a dialogue on whether it is good enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303104826	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303104828	I have no idea that the rules in force are not good enough. Actually, I think they are. But what you can, of course, discuss is the changes you are making now. Of course, they could be followed up and said: Is that so far enough? Of course, you can also discuss how to guide universities and others involved in this, and ministries for that matter, so as to ensure that rules and laws are respected. We have no problem discussing that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303104858	Then it's mr. Bruno Jerup, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303104901	Thank you. The current rules are good enough, says the rapporteur. I would like to ask a question as to how the rapporteur feels about the specific, let us say, treatment of the agricultural package. Is it the rapporteur's view that the Folketing was correct, sufficiently informed about the issues involved in the agricultural package, in the light of that discussion of the freedom of expression of researchers and the clauses?
ParlaMint-DK_20170303104936	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303104938	I do not have enough detailed knowledge for this process to be able to say what is up and down in it. I note that, in the light of the progress made, some adjustments are being made to contracts in relation to the way in which they are handled. So some have probably seen an opportunity to make some adjustments, and I am glad that you are doing so.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303104957	Sir. Bruno Jerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303104959	Yes, the rapporteur is pleased that some adjustments are being made. However, is it not possible to take a more specific view of why adjustments should be made if the existing rules are good enough, as the rapporteur says?
ParlaMint-DK_20170303105017	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303105018	I do not want to deal with the specific situation, because I do not know it well enough. However, if there are some areas where people have not complied with the rules in force, it does not mean that the rules in force are not good enough. So it does mean that you have to look at the existing rules and look at how they have been applied. And I have the impression that you do, and I think that is satisfactory.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303105039	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303105048	Thank you. When you immediately read the title of the proposal and if we assume that you do not know anything about the Danish people's government, you could imagine that you were in a place with a very weak democracy, a place where there was a strong leader who limited public statements, put the freedom of researchers under lock and beat and tied them to his mouth and hand. I do not think that is quite the case, and of course I do not know that either. My colleague has very effectively explained what the proposal contains, so I will go straight to the more political debate. It is my view and that of the Left that scientists today have a broad degree of freedom of expression. The European Convention on Human Rights, the Constitution and... I will allow the rapporteur to start all over again. ) That's great. I'm not gonna make a big deal out of it. It is the view of the Left that scientists today have excellent freedom of expression. It is guaranteed both by the European Convention on Human Rights, the Constitution and the University Act. Of course, we recognise that there may sometimes be problematic situations. We are interested in meeting the proposers in the context of a good dialogue and clarification of doubts about points. At first sight, we are not interested in fundamentally amending the law and therefore have the same attitude as the rapporteurs from both the Social Democrats and the Danish People's Party have expressed. It is important that the researchers we have at home feel and experience that their freedom of expression is not threatened. At the same time, however, there may be situations in which research must be published in coordination with the authorities which have commissioned it if research can help to push a market, help to influence a sale or otherwise have a vital impact on major public interests. And I think the Enhedslisten actually acknowledges that. I actually know that Enhedslisten acknowledges that. I can see that there are noddings, and I also think I have heard both the rapporteur and others say so in the past. And that's in the field of tension we're going to try to see if the rules live up to the purpose. I recognise that there may be problematic cases, but I do not believe that those cases are such that it means that researchers do not have freedom of expression. I simply do not think that is the case. I also think it is important to take note of the opportunities available to researchers who feel limited in their freedom of publication and freedom of expression. There are complaints bodies to which you can turn, and there are other ways to go. I would very much like to hear of concrete examples that have not yet been brought to the market if that were the case. Against this background, I must conclude that the Left cannot support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303105341	Then it's Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303105344	But despite that, I would like to sign for one, I hear, in fact very constructive and positive reception of what is the intention of the proposal. And yes, we live in a well-functioning, open democracy, and we must also safeguard that. And that is where we believe that what happened to the agricultural package gives rise to the alarms to sound. A number of things have happened afterwards. Those contracts have been cleaned up. It was found that they were managed in breach of existing legislation. So what we want to do with this motion for a resolution in committee is simply to take it in and look at whether there is still a problem or whether it is actually resolved. If there is still a problem, we can hopefully bring together the Folketing that it can be resolved so that it can be clarified whether this muzzle, which scientists still believe is there, can be removed or whether it is there for a reason. Or can we make it more concrete, exactly where it should be?
ParlaMint-DK_20170303105438	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303105440	I think it is in everyone's interest, whether you are bourgeois or left-wing, to ensure that problems that exist and the perception that researchers may have of the state and administration of the law come to light. I would like to sign for the comment. In other words, we are of course interested in solving the problem and examining whether there are problems. My impression is that, without being an expert in this area, I will hurry to state that it looks reasonable. I shall not be able to deny that there are some problem areas. Within that framework, I would like to take part in looking at it, but unfortunately I cannot meet the Enhedslisten in relation to the proposed amendment to the law that one wants to impose on the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303105527	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303105528	But I sense a sympathy for a process in which we are looking at this in committee to become wiser all of us. Because none of us are experts. We have observed a problematic course. Scientists say there are still problems. I think we should look at that in such a way that we really secure the Folketing before the government. It should be in everyone's interest.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303105550	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303105550-2	Of course it is. And may I say here on a both constructive and peaceful Friday, when it is still morning, that the matter is an implicit factor in my standing here today. And that's why I'm not so much an expert on it, not sitting in the Folketing when the case went on, but only afterwards came into the Things. But it should not set an example. So, the fundamental views and considerations that Enhedslisten has made, no one can disagree with, namely that our researchers must have the necessary freedom of expression within the framework. My limit thus goes where the interests of society can be affected by the publication of documents and analyses that can push significant economic and socio-economic conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303105631	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. And then I recommend everyone, including myself, to remember to turn off the phone in the Assembly Hall. Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303105645	Thank you. I think I've definitely turned off my cell phone, and I'm going so far. The universities are, after all, some of the oldest institutions in a large number of European societies. There are many places where universities can lead their history back to the Middle Ages, and looking at things in that light, the University of Copenhagen, founded in 1479, is only middle-aged. What is at the heart of a university is that it is a social institution which aims to house and celebrate and guard over the free, critical and rational thought. Repression does not belong in a university under any form. The only thing that can and should kill off a research result is that the research community can demonstrate that the result is wrong and therefore contrary to what the research community considers to be correct. It was so that the idea of billions, that is, that disease is caused by unclean air, came from days. This is how the idea that there was a medium for waves called the ether came from days. The research community was able to demonstrate that the assumptions were wrong. Therefore, researchers must of course be allowed to say whatever they want when they research and when they criticise other researchers' research results. It's quite clear. Then there is another question which is much more complicated, and that is: what are the conditions for researchers involved in consultancy? Because it is the case that the rules for consultants are simply different from those for researchers. Advisers should work as critically and rationally as researchers when they illuminate a case, but consultants also work for a client whose interests they care for. Therefore, it is normal for consultants to sign a declaration of professional secrecy while at the same time concluding an agreement to resolve a contract for a particular client. What is termed research-based authority service is, in fact, a piece of consultancy work carried out by staff at a university and, as a rule, it can also be solved by major serious consultancy companies if it is put in open tenders. If you want your full freedom of expression, you should refrain from working as a consultant, and if you want to work as a consultant, you have to accept that you have basically renounced the right to harm your client's interests. I would therefore like to say that I can well imagine that politically there is a lack of definition and clarification of the rules applicable to researchers working as consultants. It is difficult to imagine that it has found its final form and is completely flawless, as it is just now. It is a piece of work that we would very much like to take part in from the Liberal Alliance, but the form in which the resolution is drafted makes it impossible for us to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303110015	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303110019	Thank you for your gratitude for what is basically the intention of the proposal. I just need to understand what it is in the proposal that the Liberal Alliance cannot support. Our intention is, of course, that when a government uses the material that a university or a group of researchers who provide authority to a ministry have provided, which they do, of course, in a negotiation and there will be publicity about the debate and researchers can see that what they have delivered has been distorted in a political context in order to promote a particular political objective and does not reflect the results they have delivered, then they should be able to talk about it. Then they need to be able to talk to members of parliament, to the public, and to shed some light on this process. That is what we want to clean up. That is the freedom of expression we want to ensure. Can we meet up on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20170303110115	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303110116	What is the problem with the proposal, as it has been put forward, is that it does not make a sufficient distinction between researchers and consultants. And then there are a number of problems related to how the Folketing gets the insight that the Folketing should have when political negotiations take place. And there, of course, we agree that the Folketing must have full information. But I just think that we have to think through how we do it, because we agree that Parliament should have this rightful information. At the same time, I will insist that consultancy work is carried out on some conditions other than actual research.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303110202	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303110205	Now we're talking about authority. I assume that is what the rapporteur calls consultancy work. But if there is now a muzzle on scientists today and they can see, after their research results have been published, that these have been abused in a political context, will the rapporteur and the Liberal Alliance help to remove that muzzle so that we ensure that researchers can speak publicly about their research results, even if they have been used politically?
ParlaMint-DK_20170303110233	Here you go, sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303110238	Research-based authority service is a fine word for consultancy work, and if you are a consultant, you work on consultant-like terms. If there is a danger that the Folketing lacks vital information, then we must jointly find some arrangement to ensure that the vital information comes to the knowledge of the Folketing. We are in complete agreement on this. But if you do not want to work as a consultant, I think basically that you should not.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303110308	Then it's mr. Bruno Jerup, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303110313	I would like the rapporteur to have just tried to address the question raised by the rapporteur himself. What the ministries do is that they hire some consultants, let us just use the word, and in this context the rapporteur then says that there are some other rules, that is to say that the consultant has to do what the orderer has to do. This means that in principle the Ministry can order anything, and then the consultant will have to keep a close eye on it, even if the Ministry chooses to use it in a completely different way or change it or something. I would like to hear something: if the rapporteur really thinks that it is fair that one can have the fact that one can have a ministry ordering something that they want, and if they do not get what they want, they will just change it, and that is quite all right, because it is a consultative task, and so the Folketing should not be given the opportunity to know. Does the rapporteur really think that is okay?
ParlaMint-DK_20170303110407	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303110409	I am glad to have this question because it underlines to me that I have not made myself clear enough when I answered Mrs Reumert Gjerding's question. What I was trying to say, but with which I did not succeed, was that it is absolutely fundamental that the Folketing has the information that the Folketing needs to be able to make informed decisions. What I just think is necessary is perhaps to ensure some procedures other than the procedures we have today so that the Folketing can obtain this information.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303110447	Sir. Bruno Jerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303110449	I have to deal with it one more time in order to ask something: the rapporteur is certainly right in saying that it is the case that when some companies or organisations in other parts of the world order something, the ordering work they ask for and receive is what they are paying for, and that is what it is, but is it fair that when we talk about ministries, when we talk about the Folketing, in such contexts, we have the same premise, namely that the Ministry can order a report or ask for a task, put a muzzle on producers, the consultant, call it what it is, and then tell the Folketing something else?
ParlaMint-DK_20170303110533	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303110536	I myself have been a consultant in, I think it is 15 years of my work career or something, and I have in fact sometimes called for a mechanism such as the one described, namely that you have a client that you seem to interpret violently the results you have given to the client. I have no objection to discussing the fact that we are making some sort of arrangement so that we can raise objections, but I just do not really see that the proposal here addresses the problem. Some process or procedure whereby you can raise a red flag if you, as a consultant, think you are being interpreted violently, I have nothing against.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303110615	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303110624	Thank you. This debate is spreading and is becoming more and more interesting. I shall start by saying that the alternative would like to support the resolution. We will certainly support the intentions, because there are some things that I have to say I agree with some of the other rapporteurs in the resolution as it stands. The part where it is written that the government must ensure the freedom of expression of researchers, so that they can speak freely, of course we support 100%. As far as the non-fixing of restrictive clauses is concerned, we have to find out to what extent it is necessary to do so today. How much does the legislation allow? How much of what we have seen is illegal practice to which we must, of course, respond? However, we would like to support the intention of the motion for a resolution. Is it the individual scientist's personal ethics that has to decide whether you say yes or no to an assignment from a ministry? Or is it we as a state, as the authority for research, to ensure that that decision does not have to be taken by the individual researcher, because we have ensured that there is freedom of expression? No matter what, as a scientist, you should not be able to get into a situation where you have to deal with some statements. From our position and perspective, that is the last thing we need to ensure. We must, of course, ensure, regardless of whether you are a university researcher who is researching for research advice or whether you are a consultant in Rambøll, it must be the case that the research you carry out must be freely accessible to the public. I fully agree, and I have also researched myself, I have actually bought research from both Rambøll and KORA in my previous work. It is clear that there are some elements that are being taken into account. It is typically the case that you agree on when you go out with something, because all parties have an interest in getting something out at the same time. As the Minister said, it is clear that there will be some elements on the security of the empire, negotiating positions, etc., which must be taken into account overall. Having said that, however, I think we should go as far as we possibly can to ensure the freedom of expression of researchers and to ensure the transparency of research. It's also an element of this. I was actually sitting here and I had an idea that we might be able to continue working on in committee afterwards. We would very much like to continue working on how to solve this problem. It is easy to imagine with all the research that is being carried out for public funds, for example. about everything the ministries order from, let's just say, KORA or SFI, that when the day comes when you present this research, you publish the raw data at the same time. They are, of course, anonymized and so on, so no one can find out who has been there, etc. But you have an obligation to publish the raw data so that everyone else can go in and use the raw data because they have been ordered for public authorities' funds, that is, the government's and parliament's money. Then, in principle, we can say that we are making them available so that others can go in and do their own analyses, or what I know from them. It is certainly an opportunity that we can discuss further, because I think it is absolutely crucial that we ensure not only the individual freedom of expression of researchers, but also the transparency and applicability of research for the whole of Denmark and not only for the public institution that pays for it when it is primarily about state-funded research. Thank you to the Enhedslisten for presenting this motion for a resolution. I think this is a very important issue. Then we can discuss what we've seen. I remember a few years ago that Jesper Tynell was doing a really, really interesting show on P1, which was just about SFI. I even think it was the previous government that had commissioned some work from the SFI, where it also turned out that a lot of clauses were imposed on what to say and not to say. So this is not a new issue. What we have to find out is how much of this is because you break the law and how much of it is because it is actually possible within the law. I do not have an overview of that, but we could look at it in committee. Thanks to Enhedslisten. We would very much like to continue working on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303111051	There's a comment from the Enhedslisten. Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303111055	I'd just like to sign for the positive reception. It opens up new perspectives for the rapporteur's idea, which I think could be very interesting to look at. What this is about is ensuring openness, ensuring transparency, ensuring that as many people as possible are allowed to look at the material underlying the decisions we take in here, the legislation we adopt, etc. After all, it is one of the pillars of our democracy. I look forward to working further on the proposal in committee to highlight the aspect mentioned by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303111127	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303111129	Thank you. I can't wait for that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303111132	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303111147	Thank you. In the Radical Left, we are really concerned about this issue of the freedom of expression of researchers, of course fundamental about the freedom of research. It is absolutely essential to ensure that Danish researchers can both carry out their research without any political interference whatsoever, but of course also that they have their full freedom of expression like everyone else. If you look out into the world, you can be really, really deeply concerned at the moment: political approval of research results before they are published. That should be totally unacceptable in democracies. I am certainly of the opinion that there is broad agreement on this, fortunately. We want independent universities in Denmark, independent research institutions. The institutions which have to provide the knowledge and research which are the basis for at least informed decisions must never be able to be accused of being politically controlled. Because it is actually up to universities to correct us as politicians. With their researchers, they ensure that politicians, companies, opinion-makers, decision-makers and all sorts of others cannot claim that something is true because it is politically or otherwise opportune. Our researchers, our universities, must be the guarantor that there is knowledge that can speak against when it is needed, even when we think it is really annoying. It must be free and it must be completely independent. There are several who have said that we just have to acknowledge that in Denmark too we have had our problems. It is not someone who can compare with those we see in the world now, fortunately, but we do. The process of the agricultural package showed that there are researchers who have felt pressured. So we in the Radical Left would very much like to make it clear that this is not acceptable and that we in Denmark are very and hopefully widely concerned about that is what I hear ■ to ensure that research can be carried out completely and completely freely. With regard to the restrictive clauses, we have noted that, fortunately, some of the universities' own procedures have changed following the agricultural package case. That's good. But we also want to help to see if an even clearer signal can be sent from the Folketing. As some other rapporteurs have mentioned, there are elements that are being formulated now that we may well be worried about who the framework is if we adopt the proposal as it stands. This is true, for example. the question of research with a patent process involved, or in the case of market sensitive information. But it is my impression from the Enhedslisten's question that it is absolutely not the intention of the proposal. So I am convinced that we can clarify it and make it clear in a committee process. I support the fact that we are carrying out such a process in committee, for example. by adopting a report, hopefully by a broad majority, on the basis of the very broad support I sense here. There is a debate going on and a lot of time is spent on the debate outside our borders. In view of this, I think it is very important that we clarify and send a very clear signal from the Danish Parliament that in Denmark research is free and independent. I think we could benefit from that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303111607	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. It's first Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303111610	I just want to confirm that it has not been our intention to hit anything about patents. So thank you for the positive words, and I will look forward to the hope that we will land something by a broad majority.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303111624	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303111626	You're welcome. I hope we can, too. In fact, I think it is timely and appropriate for the Enhedslisten to take up this debate. Nor do I see that it is just to have a polemical debate. I think it is important that we show that this area is extremely important to us as Danish politicians and that we will both look at the cards and ask the critical questions, because that is only how we get more qualified decisions. I think we can agree on that is important.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303111656	Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303111702	I have asked for the floor because the OECD has drawn up a draft guidelines for the interaction between researchers and politicians. It's actually really good, and we might be able to get the group of rapporteurs who are here to set up a study group where we sat down and read this document. But what is being said here is that there is a line where you have to watch out for traffic both ways, because we politicians should not go into the field of researchers, but researchers should not politicize either. Could I have the rapporteur's comments on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20170303111733	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303111735	Why not include that paper in the committee work and see if we can't be inspired, for example. a report in committee? Because it's true that it's a nice line. I think that the most important thing to stress is that policy makers cannot interfere in the conduct of research. Then it is true that one can ask when researchers will become political. There I think we must be a little less sensitive and have a little more sense of fingertips, because that is something else, after all, because it is us politicians who make the political decisions. But it is true that there is always a balance here. We will hardly be able to regulate it, fortunately, because it is about fundamental freedom of expression, but we can, of course, send directional signals and very much like on the basis of broad decisions, which are precisely informed OECD reports.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303111837	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303111847	Thank you. And thank you for the proposal, I think it is a very important proposal. It was not such an area that I knew a great deal about before I read the motion for a resolution, but of course more attention was paid to it precisely in the light of the whole process of the agricultural package. I would say that when I read the proposal, I thought: these are obvious facts. It should be a matter of course that researchers have freedom of expression, that research is free and that researchers can present their results in a way that is fair, just as I also think it should be a matter of course that both the public and the Folketing can access the information and results obtained in the research. Of course, it does not have to be that only the executive can do so. So when I read the proposal in the first place, I thought: I think that is a good idea. And that is how I actually continue to feel. Now I have listened a little bit to the debate, both to the Minister's speech and to the various speeches by the rapporteur, and I am thinking as I am listening to the fact that there is actually a broad consensus that it should also be the case that this is a matter of course. The Minister mentions that there may be some unintended consequences in this proposal, and I think that should be taken into consideration in a committee procedure and ensure that when we have a report or whatever we end up with, it is taken into account. So the Enhedslisten's own rapporteur also mentions the fact that the problem may have been removed from the fact that it is not necessarily the Ministry, but universities that can give researchers some sort of muzzle, and I think that we should look into that further. But as a starting point, we are very supportive of this proposal, because we think it is a matter of course that research should be free and that researchers should have freedom of expression. So we would very much like to continue working on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303112039	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303112053	Thank you. I am here as a stand-in for our research rapporteur, Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, who, at short notice, had to be somewhere else, but I would like to stress that, of course, I will answer any questions that may be, absolutely to the best of my ability. Thank you to the Enhedslisten for having tabled this resolution and giving us the opportunity to discuss it here today. Research is an incredibly important element for all the political work we do in here and for the entire democratic debate in Denmark. In Denmark, as you know, and fortunately for that, we have freedom of expression, and that also applies to researchers. And as several people have mentioned in the past, as a researcher, you have an obligation to give opinions. I don't think so many others in Danish society have. The starting point for researchers must always be openness, the publication of research results, as well as the fact that public employees and researchers naturally have freedom of expression, but of course this is done with due regard for the general obligation of professional secrecy. In this context, the Conservatives believe that it is important to stress, as the Minister also mentioned in his speech, that the Danish Parliament must always have accurate information for our work, and that researchers and others who supply figures, material and results to the Danish Parliament's work and decisions are not prevented from drawing Parliament's attention to whose figures, materials or results are not presented fairly to the Danish Parliament. They must always have the opportunity to make representations to the Folketing if they feel that what they have produced is interpreted in the wrong direction. But there are also very special situations where there are grounds for exceptions to freedom of expression. Several other rapporteurs have already mentioned this. It may apply to the purchase or sale of property and assets, it may apply to negotiations in the EU or similar. We will not be voting in favour of the Enhedslisten resolution, but we look forward to the work on a report in committee. And then I think that the Radical Left rapporteur, Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, said it very well, in view of the fact that it is true that we have had challenges in Denmark, and we have also criticised that on the part of the Conservative People's Party, but in the broad picture and compared with abroad, these are fortunately small challenges. But there have been contracts that have simply not been good enough, and so we are very pleased that we are looking at these broad guidelines and have already done a clean-up work on the basis of some of the cases that have been in Denmark. We look forward to the further process of this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303112334	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303112338	Thank you for that and thank you for your positive reception. There is no doubt that what the rapporteur says very precisely fences what we want to do, namely that if researchers can see that the material they have supplied in the research-based administrative service is not presented fairly to the Folketing, then they must have the opportunity to express themselves and make the elected representatives aware that there is an imbalance here that they must know because it has implications for the legislation they are about to adopt. There it is my fear that the muzzle that has been removed in the contracts, because it was not in accordance with the law, has now moved somewhere else. I just hope that the Conservative People's Party will take part in looking at this with us in committee so that we ensure that exactly the muzzle that is so crucial to our work in here is removed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303112433	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303112437	We are very happy to take part in the further debate on whether the muzzle has been moved, so to speak, because of course we must be able to live up to the intention, namely that we, as elected representatives, should have the best basis on which to make decisions. This also means that we get adequate information from the researchers. So we are happy to continue with this discussion, and of course we are also happy to hear the researchers' views on this matter. However, we are, from the outset, satisfied with the clean-up that is already under way and the revision of the guidelines, which I believe last happened in 2010, as far as I am aware and which is now being looked at.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303112509	Thank you. So there is no one else who wishes to speak and then the debate is closed. Yes, Mrs Reumert Gjerding would like to speak as rapporteur for the authors of the motion, of course. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303112529	Thank you. Thank you for today's debate and thank you for the overall and generally positive reception of our proposal. It is not a secret. I have also said in the course of the debate that this matter is basically about power. It is about the balance of power between the legislature, the Folketing, and the executive, the government, and it is about the Folketing having the tools, insight and knowledge to understand the consequences of the legislation being presented and the political agreements being concluded. As has been mentioned, and as the comments on the motion for a resolution also state, the proposal arises from the agricultural package, where a government, a ministerial, has had an interest in ensuring that oneself had exclusive access to data, to research knowledge and thus also an exclusive opportunity to present research and scientific reports in a way that would promote a minister's political objectives. This is what we saw unfolding in the scandal that came to be called the manure gate, which was revealed only because there were brave scientists who would no longer put up with this practice, which at least the Ministry of the Environment and Food apparently had been using for a long time. In the case of the agricultural package, a double muzzle was even imposed on researchers. They were both imposed on a muzzle in relation to not having to mention their research results and not being allowed to talk to the Folketing or the public about the figures they thought had been distorted, but they also got a muzzle in that they were not allowed to tell anyone that they had a muzzle. This practice is not worthy of Danish society and democracy, and it also turned out that it was illegal under Danish law, and the massive criticism raised in the wake of the agricultural package led to the Ministry of the Environment and Food recognising in March 2016 that the contracts were in breach of the administrative law. In August, the Ombudsman went into the case and asked to be informed of how the Ministry had changed its standard contracts, and then the case got off the ground. The Ministry issued new standard contracts in September. However, it was clear that the Ministry wanted to preserve the muzzle, because there was no change in the crucial factor that was about when scientists had to publish, and the Ministry held on to that despite the criticism that had been raised. This means that the Ministry could still impose confidentiality on researchers on research results for use in national decision-making processes. At the beginning of December, the Enhedslisten tabled this motion for a resolution, and at the end of December, new contracts did not smell like muzzle, as Oluf Jørgensen, Professor of Public Law put it in the media. This famous paragraph was finally taken out. However, as the Professor and others point out, the new provisions can in practice mean that the muzzle is maintained, since the administration of the Ministry is now carried out via universities, which still want contracts with the Ministry and which have now been given the opportunity to impose this muzzle and clauses, and therefore our proposal is still very topical. The proposal has two elements. There is this with the contracts and restrictive clauses, and this is where I would very much like to sign that the government has certainly moved in the right direction. However, as we have also mentioned in the debate, we are only in the end when we ensure that these clauses and this muzzle do not exist anywhere in the system and cannot be imposed on universities either. The second element of the proposal concerns the framework of the people's regime. It is about the interaction between the government and the public and the Folketing. Our proposal means that all the analyses and reports on which a political debate is based are presented when the negotiations start, not until they are over, and then published when a legislative proposal is submitted for consultation, because, as the radical rapporteur also mentioned, no one in here should be afraid to be looked at in the cards, on the contrary. We have to measure the decisions taken in here and the things we say, and that is because one of the fundamental values of our society is openness. Openness and transparency are one of the pillars on which our society and our democracy are based. It is our assurance against abuse of power when openness ensures that we rulers can be looked at in the cards, and we should stand together to safeguard that. Thank you for your consideration and thank you for the positive reception of our proposal. I am very much looking forward to the committee reading, and I really hope so, and I think there are others who have suggested that we can land a report with a broad majority.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303113107	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Education and Research Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303113132	The debate is open. Minister of Education and Research.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303113140	I would like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for discussing an important subject, namely pupils with disabilities and their ability to undertake an education. The proposal instructs the government to ensure that vocational education and training students from August 2018 receive disability allowances. The reason for the proposal is that the proposers want vocational training students to be able to receive disability allowances for their SU, as students in higher education today have the opportunity. The proposers propose an extension of the disability allowance scheme financed by reducing the SU for migrant workers from the EU. Today, students in higher education have the opportunity to receive a disability allowance next to their SU. The supplement is granted to students who have a permanent physical or mental impairment which severely restricts their ability to take up employment. It is a condition that the student receives SU or final loan. The supplement is a supplement to the regular SU scholarship or final loan and amounts to DKK 8.555. a month before tax. The scheme was introduced back in 2004. The aim was to abolish the so-called double admission. In the past, students with disabilities could apply for rehabilitation benefits instead of SU, and in order to receive rehabilitation for their education, the students had to meet two requirements. Firstly, they had to meet the general requirements for admission to higher education, and secondly, the municipality of the student made an assessment of whether the student was fit for study and would be able to enter employment and become self-employed. With the 2004 change, disabled students were assimilated to other students in terms of the possibility of opting for higher education. The reason for limiting the disability allowance was, among other things, that youth training is offered far more places than higher education. This means that pupils in upper secondary education do not have the same need to leave home and establish their own household. Another observation behind the SU disability allowance was that students with disabilities in higher education, with very significant limitations on the ability to take up employment, could be compensated for the lack of occupational income. This professional income gives the student a better chance of e.g.: to pay the costs of e.g. rent and food. Students in upper secondary education are typically younger than students in higher education. Therefore, they do not generally have the same expenditure on their own household. Persons with disabilities wishing to take a youth training course have the opportunity to seek financial support for this. The proponents want pupils in certain upper secondary educations, namely vocational training, to be treated in the same way as students in higher education. The proposal is sympathetic and I agree with the intention. We must support pupils with disabilities with opportunities for vocational training. The authors suggest that the extension of the disability allowance scheme should be achieved through a reduction of the SU for migrant workers from the EU. I am always open to discussing how to use SU funds in the best possible way, but reducing SU to migrant workers from the EU, who are not at the same time subject to Danish nationals, would be contrary to EU law. Therefore, the government cannot support the proposed funding for the extension of the scheme, but, as mentioned, the government agrees with the intention. Therefore, the government is open to discussing initiatives that can support that more young people with disabilities can get training and get jobs. I do not think, however, that the idea of extending the system should be seen to be detached. These considerations should be part of an overall discussion on how best to use the funds available within the financial framework of the SU system. In this context, I also believe it is important to discuss how the SU system can best support young people with disabilities and their ability to carry out training. My proposal is therefore that, in the context of the forthcoming SU initiative, we should also discuss how to design the disability allowance scheme in the best possible way, and on that basis the government cannot therefore support the draft parliamentary resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303113538	There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303113546	I can see that some of the Minister's answers correspond to the answers I have received from the Ministry in the past, and that is of course no wonder. But I still wonder why the Minister is saying that students in vocational schools need it less. In other words, if you are young and have a disability, do you have a different need for support? And if you can't stay at home for various reasons, do you need this disability allowance less if you go to vocational training than if you go to higher education?
ParlaMint-DK_20170303113617	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303113621	This is, of course, the question of the decentralized element which I also touched on in my speech. But you can look at that differently, and it's an honest matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303113627	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303113631	I didn't quite understand that. The minister's reply is that it's decentralized as I heard it. If you are young and have a disability, why does it make a difference whether you are in one or the other education? Isn't your needs exactly the same, whether you are of one age or another, if you have the same disability or have the same problems, the same challenges and the same needs? Isn't the need the same?
ParlaMint-DK_20170303113656	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303113700	Of course, if the needs are exactly the same, that is true. But what is the question is whether they are.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303113704	Then it's Marlene Harpsoe.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303113708	I would like to thank the Minister for at least a little sympathy with us by saying that the Minister will look at this in the context of some future negotiations. Now we in the Danish People's Party are very concerned that more people have to take a vocational training course, and as we see the system today, one has to say that if you are disabled and take a higher education, you can get a disability allowance, but the same incentive is not in relation to taking a vocational training course. Can the Minister not see that there are some conditions here that we should somehow standardise if we also want more skilled workers to come? Because the government itself says that Denmark needs more skilled workers. So how will the Minister respond?
ParlaMint-DK_20170303113800	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303113802	But I think that the best way to deal with this, because there is a framework for us to come together, is to discuss it in the negotiations that I have announced and which I hope and know that the Danish People's Party will also participate in. Then the views will have to be put to the test in those negotiations, and then we will have to find a solution, as we usually do, by the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303113826	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303113829	Thank you. It is probably not a surprise that we in the Danish People's Party are a little impatient on this point, because it is absolutely necessary to have more skilled workers as soon as possible. So it doesn't matter that the minister gets into work a little quickly here. In relation to funding, the Minister disagrees slightly. What I hear is that the cost of migrant workers has gone from a level of 19 million. kr. in 2012 expenditure to now an expected level of 0.5 billion. kr. This year. So isn't the Minister thinking that there's an opportunity to find some money in this area? In any case, I think it sounds as if the costs in this area have gone completely crazy and I think that the disabled in vocational training would benefit more from this money.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303113920	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303113922	However, it is quite true that the conciliation procedure in the area of SU shows that the cost must not exceed 420 million. kr., and if they do, the conciliation parties have undertaken to find the money within the framework. That is why we need to talk, and I am actually confident that we can and can find solutions. When the limit is set at the 420 million. Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303113951	Then it's mr. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303113954	Thank you. Normally, I'm not so concerned about procedural matters in politics. I think that the policy is more exciting, but it seems that we all agree, at least what I hear, in a broad majority of the Committee's committees, that this should be changed and that it should be treated equally so that vocational training students can also receive a disability allowance for the SU. When a whole conciliation group agrees, why is it that you cannot just meet in the conciliation circle immediately and try to see if you can find a solution to the problem? As I understand the process of an SU reform, it has been postponed until next year, and we do not know when next year it will be negotiated. By the way, it's a multi-billion-dollar reform where this costs 45 million. kr. after retreat. Would it be smarter to do that now?
ParlaMint-DK_20170303114039	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303114041	I understand the opposition's interest in splitting up all the negotiations and just solving things one by one, but I think it is fair when it comes to a conciliation, which is after all a matter of the SU, to see things in a whole and where all parties are properly and thoroughly consulted, and to have a proper course of negotiation. So that's the reason. But I have noted Parliament's impatience. Well, sir, that's what I'm gonna need. Jacob Mark not to worry about at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303114111	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303114113	Thank you. I am glad that the Minister has taken note of that. So I just want to hear first of all: does the Minister think that this should change? That's what I saw in the speech. Secondly, can we not do this without making a multi-billion-dollar SU reform?
ParlaMint-DK_20170303114129	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303114131	I believe that the answers I gave in my speech cover the questions which Mr. Jacob Mark did.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303114136	We thank the Minister. There are no more brief comments. We are going to the rapporteur's round. First, Mrs Mette Reissmann, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303114146	With B 62, the proposers focus on the conditions of the education system for students with disabilities. The opportunities to take an education for students with disabilities should, of course, be good as for students without disabilities. Therefore, it is also important that we in Denmark work to ensure the best possible framework for a person's disability not restricting his or her ability to train, as far as skills and diligence are concerned. This is an important debate. That is why it is good that we are addressing it now, and the Social Democrats would also like to thank the proposers for putting it on today's agenda. Today, people with disabilities in higher education have the opportunity to receive an economic supplement to their SU in the form of a disability allowance. The supplement is intended to compensate for the limited ability of disabled people to take up employment while studying. There is no doubt that students today only very, very rarely can maintain what we call a reasonable basis of living while they are reading, while at the same time having full focus on their studies. Students with disabilities, if possible, have even greater challenges with it. As rightly pointed out in the comments to the motion for a resolution, students with disabilities in vocational training are not covered by this possibility. There have been various reasons why the supplement has been designed in its time as it is. The minister has mentioned this. However, the proposal addresses the right issue in this context, in that both higher education and vocational training are responsible for competence. There is no doubt that the Social Democratic Party attaches equal importance to the competences of vocational training and higher education. Both are needed. Against this background, of course, it is also reasonable to consider whether it is not time to balance out the inequality that exists in the possibility that students with disabilities may benefit from this disability allowance. If you are enrolled in vocational training, you must, of course, be treated in the same way as people with disabilities who are studying in higher education. For example, special educational support is available today for people with disabilities both in upper secondary and higher education. If I am to sum up the attitude of the Social Democrats towards this, I would say that we are extremely positive about the intention and background of the material, the resolution. However, the proposal cannot be supported by us, because we do not believe that the financing order is reasonable from the point of view of the resolution. It is not an issue to be dealt with through this in the Folketing. It must be dealt with in the conciliation circle. Of course, as has already been understood in some of the questions in the Chamber, I would also like to call on the proposers to address this issue in the relevant conciliation group. There is no doubt that the Social Democratic Party will be constructive and also positive in discussing the problem. But we do not support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303114447	There is a brief comment from Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303114451	I would like to thank the rapporteur for his agreement in principle, and I would like to know whether the funding is so far away, because in the area we are pointing to we have had an increase from 19 million. kr. in 2012 to use expected 500 million. kr. This year. Could the Social Democrats not agree that there could well be scope for the potential to find the means if we got to grips with this issue, which I know we are going to discuss a little later today? However, in order to anticipate this, I would like to know whether the rapporteur does not agree that there could actually be an economic potential we could use for this purpose.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303114532	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303114535	Now, sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl is absolutely right that we are about to discuss a very exciting thing too, for which the Danish People's Party is the proposers, namely the SU for migrant workers. We can do some bridge building here. I'd like to be a part of that. However, I would just like to stress once again that we do not want to have such secessionary decision-making processes in an extremely important area, among other things. The same is true of students with disabilities, but also of the SU system in general. We would like to see it in a context. I think it is fair that we should have plenty of time in the SU conciliation circle to get all the elements on the table and see all the advantages and disadvantages of the various things. In relation to the money, the amount of money that is being discussed, I would say that it could be easy just to say that they can easily be found within that. But there is no way I can stand here and say that. We need to have a thorough discussion of this in the context of the other elements contained in the whole SU phenomenon when we sit in the conciliation circle. I would also like to say, as Mr. Jacob Mark from SF, among others. in his question: could it not be that we could get started?
ParlaMint-DK_20170303114648	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303114652	Mrs Mette Reissmann gives a long and yawned answer to a simple question for me: is there really not a potential in the funding we have pointed out to find funds for this, and whether it necessarily needs to be dressed in a joint debate on the overall SU system, or if one could say that this is a small corner, which we agree to solve, and thus we do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303114718	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303114720	With all due respect, again, with fear of repeating myself, I would just like to say to Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, that it is important that things are seen in context. In fact, I think that it is the citizen of a professional attitude to work and to the situation that we look at things in context and do not start and let me just say that 45 million. kr. I'm not a handkerchief, but now I'm still using the term "to hand out hands" for a good enough incredibly legitimate purpose. That is why the answer is brief and good and without wrapping it anywhere: No, we are not taking a position on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303114755	Then it's Mrs. Marlene Harpsoe.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303114759	500 million I should also like to say to Mrs Mette Reissmann that we are not going to spend on the SU for migrant workers. That is why I think it is appropriate to find a solution as soon as possible for the explosively rising costs that we have here and to put in place some expenditure for people with disabilities on vocational training rather than vocational training. Does Mrs Mette Reissmann not agree that we could do so much good if we actually secured this disability allowance for people with disabilities in vocational training, also to ensure that more people take vocational training?
ParlaMint-DK_20170303114843	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303114846	Social democracy also wants to do good. There should be no doubt about that. I also want to do good personally, also for students with disabilities, and also for students who are generally in our vocational training programmes, including those who are there without disabilities. But I also actually just have the approach that when it comes to economics, I take it very seriously. In fact, I go to all economic negotiations with a high degree of professionalism, and I also think that this is best done by taking it over into the conciliation circle where it belongs.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303114910	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303114915	I am, of course, pleased that professionalism will be brought into our work here in the Folketing. I'm only glad you do. Deep down, we should have solved this many years ago. It is a pity that we have not been aware of this before. That is why we also have an agenda on the part of the Danish People's Party, because also in recognition of the fact that we lack a great many skilled people, we would like to get this in place as soon as possible. Does Mette Reissmann himself have such a time limit for when the Social Democratic Party wants this to be done?
ParlaMint-DK_20170303114952	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303114955	Social democracy is also concerned with the fact that we have more young people trained within the occupational part of our education system. I believe that we have launched several initiatives in other forums, and I hope that the Danish People's Party will support them there. We can take that another time, but it's incredibly important. We are lacking in skilled young people, and we are also lacking in people who are in the middle of their lives who can take up further training or be trained to meet the challenges of the labour market. To be specific, I would just like to say that it must be taken in the conciliation circle and I would like to support a request to the Minister that we be invited when it is that...
ParlaMint-DK_20170303115038	Thank you to Mrs Mette Reissmann. There are no more brief comments. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Jakob Engel-Schmidt, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303115046	Thank you for that, President. I would like to start by thanking the authors of the motion for a resolution for raising the debate on pupils with disabilities. The success of vocational training and the success of the new eux and reform is something that, personally, is of great concern to me, and it is also something that we should discuss in the conciliation circle, as several of my colleagues have mentioned. It is no secret that more studies from among others. The AE Council and even the Danish Industry • I think even the CEPOS has looked at it • shows that in a few years' time we will be missing a great many skilled workers in our labour market. It is in the construction sector, it is in the services sector, and it is in the mercantile areas, and our economy can actually suffer a loss if you cannot provide the necessary labour. That is why it is also important that we tackle one of the educational prejudices that exist, which many do not talk about, but which exist and appear when you talk to the parents who help their children choose youth education or vocational training. That prejudice is being fought, but it still exists, namely that it is best to go to high school. I have said before that if I had the opportunity, I would like to gather all Danish mothers in a sports hall first in Jutland, then in Odense and then in Copenhagen and say: We would just like to stress that we might have talked a little too much about stx and that it would be very good if we looked at the individual student and assessed what was best for him in terms of youth education/training. And with the new eux, I think there are really good arguments for creating this parallelity. That is why it is very important for me and the Left that there is no advantage that there is no better relationship in one place compared to the other. I would therefore also like to acknowledge, as I was going to do before, that this is an area we should look at. It is a problem when it is the case that there is a larger disability supplement in one place, while in the other place you have to apply for it from the municipality. I would also like to say that I am a little surprised that we have not been made aware of this in the conciliation circle and that we have not been asked to have a debate on it there, but instead the motion for a resolution has been tabled. I am in favour of this, of course, also giving rise to a debate, and we will of course now have that opportunity, and it is also against this background that I am in favour of the intention, and indeed also on behalf of my party, and recognise in general that there is a challenge that we should be discussing. Having said that, the Left cannot support the motion for a resolution. I do not sense that it comes as a great surprise, since the Minister has already expressed it. But we are interested in taking the dialogue. We are also interested in digging out how, within the current guidelines both from the European Union and with defence initiatives, any funds can be found. But, as the Minister also stressed, we also see it in a broader perspective. With those words, I would like to thank you for your speaking time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303115357	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we move on to the next in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mr Beazley. Jakob Silverhøj from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303115405	Thank you. It is an important principle of the UN Convention on Disability that participants should ensure that people with disabilities have access to both general higher education and vocational training, and that they have access to it without discrimination and on an equal footing with others. This means, among other things, that proper economic conditions must be ensured for those concerned and, as several rapporteurs have already mentioned, young people with disabilities are very limited in their ability to take up employment alongside their education. Therefore, it is very good and even in good accordance with the Disability Convention that it is possible for students with disabilities to receive a disability allowance for their SU when they go to higher education. On the other hand, there is a lack of a reasonable explanation for the fact that young people undergoing vocational training do not have a corresponding right to a disability allowance on their education. Why should it be the case that young people with disabilities who go on vocational training are less economically disadvantaged than young people with disabilities who do not go on vocational training? This is an unfair discrimination, and it is incredibly bad in line with the good intentions that are constantly being expressed, only a moment ago from the platform here, that we must give more priority to vocational training and do what we can to motivate more young people to take up vocational training. How good intentions are linked to the fact that there is a much better economic basis when you take higher education than when you take vocational training, I, like the authors of the motion, find it very difficult to see. So I would simply like to say that we see it as the motion for a resolution from the Danish People's Party calling for the elimination of discrimination, so that young people with disabilities who go on vocational training are treated in the same way as young people who go on higher education, and we fully agree with that in the Enhedslisten, and we therefore support the proposal. As far as the funding of the proposal is concerned, it was perhaps somewhat predictable that we would have a debate on it. There is obviously a crunch about funding. I am not going to anticipate the discussion that will take place in this Chamber a little later today. We agree that there are major problems in the way in which the cost of the SU for migrant workers has escalated, and our rapporteur will go into this in greater detail. So we totally share the concern. On the other hand, I think it is really important if it is a real crux of resolving the problem, if it is the case that there is no majority behind this proposal, simply on the grounds that it is contrary to the agreements we have made in the European Union, or to the ruling of the European Court of Justice on the reception of the SU by migrant workers, that we are debating whether there are other forms of funding. Because I think that the purpose of this proposal is so incredibly important that it should not be pushed aside because of the political disagreements that exist about how we deal with the whole area of the SU in relation to the judicial decision that has fallen in the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303115752	There is a brief comment from Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303115755	That is quite short, because I was just a little bit unsure of how much of the resolution the rapporteur supports. That is so out of curiosity: so the Enhedslisten supports the whole motion for a resolution, including the proposal for financing that lies here?
ParlaMint-DK_20170303115812	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303115814	I think it would probably be impossible to obtain funding, and I do so on the basis of the discussions that we have had before the first reading today and the reports that have been heard both publicly and in this Chamber. That is why I would like us to address the problem of the SU in relation to migrant workers. We will have a debate on this later, in which decisions will also have to be taken in this regard, i.e. when, after the debate on the question, we will have to vote on proposals for adoption in this Chamber. In relation to funding, we have come to the realization that no majority can be obtained for such a proposal, and that is why we think it is really important that it not only ends up in nothing because of the shadows of the SU, but that it is discussed how to find another funding.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303115906	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Jakob Silverhøj, and then... it was at the last minute. Mrs. Marlene Harpsoe, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303115912	I thought Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier had one more brief comment. I would like to ask a question, because I think it was a somewhat weary answer from the Enhedslisten. You guys don't usually know about that. I think a very specific question was asked: does the Enhedslisten support funding in this proposal, or does it not support yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20170303115936	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303115937	We agree that there is a major problem. The questioner himself has highlighted the figures several times in the debate already, i.e. that the costs will escalate and will be around 500 million. kr. I will not rule out the fact that we can vote in favour of such a proposal when it comes to the vote here, in other words vote in favour of funding being made in this way. I just want to say that we have to look each other in the eye and ask: is it the case that we believe that such a proposal will be adopted if there is the SU funding? As I hear it, the safe way to not adopting this proposal is to maintain that funding. That is why we agree with the questioner that we have a major problem with the SU in relation to migrant workers. We think, on the other hand, it would be really stupid just to run your forehead against a wall. It can be said that we can then stand with the victory that a problem has been revealed on the issue of the SU in relation to the European Union and, on the other hand, we have not solved the problem for disabled citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303120046	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Jakob Silver Mound and move on to Mr. Henrik Dahl as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303120056	Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 62 is a proposal which obliges the government to ensure that students in vocational training from August 2018 receive disability allowances for their SU. The original reason for distinguishing between higher education and vocational training in the case of disability allowances was that pupils in vocational education and training were younger than students in higher education and therefore lived at home. And because they lived at home, they didn't have the extra costs that the non-resident students had, and hence came the need for supplements. What may at some point be a good reason for bringing together a majority may at another time prove to be a bad justification, for which there is no majority. That's the way it is. We are, of course, in favour of the state supporting people with disabilities in their efforts to get an education, and we would like to look at the whole area. There's gonna be some really boring process talk in there anyway. I also believe that we need to look at the whole area of the SU as a whole. We will have to discuss the question of migrant workers in greater depth later on, and an analysis has been made. From the meetings I myself have been to, I also remember that the scope for manoeuvre in relation to the European Union is very, very difficult. So it's going to be extremely complicated to look at all these things. And because it is just going to be so complicated to go into this whole issue, it is so that I support the fact that the issue that is being raised is being thoroughly analysed and that we find a sensible solution. However, I believe that this must be included in the overall negotiations when we have to find a comprehensive system at some point and a comprehensive reform of State education aid. So the Liberal Alliance would very much like to help try to find some sort of solution. But in the form of this motion for a resolution, we cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303120316	There is a brief comment on Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303120321	Thank you. In principle, I agree that we should see things together. When we bring this up now, it's just because we think that there is an obvious bias here that we should correct. In fact, I also hear widely that everyone here, including the rapporteur, agrees that we should correct this. I would therefore like to ask whether the rapporteur could not nevertheless be prepared for this to be something that we are not just waiting for until we have to discuss the SU as a whole some time ago, but that it is actually something that we can tackle and say that we agree on the need to be resolved. Then we can have a discussion on funding, and I am in favour of that. However, can the rapporteur confirm that the Liberal Alliance will help to find a solution to this and also find it faster than it has been?
ParlaMint-DK_20170303120413	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303120415	I am very interested in political history, and I am also very interested in the fact that our democracy in general works better than it does today. One of the problems we have is patch solutions, that is, that we have a tendency to make patch solutions. I would therefore like to warn against this, at the same time as I think it is excellent that something is being done to improve the conditions of disabled people. So because patch solutions are so often a problem, I think we should try not to make one here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303120454	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303120457	The rapporteur says patchy solutions, but here we have a problem where there is a broad consensus that things should change. We also agree, I assume, that vocational training is really important. We see a growing need and all forecasts say that it will certainly not be less in the coming years. Then why is it that we cannot agree to say that this is not a patchy solution, but that this is a natural part that we forgot to bring back in 2004 when we made this arrangement and that we are therefore just going to solve it now, and then we are going to look at the whole at another time?
ParlaMint-DK_20170303120537	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303120540	As I also mentioned, it can be said that, for a decade, what is a good justification may, in the decade after that, prove to be a really bad justification, and that is what is, as it were, the case here. We can agree on this very quickly. However, as several rapporteurs have also mentioned, there is a problem of funding, and with regard to the funding proposed, I just have the memory of the meetings I myself have been to about the SU for migrant workers that this is a technically very, very difficult issue, because the EU is actually restricting the scope of the Folketing quite considerably.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303120618	Mrs. Marlene Harpsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303120620	Thank you. One of the things we say on the part of the Danish People's Party in this motion for a resolution that we are now debating is that we are instructing the government to ensure that students in vocational education and training from August 2018 are allowed to receive disability allowances for their SU. August 2018, that is, it's over another year. How will the Liberal Alliance help to ensure that this proposal gets through if we do not want to vote in favour of it today?
ParlaMint-DK_20170303120650	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303120651	But we will do so in the way that we obviously disagree politically, by saying that this is an important part of an overall discussion of the SU system. That is a correct analysis, you might think it is a wrong analysis, but I have the really solid conviction that we must try to find a comprehensive solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303120713	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303120714	I also think it is important that we discuss some time horizon in this, because we have a situation in which Denmark really needs more skilled workers. I know that this may be a small part of the overall total and all the skilled people we actually need, but it is important. And I think that a timeline that says that by August 2018 this should be in place is good. Will the Liberal Alliance contribute to this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170303120746	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303120747	Unfortunately, we have only 13 seats, so we have to contribute to this together with some others. But now there is certainly a motivation for us to negotiate quickly and effectively so that we may be able to achieve the timetable envisaged in the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303120804	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, and we move on to Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303120812	Thank you. I shall also begin by crediting the Danish People's Party to present this motion for a resolution, particularly in relation to its intention, i.e. to achieve equality between students with disabilities who receive SU and who are in higher education, and then those who go on our vocational training. We fully agree in the alternative that there is no reasonable reason for there to be a difference in relation to the right to receive disability allowances. So that part of it, especially from an equal opportunities and diversity perspective, we support one hundred percent and we also want to help find a solution. Then we come to the issue of funding, which I must also deal with, of course, we all have to do when it is mentioned as a proposal in this motion for a resolution that funding should be found through a reduction of the SU for migrant workers from the European Union. After all, the concept of migrant workers is an interesting concept, because it sounds as if all the students who come to Denmark from the EU come up here and get SU, take an education and then leave again. Some do. But there are a lot of people who stay in Denmark and who contribute to Danish welfare, and there are also many who actually go home after they have finished working, but before they have to have a retirement pension. At least there's a pattern that shows that. So there are also a great many gains from European students coming to Denmark. I visited Novozymes two days ago with the Education and Research Committee, and some of what we discussed with Novozymes was, in fact, how they ensure that they get the necessary labour they need, that is, the competent staff, who are the best in particular biology, which is what they are working with. There was no doubt that they recruit their students already during their studies to make sure that they can stay in Denmark and get a job in Novozymes once they have finished their studies. So we should not close our eyes to the fact that we need foreign students in Denmark either. That is why we cannot support the motion for a resolution. Because we cannot support the financing model, and then I anticipate the issues that are called where to find the money, and I do not know that, but we would like to be involved in the discussions. We would also just like to say straight away that it has been seen before that political agreements have been made in a resort area where money has been found in another resort area, and I can only mention the police negotiations last year, where, unfortunately, the money was found in the area of the Ministry of Education's area of resort. But it's been seen before, and it could be that you had to consider whether we shouldn't find the money for this disability supplement somewhere other than in the field of the Ministry of Education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303121114	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303121130	In the Radical Left, too, we are very much in favour of the content of the resolution. It makes perfect sense that students in vocational training, who have to leave a great many of them in direct employment afterwards, should also have access to disability allowances in cases where it would otherwise be an obstacle for them to undertake vocational training. There is no doubt that we need many more skilled craftsmen, and we also need what several rapporteurs have mentioned, really equal access to all our education. Then I have the sceptical remarks that others have made. Like others, we are somewhat sceptical about withdrawing the proposal from the conciliation circle alone. It is, of course, a conciliation group, of which the Danish People's Party is also a part, but even more important, so we disagree with the funding here. We think it is a good thing that we get foreign students to Denmark, and we then have a common agreement, also in the conciliation circle, to follow the framework for SU spending here too. We can discuss that in a moment with the question. But we do not want to trade in the internationalisation of our education here. On the other hand, we are very much in favour of moving forward with the proposal for genuine equal access to training, including vocational training, and then finding funding on which we can agree. As far as the Radical Left is concerned, that does not have to wait.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303121319	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Jacob Mark, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303121333	In the SF, we also think this is an excellent proposal. That is what I have been out to say several times today. After all, we are basically of the opinion that we must provide young people with the best conditions for carrying out education, wherever they come from, regardless of what their parents earn and whatever they have of physical opportunity or lack of it. That is why I would also like to take as a starting point Bo, whom I have also mentioned a few times today, which illustrates this example of the SU disability supplement quite strikingly. If a guy named Bo, who has a disability and is entitled to a disability allowance in higher education, chooses to go in and study political science, he can get a supplement to help him through his education and further into the labour market afterwards, but if Bo instead had chosen to be a carpenter or take another vocational or other youth education, for example, he could not receive disability allowance. This does not really make any sense, and that is why I am actually quite glad that there is such a broad recognition in the Assembly that we need to do something about this. I would also like to look at it broadly, in other words in the field of youth education, because, like me, there are more people who have to take vocational training, I think that if you have a disability, you need help with the youth education that you now want to read. After all, the funny thing about this debate is that it has revolved most around the funding of the proposal, and I actually like that very much, because then you are very close to a specific debate where this might be possible right up until I heard the Minister say that we will not take that until next year with a huge reform that could be postponed if we do not agree in the conciliation circle for several years to come. Now, if you picked out the other model and among the parties that agree, you said you'd sit down and find out if you could find this 45 million. kr. Somewhere, what would there be of opportunity? Then the Danish People's Party has put forward a proposal to take it on migrant workers, and I am quite convinced that the Danish People's Party knows very well that it would probably mean that we would be dragged into EU law if we made a difference between students. The Minister has also explained this. The Danish People's Party also knows very well that those parties that believe that a European Union is needed in the future cannot be involved. On the other hand, as Mrs Marlene Harpsøe has said, we are spending a great deal of money, and we are also spending more money than ever on migrant workers receiving SU. I feel that if some of the initiatives we have already set in motion could work, or if we could set in motion some new initiatives to ensure that fewer migrant workers received the SU and if we could reduce the spending framework we have put in this area, I think it is some 400 million. kr., maybe 420 million. kr. Conversely, I am also ready with funding that I have proposed today. It was said to the educational institutions that we simply set a ceiling on how much you can spend on advertising. It is a revenant in the political debate. It was said that you may spend a maximum of a certain percentage of your budget on advertising. If you compare it with what they are using today, you take the excess funds and use them to introduce this disability supplement. I believe that in the past, the figures from the Ministry of Education have shown that creating such a ceiling would generate revenue of more than 100 million, and today I am going to ask for updated figures so that we can see if it could be a financing option. But, after all, I am just interested in this coming through, because it will mean a lot to some people who really need some special help, and that is why I think that in the conciliation circle, and perhaps already in a report among the conciliation parties, we could agree that this is something we should do something about, because it makes very good sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303121726	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jakob Engel-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303121729	After all, we are all enjoying Mr. Jacob Mark's little human stories. Today it's Bo, it's about; last week it was a different character. I simply need to know how old that Bo is and how long he has existed in Mr Bo. Jacob Mark universe.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303121743	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303121745	My little grades are fictional. Otherwise, I'd say it's explicit if I knew Bo right. It was more to say that if a type called Bo, no matter how old he was, wanted to study a vocational training course, he would not be able to receive the SU disability allowance, but if he chose to enter higher education at some point, he would be able to get it. I don't think that difference makes any sense, and it's then whether the person's name is Bo or Jacob, or her name is Birthe.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303121818	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303121820	I also like to communicate in the same way as the rapporteur. When I take the liberty of asking about Bo's age, it is because my own experience in vocational training tells me that he is either an adult or comes directly from primary school or something subsequent to that, and then Bo is at least older than this parliamentary term. If I may point out that it was just because it was not more than a few years ago, sir. Jacob Mark's party was co-author of an SU reform, where this problem was also recognised, but where nothing was done about it at the time. I understand, sir. Jacob Mark wasn't in the thing at the time, but sir. Jacob Mark might explain why the problem was not found to be worth resolving at the time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303121855	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303121859	After all, I did not stand and shoot on the left today and say that it is too bad that the Left does not introduce this. On the contrary, I have actually seen such recognition by all parties that it is a problem that we have not done anything about this in the past, and thus it is also a problem that SF has done nothing about this earlier when we had the opportunity. That's why I'm just so obsessed that we're taking this opportunity now. We agree that we need to do something about this. There may be different funding options: let us do something about it!
ParlaMint-DK_20170303121929	Thank you to the rapporteur. We are here to see that it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303121948	Thank you for that and thank you for the debate. We have a time when we are talking more and more about vocational training; we have a time when we talk a lot about the importance of vocational training, as important as higher education. But are we serious? For a long time now, I have sought to promote smaller measures such as what we are discussing today, namely that there must be equality between education and training. Of course, it should not be which training one chooses, which determines whether or not one can receive the aid. I have asked successive ministers on several occasions whether we could do something about this, but have received answers that were about the fact that it was so few that it was about and that it was not relevant and that with the people who went on vocational training, who were spread across the country, so there was not much need. But when I hear that some people are opting out of vocational training because there is no possibility of disability allowances when I hear about Bo, who has probably also been in this and has not been able to finance the implementation of his education because there is no supplement, I have to say that that is not good enough. That can't be what we want. Then in today's debate I hear such positive voices virtually all around saying that this is something we have to look at, but I also hear many who say that we have to look at it sometime when we are sitting around looking at something else. There I have to admit that we in the Danish People's Party think it is really too important. And now that we agree that we want vocational training, when we agree that this is an equality that we should maintain, I do not quite understand that we cannot agree that this is something we want to tackle more quickly. We have also deliberately written that this is not something that should work this summer, but from next summer, so that there was indeed an opportunity for us to find the funding together. We have proposed this funding here and we shall be debating this issue in a moment in this Chamber • because we have an area of migrant workers where the cost from 2012 to today has risen 2,600 per cent, I think, from 19 million. kr. in 2012 to expected 500 million. kr. in 2017. Shouldn't there be anything to pick up there? Then I fully agree that you can say that you do not want to do that, and then I am clearly prepared that we must find the money in a different way, because this is an important issue. Of course we can sit together and find the 45 million. kr., this is about, so we can establish this equality. I'm also ready to talk to the conciliation board that what I have to do, of course, is to bring the conciliation circle together. I hear everyone in the conciliation circle say this is a good thing. Therefore, there should also be an opportunity to write a report which actually obliges the conciliation circle to address this. And I hope that we can also reach a broad consensus that we can tackle it a little faster than if we wait until 2018, 2019 or 2020 to take on it at all. Then we are asked why we did not solve it last time, and we must all look into each other's eyes and say that it was not up as a problem we should have solved. I can be sorry about that. Why haven't we solved it a long time ago? It is just enough for me to see an additional reason for • when we agree that we should have had it taken care of that we are now getting something done about it. That is why I do not really want to say much more than thanking you for the debate, thanking you for the input and saying that I will try to make a report in which we can tackle this and create a basis for funding that can cover it here. And as Enhedslisten says, and I am glad that Enhedslisten will support our funding, there is, of course, a point in not allowing the good purpose to disappear, because we are sticking to a funding that we may not be able to get through, because that is the purpose of this, and it is the introduction of disability allowances on vocational training which is central to us to achieve relatively quickly. So, with these words, I would really like to thank you for the debate and I hope that we can achieve agreement in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303122356	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303122359	Thank you. Now I didn't hear my own rapporteur, sir. Jakob Sølvhøj, so that he said that we support the funding. He was just pointing out that apparently there is no majority for it. It is, of course, a good proposal on which everyone agrees, and it is a shame and a disgrace if the Folketing cannot find out how to find that money at a reasonable rate, as simple as that. However, I would like to ask about the funding, because I do not really understand why the Danish People's Party is making the proposal that it should be financed by saving on the cost of the SU for migrant workers. Because, as the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur pointed out, it is not the Folketing that decides what to cost. It is the European Court of Justice that has said what rules we have to follow, and that is why expenditure in this area has increased, as several people have pointed out. So how will the Danish People's Party make savings in this area? Perhaps we could find a way to jointly challenge the European Court of Justice in that field that the Enhedslisten would like to be involved in. But we know in advance that there is a strong majority in the Folketing that will reject this. So how will the Danish People's Party manage to save on migrant workers' access to the SU?
ParlaMint-DK_20170303122517	Then it is the rapporteur who has to answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303122518	Thank you for the question. This is something we will be debating in the next few minutes in this Chamber, because the next question is exactly how to deal with this issue. It can be said that we have an SU agreement from 2013, which has been described as having to work actively on the part of the government to change the rules down in the EU. We probably both know that neither today nor tomorrow, but it is a clear agreement that it should take place and, in addition, there could be various defence initiatives. That is to say, it could be about some requirements you could make to students studying in Denmark who, of course, must be the same as those to which the Danish students must live up to. It could, for example, be done. I think we should be able to speak Danish. Well, I guess we're a little on this road. There are different options for putting some protection in this • we have to do something to stop the increase that is • and if we do it effectively, then we might hit a bit below, so we might only be 10 or 15 times above the level we had in 2012, and then we would have plenty of means to implement this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303122624	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303122626	Thank you. I think the rapporteur knows very well what the Court will say to a demand to foreign students that they can only study here if they can speak Danish and if they cannot, they should not have Danish SU. So I guess there's no way there either. In other words, the rapporteur will have to face up to the fact that it is the European Union that controls what the SU of migrant workers will cost, and then the rapporteur will have to make a bid as to where to find the money. My question relates to the fact that it sounds as if it should be found within the SU system, as the rapporteur says. So I ask: will the rapporteur really help to save elsewhere in the SU system to finance this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170303122704	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303122705	Those were several questions at the same time. First of all, I do not think that there is any problem with the European Court of Justice if we make the same demands on Danish and foreign students. So if we called for it to be done in Danish, then I think we are fully entitled to do so, and I do not think the Court could come after that. So there's actually a road there. Apart from that, we have seen this as an opportunity to find the means for it. It is not because we are necessarily saying that it has to be found elsewhere in the SU system; we are also looking for other ways of financing. That is one of the things we need to take in the follow-up debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303122739	Thank you. We are well under way in the next debate, I can hear, but now it is Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303122744	After all, I have a very large veneration for DF's rapporteur, but I could not help but be somewhat provoked by what was said at the end. My educational background is that I have read 3 of the 5 years I have studied in English. I studied international business as a candidate, and the students who have read the same thing have got sensible jobs and are very much contributing through the top tax to the Treasury, as do all sorts of others, in this case from the Business College. If sir... Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl wants to abolish the education, then it will cost Denmark considerable revenue. Is that really sensible?
ParlaMint-DK_20170303122816	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303122818	I think this is an area on which we need to discuss it. At the same time, I also know that there are quite a few places of study where there are almost exclusively foreign students who come to take an education and then return home. Yeah, I think we can stop for that. Are we going to have courses in English or not? We have our accreditation system, we will also have the debate later today, where it can be said that if you are going to have an English language education, it must actually be needed in the Danish labour market. This is a whole debate on its own, which I think we will probably have a little later today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303122852	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303122854	Yes, I can fully agree with that view, sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl argues. And then, for general information, I can just say that CBS' programmes in English are those programmes in social sciences which have the very lowest level of graduation and the highest starting salary.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303122911	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303122911-2	Yes, but I don't imagine that they do because they teach in English. They probably do because they are really good and that out there they teach students a lot so they can get into the Danish labour market and man it with some really smart people.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303122925	As no one else has asked for the floor for this debate, but perhaps for the next debate, the debate has ended. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Education and Research Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303122943	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 14 March 2017. For the explanatory statement of the question, I give the floor to the author of the question, Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303123004	Thank you. When we have put this theme to a debate, it is about the fact that in recent years there has been a very large increase in the number of migrant workers coming to Denmark, taking an education and receiving SU. The background to this is very much a ruling by the European Court of Justice, which came just as we were working on the reform of the SU in 2013. The verdict gave rights to migrant workers to take up training and receive SU. In the Danish People's Party, we were very aware of the challenge of this opening because it could attract many young people from other EU countries. That is why we are also pleased that the agreement on the reform of the SU in 2013 clearly described that developments should be followed and a ceiling set which, if reached, should trigger a number of measures. As the main point of the agreement, Denmark will work actively in any relevant European context to promote the conditions for maintaining the current Danish SU system. And because of the fact that it might take a little time to get it through the EU, it says that at the same time protective incentives should be put in place to limit the number of migrant workers studying and receiving SU in Denmark. Finally, the agreement states that if the ceiling is exceeded, the additional amount must be found within the framework of the SU system, which means that ultimately all other recipients of the SU must be reduced to the SU so that we can pay the SU to migrant workers. This is a consequence which I do not think anyone wants and which can become a reality if we do nothing. Now we are in the situation where the ceiling set has been reached, and so we are asking the Minister today what initiatives the government will take to meet the various points of the agreement and to ensure a reduction in the number of migrant workers studying and receiving SU in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303123142	Then it is the Minister of Education and Research for answers.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303123157	Thank you for the floor and thank you for the opportunity to discuss a subject which is of great concern to the government. I am asked in the question what initiatives I will take to ensure a reduction in the number of migrant workers studying and receiving SU in Denmark. The government supports freedom of movement, it is a cornerstone of the internal market, and it is a prerequisite for growth and employment in Europe and in Denmark. It is worth remembering that foreign students can also in many cases be a gain for Denmark. And that's why we're looking at the total calculation of the socio-economic gains of international students. But the European Union must not move towards a social union. It has never been the intention of the Danish education system and the EU's internal market to travel to Denmark to take free education at SU and return home. In an international context, the Danish SU system is very generous, while at the same time the system's robustness is pressured by e.g.: an increasing influx of foreign students. Let me make it clear that I share the concern of the author of the question about the large increase in the number of migrant workers receiving Danish SU. It is an important addition that they receive Danish SU. Therefore, as agreed in the 2013 SU reform, we are closely following developments, among others. through annual reporting to the SU board on the development of the number of EU/EEA citizens with Danish SU. At the same time, we are following developments in the provision of English-language courses, and we are following them. The EU/EEA citizens who receive SU as migrant workers retain their status throughout the course of the training, as students who do not meet the conditions lose the right to the SU. The government is aware that the Danish SU is very high compared to e.g. the other Nordic countries, why we risk becoming a kind of magnet for foreign students who come to Denmark to benefit from the free education and the high SU, but who do not stay and work in Denmark after completing education. Figures from autumn last year show that 42 per cent. of foreign students from other EU countries who have come to Denmark less than a year before the start of their studies, Denmark leaves Denmark again within the first 2 years after the end of its education. After all, these are figures that confirm the concern that we in Denmark are really going to lift the educational obligation of other EU countries. On the basis of this concern, my predecessor, then Minister for Education and Research Ulla Tørnæs, decided in May to launch an analysis of the English-language vocational education and training programmes. The analysis focuses on vocational education and training, which has a high concentration of EU/EEA citizens. In the course of the analysis it has been found that many of the students in the vocational academy programmes choose to continue their studies with a so-called top-up degree programme. Therefore, we have chosen to extend the analysis to include the professional high schools, and we expect to complete the analysis in spring 2017 • that is, the spring we have just entered the day before yesterday. The analysis focuses on three important factors: firstly, we see the extent to which students from EU/EEA countries stay in Denmark after completing the course, just as we look at whether they enter employment on the Danish labour market. Secondly, we are examining whether students and teachers in English-language programmes have the right linguistic conditions for participating in teaching and teaching. Thirdly, we are, of course, willing to look further at whether further action can be taken to address the challenges we face with the pressure on the resilience of the SU system. I was just about to say the EU system, which could otherwise be addressed, but that must then be another debate. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303123559	Thank you, Minister. We move on to the rapporteur for the questions, Mr President. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303123615	While in 2013 we negotiated a new SU reform, a judgment was handed down at the European Court of Justice. The consequence of the judgment was, as was written in the 2013 SU Agreement, that EU and EEA citizens who enter Denmark with the main purpose of studying in contrast to previous practice and Danish perception are entitled to SU if they have the status of workers at the same time. The parties considered that the current practice in Denmark is that the student must, as a rule, be employed for 10-12 hours a week in order to obtain the status of worker and it is always on the basis of a concrete assessment. It was at that time absolutely crucial for the Danish People's Party that we got to grips with that issue in the context of the agreement. We predicted that this judgment would result in a massive increase in the number of young EU citizens who came here to obtain free education and support in the form of the SU. And we were right. The numbers speak their clear language. There was in 2012, the last year before the verdict, an expense of 19 million. DKK, which has now become an expected cost in 2017 of 500 million. kr. An increase from 19 million. kr. to 500 million. kr. In my view, there is a considerable amount and there is no indication that the increase will not continue if we do nothing. That is why we were also pleased that the 2013 agreement included a number of initiatives, and these initiatives, as stated in the agreement, are as follows: the parties note that the verdict entails additional costs for the SU and note that the government will incorporate the current estimate of 200 million. kr. after tax and backflow on the future financial laws. You mentioned 200 million. kr. is equal to the 420 million. kr. before tax and backflow, which was mentioned earlier today. The partners agree to follow developments, and the Ministry of Research, Innovation and Higher Education will present an annual progress report on the number of EU and EEA citizens receiving the SU by virtue of the status of workers and their costs, and the Minister will meet with the Conciliation Committee accordingly. Where developments differ significantly from those envisaged, the parties undertake, within the conciliation circle, to secure funding in the field of the SU and to implement appropriate safeguards initiatives. In this context, Denmark will work actively in any relevant European context to promote the conditions for maintaining the current Danish SU system. Ultimately, the parties commit themselves, if necessary, to reshaping the SU system. ▪ What does the agreement mean? This means that there is a limit to how much money the SU system must cost extra. And now that the limit has been reached, something needs to be done at several levels. The first and best solution in the view of the Danish People's Party is, of course, to tackle changing the rules in the EU so that we can decide for ourselves who we give free education and SU to. That is why, of course, what the government is going to do to change the rules of the European Union, as the original agreement also states. In recognition of the fact that, unfortunately, it may take a day or two or three before we get through with it, we must initiate protective initiatives which could be that education should take place in Danish if there is no work-based argument to do it differently. This is also the requirement for new training when they are to be approved under the accreditation law. It's not going very well, I'd say. I recently tried to look at a number of approved courses, and in fact I did not manage to find any particularly good arguments for the courses which were approved to be in English to be in English. When the minister in this Chamber had to argue that a master's degree in headaches for Danish doctors should be in English, one of the arguments was that there is English literature in the field. Well, when I studied engineering, much of the literature was in German and English, but the teaching could be done in Danish anyway. That was, of course, over 30 years ago. Other protection initiatives could be that you have to learn Danish if you are to take an education here. How many jobs are there in Denmark for non-Danish speakers with higher education? If you did, it would also mean that you would want Denmark. Finally, the agreement states that additional expenditure on the SU, in addition to the agreed framework, must be financed within the current SU framework, which means that if expenditure continues to increase, the SU must be cut to Danish students in order to finance the increasing expenditure on foreign students. I very much hope that we can avoid that, but that is actually what the agreement says. That is why, of course, I also believe that it is a matter of getting started, and that is why today's debate is also very, very important. Then I will conclude by presenting the following on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance, the Radical Left, the Socialist People's Party and the Conservatives: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the development of the SU expenditure on migrant workers in 2017 can be expected to exceed the spending framework agreed by a broad majority in the Danish Parliament in connection with the 2013 SU reform. Against this background, the Danish Parliament urges the government to actively follow up the SU reform agreement that Denmark will work actively in any relevant European context to promote the conditions for maintaining the current Danish SU system. It is not fair or responsible to solve a problem which concerns a small proportion of total SU expenditure by reducing the conditions for all Danish SU recipients. At the same time, the Folketing calls on the government to show responsibility and, in cooperation with the SU Association, to initiate appropriate and sustainable defence initiatives to ensure that the SU expenditure on migrant workers is kept within the agreed spending framework. The Danish Parliament also calls on the government to introduce protective initiatives in which foreigners do not come to Denmark solely for the benefit of the benefits. • V 50).
ParlaMint-DK_20170303124204	This is then part of the further debate. There are no brief comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's report to Mrs Mette Reissmann, the Social Democrat.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303124222	I shall begin by saying that I am also speaking on behalf of the SF. In Denmark we have a strong tradition of free and equal access to education. For many years it has brought prosperity and equality. Free and equal access to education is about children's opportunities in life not depending on the size of their parents' money, but on will and talent I could also mention diligence and here the SU plays a crucial role. Therefore, it was also pleasing when a broad majority in the Folketing in 2013 reached a settlement on the SU. The SU settlement was a good agreement that ensured that the student has a sound financial basis for giving the students the proper attention required. However, in relation to today's enquiry debate, the SU settlement contains a particularly relevant point, namely the follow-up of the conciliation on the European Court of Justice's February 2013 ruling, and the judgment means that EU citizens and EEA citizens travelling to Denmark to study have the right to receive SU if they acquire the status of migrant workers and in order to obtain the status of migrant worker, it requires at least 10-12 hours of work per week on the basis of a concrete assessment. The judgment changed the practice to date and the new practice was wisely upheld in the SU conciliation, where the parties behind it took account of exactly the additional costs incurred by the judgment. And, as expected, since 2013, we have seen the cost of migrant workers receiving SU increasing, and the figures indicate that there is a risk that spending in 2017 will exceed the framework agreed in the SU settlement. It takes social democracy very seriously and we believe that it should give reason to consider how to ensure that the level of expenditure remains within the spending framework. In the SU settlement, it has been agreed that appropriate safeguards for initiatives will be put in place if developments deviate from the essentials. It must be said here that it is obvious that the government takes responsibility and takes the initiative to bring the SU board together and discuss developments. On the part of the Social Democrats, we would be very happy to enter into a constructive dialogue on defence initiatives, which will ensure that development stays within the agreed level. Similarly, it is also to be expected that the government is actively working in any relevant European context to promote the conditions for maintaining the current Danish SU system, as has also been agreed in the SU settlement. Finally, it must be stressed that any type of SU tourism cannot be accepted in any way; deliberate, calculating use of the Danish SU system is not acceptable. To come to Denmark for the sake of benefits and not for the sake of studies cannot be accepted. Conversely, all foreign students from other EU countries should not become scapegoats either. It is quite clear, and it has also been taken as a basis, that there is a socio-economic benefit by keeping foreign students taking their education in Denmark for later employment. However, the question of foreign students should not only be borne in mind that expenditure remains within the scope of expenditure. As I said, this is a crucial issue, and it is one leg, but it should not be left alone, and so the other is actually also about how we keep foreign students studying in Denmark to subsequently stay and help to pay for the community over the tax ticket. There is good reason to consider how to work on precisely that policy. There is an undissolved potential here that can be realized. There is also no doubt that the business community is actually looking for students with different competences, especially in the field of science, and some of the foreign students are in the process of acquiring competences in precisely these areas for which there is a great demand. If we are to be better able to keep foreign students after the studies and get them to work for a few years, it is again important to stress here that there is an economic gain, but we need to get better at it. When today's debate is about the SU and the migrant workers, it is also appropriate that the government's announced SU proposals receive a few words on the way, because in the government's constitution, the Tripartite Government writes that an SU proposal will be presented on the basis of the previous 2025 plan. And with the 2025 plan's SU initiative, the ambition was to counter the development of the number of foreign SU recipients by making the SU system more robust, as it was called. As you know, this meant reducing SU grants by 20%. and abolish the sixth SU year. I am sure that we will have ample opportunity to discuss the government's SU reform when it sees the light of day, so I do not want to go into it here, but I would like to stress that the Social Democratic Party considers it deeply unreasonable that all SU beneficiaries should have reduced their SU in trying to solve a problem which concerns a small proportion of the total cost of SU. I also believe that most people can see that this is unfair and wrong, while at the same time it is right to question whether a deterioration will have an effect on the development of the number of SU recipients. Therefore, the SU degradation is not only unreasonable, they may also be unnecessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303124750	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303124753	Thank you. I would like to ask the rapporteur: what does the rapporteur really want to do about the problem, which is the fundamental problem here, so that it is the European Union that decides how much the cost of access to the SU for migrant workers should be? What will the rapporteur actually do about it? For the judgments given by the Court of Justice set very narrow limits on what protective measures can be taken. I think it is cold and sober to acknowledge that it will require amendments to at least two heavy acts, namely the regulation on the right of migrant workers to social security benefits, Regulation No. 883, and the residence directive, and I think there may well be more in that jungle. What will the rapporteur actually do about the problem that it is the European Union that controls expenditure in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20170303124845	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303124846	Sir. Finn Sørensen puts his finger on the sore spot, pointing out that it is the European Union that sets the framework for this. That is also what I addressed in my speech, so I would urge the government to start, in every possible context, to promote the conditions for us to maintain the current Danish SU system and it will have to be addressed in any context. After all, this is not a snapshot solution that we are out in, and we must neither deceive ourselves nor each other nor, by the way, those who are listening to this, that we can do it in no time, because it is a long, cool move. But where I think we should, in particular, sit together, is in relation to finding out what we can then within that framework, although they are narrow. What can we possibly take of defence initiatives? For I would like to stress once again that we find it unacceptable to use the Danish SU system, which can then be used by the government as a lever to weaken the overall SU system for Danish SU recipients.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303124956	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303124957	Thank you. Thank you for the sobering recognition of what the problem is here, and also for the announcement that it cannot be right that increasing expenditure in an area where we do not have the decision-making power here in the Danish Parliament, should lead to cuts and further cuts, I would add the SU system. So thank you for that. Nevertheless, I think that the rapporteur went a little further than the hot porridge, that is to say, understood in this way: what are the demands we have to make on the European Union? After all, something needs to be changed in the directives and regulations that govern this, and what is it that the rapporteur would like to address there and try to get the government to travel to the European Union?
ParlaMint-DK_20170303125035	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303125036	First of all, I would also like to say that the Social Democratic Party is a member of the Socialist Group. We ourselves are in the agreement which is the basis for this, as the proposers say and Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl also said in his speech that it is important to stress that we need to find the funds within the agreed financial framework, and I am very much in favour of that. That is why we are calling on the government: let us now get together and find out. With regard to what needs to be specifically requested in the European Union in order to be able to change these things in the long run, I will just now. leave it to the government to call for it. But there is no doubt that we cannot wait. We can't wait, and that's why we're gonna have to find...
ParlaMint-DK_20170303125122	Thank you. And then it's sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303125125	Thank you. Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I would like to turn a little against defence initiatives because I hear the rapporteur say that the Socialists would like to walk on two legs. On the one hand, we need to limit this, and on the other hand we need to have if not more to come, so more to stay, I hear a little that the possibility is. And then I think: what are the defence initiatives that the Socialists think we could put in place? Could it be to say that the training was to take place in Danish? Could it be to say that those who come here must learn Danish in order to take this education, because one can say that if they are subsequently to be able to take part in the Danish labour market, perhaps it is not the worst competence to have, that is to say, to be able to do something Danish? So is this the type of defence initiatives to which Mrs Mette Reissmann refers, or what are some of the Socialists thinking about?
ParlaMint-DK_20170303125219	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303125220	I'm glad to hear that Mr. Knox... Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl noticed the two legs, for one is among other things. the improvement of the policy of retention. There is no doubt that if we can get the young people to stay here afterwards and contribute to the community over the tax ticket, then that is a clear advantage. It is also an advantage for the Danish business community, which is currently crying out bottlenecks in various places in the production apparatus. And just as many of the foreign students acquire skills that allow them to go in and meet the demand that is. I think that is just as important to hold onto. The second leg is: how are we going to make defence initiatives at all? I would like to stress that the Social Democratic Party is not in favour of teaching only in Danish on long-term courses or at our educational institutions at all. It would be strange if you came here to study English, and then it would be in Danish just to say it or other language subjects. I was educated at CBS myself, where half of my study books were written in English, and yet the programme was in Danish. I guess I'm about the age of the proposer. That is why I do not think there is any problem with it at all. But we could either make stop tests in English to ensure that there was a high enough English level, so that we at least secured it, and at the same time also examine the possibility that one could follow Danish teaching alongside one's study.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303125339	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303125340	Thank you. I can now hear Mrs Mette Reissmann saying that there is no doubt that it would be advantageous for foreign students to stay here and work. At the same time, I have seen some completely new figures which say that we have quite a high level of unemployment and that it is quite a long time before people with higher education come out and get a job. So you can say that if foreign students come here, take an education and take the job from the Danish students, then I would then think that the purpose and benefits had actually disappeared. Am I right?
ParlaMint-DK_20170303125417	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303125418	I think that Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl here should distinguish between what kind of education we are talking about. Firstly, it is very easy to find out what kind of education the foreign students are in, and also to look at where the demand is. There is a predominance of scientific education in the degree programmes on which they are based. That's one thing. Secondly, I would like to say that the business community is precisely asking for training. And many of the foreign students that I have been fortunate enough to meet have chosen Denmark because Denmark is, as it is, with the values that we are actually building on, and not because of our SU system, and they are voluntarily following Danish education next to their studies. They're gonna be a win.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303125501	Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303125504	In his rapporteur's speech, the rapporteur said that it is not right for the many to pay for the few. I just want to ask whether this is such a more general social democratic principle that we are now about to expect to see the Socialists fighting for.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303125521	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303125522	No.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303125525	Then it's mr. Bruno Jerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303125529	I would like to start by thanking the rapporteur for admitting that there are problems in finding the money in other ways than by going in and doing it in this way. It is, of course, both in the agreement with the SU circle, and it is also in the proposal for adoption that the Social Democratic Party co-sponsors to find them within the system. Is there not a contradiction between the rapporteur's argument that it should not lead to deterioration, and the automatic nature of both the proposal for adoption and the S.U. circle will lead to deterioration in the system, because that money must be found within the system, as they say?
ParlaMint-DK_20170303125623	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303125624	First of all, I would like to arrest the floor, which I think has a negative ring to it. In fact, I am just starting from the facts and telling you about a judgment that is not so much to admit about, because it is the one that sets the framework, and that is the way it is. There is no admission on my part. The second is whether there is a contradiction between the two. I don't think so at all. On the contrary, I think it is very well linked. We have always challenged it when the government claimed it was because the resilience of the SU system was under pressure, because we had all these many foreign students who came up here and got our SU, and therefore we had to immediately reduce it for all the others. We do not agree on this. I think I have also mentioned this in a lot of other contexts. However, I fully acknowledge the 2013 text of the agreement and, by the way, I am also one hundred per cent in the text adopted by Mr Seligman. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl read out that we must find a solution. I've committed myself to that. Whatever it's gonna be, we're gonna have to watch. I've got to see mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl and, incidentally, also in connection with the two protection initiatives there may be several said that it should remain within the scope of EU law.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303125731	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303125732	A solution must be found, says Mrs Mette Reissmann. But the solution lies straight ahead, and it means a deterioration in the SU.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303125743	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303125743-2	I find it interesting that Enhedslisten can only point to one solution, and that is to weaken the SU. I do not agree with Enhedslisten in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303125753	Then it's Mrs. Marlene Harpsoe.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303125754	I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the Social Democratic Party has such a ceiling on how much you will accept that the cost of the SU for migrant workers must be maximum.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303125812	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303125817	I think that comes from the agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303125820	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303125821	So this 420 million. kr. is the maximum cost. Does the Social Democratic Party consider this to be a reasonable level? Is that the level, and so nothing else, or do you want to go further down or higher up in expenditure?
ParlaMint-DK_20170303125834	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303125839	Well, it's an arbitrary question. I would say that it depends on how it is distributed. But so far, there is an amount that is specifically provided for in the agreement, and we are relying on that as the framework that is being worked out when we are going to find solutions to this challenge that we are facing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303125851	We thank Mrs Mette Reissmann and move on to Mr Seligman's report. Jakob Engel-Schmidt as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303125903	Thank you for the floor. Last Friday we also had the pleasure of being together for a joint debate here, and this is becoming a very cozy tradition in the Education and Research Committee. Fortunately, the committee is made up of capacities in the field of education. Some have work experience, others have multi-level training, so I actually have a legitimate expectation that in this Chamber there is the necessary amount of creativity to find the necessary protection solutions so that we can secure a good SU system and also ensure that it is the right students we attract. When I say that, it is because skilled foreign students who come to Denmark and get an education like that in English are a huge advantage for our knowledge society. They help generate revenue for the Treasury, they ensure growth and thus hold hands under the welfare society that we so much want to develop. The problem arises and here I very much agree with the Danish People's Party when foreign students come to Denmark only because we have the world's most generous education system, where they take an often very short higher education, probably at a business academy, and get a questionable learning result out of it. And as soon as the training is over, they will return home to the country from which they came, without having contributed or used the training for anything particularly sensible. We have to stop that. We had the debate in conciliation six months ago. The then Minister, with the backing of the Conciliation Committee, put forward a number of defence initiatives. We can now see that we are approaching the limit set by the conciliation circle, and that is why we need to look at further safeguards initiatives. It is also against this background that we can support the proposal for adoption which Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl has today presented and read on behalf of a very broad majority in the Folketing. I would say, and now I am trying to anticipate the course of events, that if anyone could ask the Left what protective initiatives we could imagine, it would be necessary first to draw up an overview which clearly shows and documents which institutions it is and where it is going, i.e. where there is a large take-up of foreign students and in which subjects. Mrs Mette Reissmann had an excellent point in saying that foreign students who study science and acquire knowledge, which is already in short supply, are a huge gain for our society. I am not sure that anything similar can be said for all areas, and that analysis needs to be specific. Once we have it, we can consider several things. We can consider whether the admission requirement in the given courses is high enough. Here we must involve the Danish Accreditation Institution. We can consider whether the protective initiatives that can be set can include stop tests along the way, a test of the language level and a requirement to follow Danish teaching, what the vast majority of students who study science programmes and want to be in Denmark actually do. In addition to that, it can also be considered whether you can taximeter system to secure the necessary match. After all, this is a discussion that we will have later this year. But at the same time you can involve it and thus create a more complete and durable solution. Therefore, in order to anticipate the debate now, reference could be made to the Enhedslisten's representatives in the Parliamentary Chamber, arguing that everything does not look as bad as some would like to do. After all, the Enhedslisten's rapporteur puts the finger on the facts by saying that there is nothing in terms of amounts to come for. It is the case that if you are a student in this country and come from abroad and have between 8 and 12 hours of work, you are a migrant worker and must have SU. That's the way it is. And as the education is free and the SU is the world's highest, it is an attractive package. I think most people can understand that. But it must also be the case that our society only finances education that is relevant to society. Otherwise, it is a waste of society's resources, and I believe that the defence initiatives I mentioned earlier can help to ensure the resilience of the SU system in order to now use a quite popular word. Moreover, it can also help to ensure that the funds we use for the SU are used properly. Now I came a little far away from the speech paper, but nevertheless I believe that what has been said so far reflects both the attitude of the government and the focus of the conciliation circle on the subject. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303130325	Thank you. There are brief comments. First, Mrs Mette Reissmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303130330	Thank you for a good and very passionate speech from the rapporteur. You know, I like to discuss these things with Mr. Knox. Jakob Engel-Schmidt, but I still have to ask one question. It is based on the fact that, in a very broad circle, we have in fact just agreed on a text for a proposal for adoption, in which we have, among other things, agreed. stresses that it is not reasonable to affect all Danish SU recipients in relation to the fact that there is a situation with a small share of the total SU recipients. Then I would like to hear whether the rapporteur can confirm that when the government now presents its future SU proposal for a new reform, the aim will no longer be to make the SU system more robust in relation to a problem of foreign students.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303130418	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303130421	I think that the two things should naturally be separated. I believe that we have a problem that should be dealt with in relation to the SU for foreign students, as Mrs Mette Reissmann rightly points out. I also believe that it is possible to discuss whether the Danish SU system is currently contributing, among other things. • social mobility. I recently had a longer thete-a-tee with Mrs Mette Reissmann's colleague Mr. Mattias Tesfaye, who actually said quite thought-provoking: It is actually amazing that since the 1970s the Left of the Danish Parliament has cast votes on an education system that is increasingly spending money on the children of academics, while those who take the shortest courses come from working homes and get less and less financially in relation to the education system freely told. Now we should not get into a longer debate on that account. It is the case that the President of my party, the Prime Minister of the country, has said that we will not be putting forward any more on the SU front in relation to reforms in at least 2017. So, with patience in mind, I do not want to re-issue, but promise Mrs Mette Reissmann that by the end of the year, we may be back on the line with new reform ideas on that account.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303130523	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303130527	Thank you. I note with satisfaction that Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt certainly sees that the two problems must be separated and that we are dealing with what concerns the SU and migrant workers in this way, as well as, I hope, in a path where we are gathering together and discussing these defence initiatives. And then there is the forthcoming SU reform initiative from the government, which will once see the light of day, perhaps at the end of this year, possibly at the beginning of next year. But these two things have nothing to do with each other. The reason for my question was just as much that in particular the Prime Minister, but also other members of the Left, said that it was especially due to the very large number of foreign EU citizens coming to read and that it was a ticking bomb under our SU system. That is just what I wanted the rapporteur to confirm, i.e. that the two things have nothing to do with each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303130616	We're gonna get an answer to that now. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303130619	I can hurry into action to use a military term to identify the words spoken as belonging to former Minister Ulla Tørnæs, and it is not a secret that I have not repeated them. I believe that the two things must be separated and I think it makes sense to consider spending some more money on quality instead of transfers to students. Mrs Mette Reissmann and I will hardly agree on that. On the other hand, I can identify from here in the Chamber a former minister in this area, a current minister, a teacher, also in work as a teacher on television, a researcher, a person who has worked with it for many years, and I myself have been head of training at a major educational establishment. There should be enough skills in the Chamber to come up with more than two cold defence initiatives. So I look forward to a little joint group work and, incidentally, also that creativity begins to flourish and germinate a little more than has been the case so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303130704	Thank you. It is now continuing with Mr. Finn Sørensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303130712	Thank you. Does the rapporteur think that the many defence initiatives which the rapporteur was trying to put into practice could reduce the costs of the approx. 500 million kr., it looks to be now, and to the level it had before? That must surely be the objective, given that these were the rules we had interpreted and decided within the framework. Does the rapporteur really think they can do that? And if you can succeed, why not just use them from the start? Because then we wouldn't have gotten into this situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303130742	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303130745	Thank you for the question, sir. Finn Sørensen. I have once been very close to flunking a mathematics exam in the second degree polynomial, in order not to be able to indicate the starting point of the calculation. And for obvious reasons, I cannot answer Mr. Finn Sørensen on what was before Mr. Sørensen... Finn Sørensen does not define before.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303130759	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303130804	Before the Court's ruling, of course. And then it's 500 million. kr., and I actually said that in my question. That's what I said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303130812	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303130816	Well, it is not to give such a kind of political obstruction to the otherwise excellent rapporteur of the Enhedslisten. I'm sorry if my inner ear didn't catch the opinion of the question. No, of course it would be totally unrealistic to go from a cost of about 0.5 billion. kr. ed 0 kr., and it would not be advantageous either. So, some of the best students who do special jobs have long higher education from here and are not necessarily born with Danish passports, but they work at Novo, they work at Grundfos, they work in Mærsk, they work in small entrepreneurial companies. We want these people, and we also want to give them the SU, we just don't want to spend the same money sending people home to Romania once they have received our social transfer.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303130849	Then it's mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303130853	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt about what action the Left and the Government intend to take in relation to meeting what is in the agreement to work actively in any European context to promote the prerequisite for maintaining the current Danish SU system. There must be some ideas and some ideas that we can get presented today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303130917	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303130920	As Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl is familiar with my imagination both lively and quite, I think, well developed when it comes to education. But I sense that the question should actually have been put to my good colleague, Mr President. Søren Pind, Minister. I do not travel in the higher air layers in Brussels, I actually get there quite rarely. However, I think that the proposals for defence initiatives that I mentioned earlier could at least be a sensible opportunity to slow down development and perhaps also to roll back some of it until a European solution is found. My position is clear, in this respect I am probably a little more sceptical than most. I do not believe that the European Union is a social union. I believe that the European Union is a union of cooperation, trade and freedom. And I was quite pleased with Chancellor Merkel's statement, and the rapporteur must apologise if I do not set the exact date on it, but I think it is well over eight months since Chancellor Merkel said that one was willing to look at that was when the situation was before Brexit's what reforms could be made in the social and transfer area that could ensure more fair treatment and payment of transfers.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303131021	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303131030	I would like to return to the question that the rapporteur was given a moment ago, when it was answered that it is unrealistic to get back to the zero point. Well, if we go back to 2012, we had a situation where we thought we had an OK. balance, in relation to how to get here to Denmark and get to read for an education here. There we had spending in this area of 19 million. kr., and now it looks like we're gonna have a cost of 0.5 billion. kr. forward. Why is it not aimed at getting back to the situation we had in 2012 and saying that, in that way, there was an excellent balance? Then we have 500 million. kr. to use for something else good.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303131105	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303131108	So, I'm taking the philosophical and practical approach to this, that SU for foreign students is well spent, as soon as they come back in a mass, that is, at the moment the investment gives a positive development in economic, cyclical and labour supply terms. When that is not the case, it is not a good investment. That is precisely why I began my rapporteur's speech by actually calling for and pointing out that we need a more detailed analysis so that we can have a concrete discussion of the defence initiatives that will ensure that situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303131144	Sir. Bruno Jerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303131148	The rapporteur mentioned several times that foreign students come here and receive SU. Is the rapporteur aware that this is, of course, a truth which should be understood as meaning that we are talking about the European Union and the EEA? For those who come from outside the EU area, some quite different rules apply. There is a 2-year rule, so you have to have been here for two years with full-time employment, so that you can be considered for example. to obtain SU or social benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303131222	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303131228	Yes, I am very familiar with the legislation and I am referring to articles and information on DR from about 8 months ago, where it was documented that a great many of the people who came from EEA countries and got SU and left the country again came from Romania, Bulgaria and elsewhere. It is from this that the increase in short-term higher education is very high, and it is also from this that the proportion of people who use their education in Denmark is very low.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303131248	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303131251	Does the rapporteur think that it would be reasonable if the same rules were applied within the European Union as apply to other countries, i.e. a two-year rule for two years of full-time work in order to be eligible?
ParlaMint-DK_20170303131306	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303131309	I do not know whether such mental Friday fatigue is about to turn up, but I am simply not in a position to quickly understand the consequences of the otherwise very advanced proposal from the Enhedslisten. I am willing to discuss it on the platform again and afterwards, but I simply cannot understand what that will mean. At first, it's gonna be a no.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303131327	Mrs. Marlene Harpsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303131331	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Some of the things I would just like to follow up on in the wake of my colleague Mr Seligman. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl's question is this: the rapporteur of the Left says that it is a great gain for the Danish society • that is at least what I hear when some migrant workers, i.e. some EU citizens, come to Denmark and take some training. We then have a great deal of expenditure on them. It is expected that some 500 million will be spent. kr. Just this year on the cost of it. So how does the Left view this whole thing, that there are some expenses right now, and it's going to escalate like crazy? So it is the case that the Left wants there to be no restriction in the agreement where it is said 420 million. kr.? So the Left would rather that it was simply so completely shot to the corner and not there?
ParlaMint-DK_20170303131430	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303131432	No. The answer is no. If the Left saw it, we would probably have done something about it in the negotiations or used our right of initiative as a governing party. The answer is no. And I am not really sure what the rapporteur is trying to insinuate. At the same time, however, it might also be that the rapporteur would take the trouble to ask the Minister a question. I would like to draw inspiration: will the Minister explain the overall revenue gain on the basis of the job and employment effect of the SU for foreign students? It could be that it could inform the Folketing whether it is a good investment and, on that basis, give rise to a more qualified discussion here in Parliament. If the rapporteur does not ask the question, we will have it on tape, and I will ask it myself afterwards. The challenge is, of course, that you can go in and measure the CPR register afterwards and see if people are in work or not in work. The alkule becomes interesting, the moment we see it and it is probably my theory that skilled foreign students who occupy engineering positions in the pharmaceutical industry, wind turbine industry and elsewhere are a huge gain. The students who then choose to go home are a huge loss. Overall, the revenue gain is hopefully positive. We'll see about that. I am surprised, however, that Mrs Marlene Harpsøe has not found the opportunity to ask the question before she causes over, I think, perhaps less relevant parts of the discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303131541	Then it's Mrs. Marlene Harpsoe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303131545	I say thank you with a smile on your lip. Oh, my God. Jakob Engel-Schmidt just talks and talks without really dealing with what is at the heart of the matter. We can just hear in the Danish People's Party that you are delighted that migrant workers come to Denmark to take some courses, and that means some expenses for SU. You're just happy about that. What we then say in the Danish People's Party is: Will the Left then completely abolish the ceiling of 420 million? kr., to which the conciliation circle has committed itself today, since you are so happy about it? We would just like a clear answer, but instead of talking and talking the rapporteur of the Left. It would just be nice to have clear answers.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303131621	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303131625	I love Mrs. Marlene Harpsøe very much. We've had some really good conversations. And I am actually a little sad that my eight consecutive 'no's' were translated into: instead of the Left rapporteur just talking. I said no, we do not want to abolish the ceiling. I said no, no and no. It was then eight in total. We believe that the agreement we have on the 420 million ceiling. kr., is reasonable. We would like the amount to be lower and the effect to be higher. I mean, as an old merchant, and that's what you are when you're trained at CBS. I'd rather spend the least money possible to get the maximum amount of money out of the investment. However, I think I have quite clearly come up with examples of defence initiatives, questions, analysis tools, and, incidentally, I have also called on the rapporteurs to stop now (First Vice-President You will, yes! ) to come up with any sensible solutions that may be found.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303131706	Then we thank the rapporteur and move on to the next rapporteur, who is Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303131722	Thank you to the Danish People's Party for calling this question, which has also given rise to a lively and actually very interesting and important debate. After all, this concerns an absolutely fundamental issue, a conflict that is constantly smouldering, namely the conflict between the Danish tax-financed welfare system on the one hand and the EU rules on the free movement of workers on the other. After all, the reason why we are discussing this today is simply because the European Court of Justice has interfered with the question of who should have access to the Danish SU. Of course, it is untenable in itself that the European Court of Justice has the power to do so. But first let me make it clear with seven-inch nails that especially to many of the young people who are listening to us that in the Enhedslisten we think it is very good that foreigners come to the country to study, no matter where they come from, and whether they can speak Danish or not from the start. They can learn something from us, we can learn something from them, and we must then take it as a compliment to the Danish education system that they want to be a part of it. But that doesn't mean that we have to automatically pay SU to all of them. Our basic view is that each country must take care of its students. There may then be situations where foreign students have a firmer connection with Denmark, which makes it reasonable that we also pay their SU, but that is something that the Danish Parliament must decide. This should not be decided in the European Union or anywhere else. At the same time, we see that the interpretation made by the Court of Justice challenges the Danish tax-financed welfare system. The Court's ruling means that only you have 10-12 hours of leisure work per week, you can obtain the status of migrant worker and thus obtain the right to Danish welfare benefits, including SU on an equal footing with the resident. The Court also includes the right to bring Danish SU to other EU and EEA countries. However, a firmer attachment is required. The judgment has resulted in the number of migrant workers from these countries receiving the SU having increased from approx. 500 to approx. 5,500 in full-time persons. It is not sustainable, and so, I think, everyone agrees on that, at least most people agree on it. If Parliament itself had to decide, we probably would not have adopted a rule that had the consequences. Then we would probably have maintained what the Danish Parliament unanimously adopted in 2002 and which still applies to foreign students from third countries, namely a two-year work requirement, two years' work with a minimum of 30 hours a week, and that is what is called full-time work. That discrimination is not sustainable. Nor is it sustainable if the growth of migrant workers receiving SU leads to further cuts in the Danish SU system, which is already badly affected by the recent conciliation which the conciliation parties entered into, saving 2.2 billion. kr. There are indications that, in this case too, EU rules can be used for social dumping. I am thinking of TV 2's disclosure in May 2016, when three foreign students appeared. One of them told me how the employer had pushed her. I'll help you get the SU, but the salary I'm transferring to your bank account, I want it back. TV 2's own measurement showed that 38 per cent. of the foreign students knew about this problem. We simply need to look into this. What is the scope, how do we increase control over the kind of cheating companies and employers who are only trying to cheat? After all, the fundamental problem is that the EU is interfering in who should have the right to Danish welfare benefits. A good solution to that was to demand a Danish exception in this area from EU rules. Unfortunately, we have to admit that we cannot get a majority in favour of this, so we are going to propose something less far-reaching, in the hope that it might win a majority. The reason for the problem is, of course, the Court's interpretation of the concept of migrant worker. The Court of Justice has interpreted it as meaning that it is possible to obtain status and thus access to the Danish SU with these few hours of leisure work, and this is unsustainable. The government simply has to address this to the European Union, and there is a very good opportunity for this right now, when it comes to negotiating a revision of the regulation, No. 883, which regulates the access of migrant workers to Danish welfare benefits. I would therefore like to read out the following: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that EU rules on access to the SU of migrant workers have led to an unsustainable increase in the number of SU beneficiaries from EU/EEA countries. The Folketing rejects that the increased expenditure should be financed by reducing the SU system or the number of courses. The Danish Parliament notes that some employers have abused the rules and exploited foreign students as underpaid labour. Parliament calls on the government to undertake a study of the scale and to put forward proposals on how to strengthen control of companies in this field. The Danish Parliament notes that a major cause of the problems is unclear and inadequate rules on the right of migrant workers to welfare benefits. Parliament therefore invites the government to submit proposals to clarify this for discussion in the Folketing with a view to raising the issue in the EU.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303132246	Thank you. This is now part of the further debate. But there will not be much of it, because there are no brief comments. So we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303132301	Already when a settlement was reached on State training aid in 2013, there was a view that the SU scheme for migrant workers might be more expensive than expected. That is why safeguards were established. In May 2016, it was so necessary to convene the conciliation circle because the economic limits that triggered the rules had been reached and something had to be done. What was then agreed in the conciliation circle was to undertake a closer study of the English-language vocational academy courses. However, as far as the study is concerned now, there is some indication that professional bachelor training should also be included, because as we heard the Minister explaining, there are many who move on to the so-called top-up courses. So the matter has been dragged on a bit, but during spring 2017, that is to say now, we can expect results from the extended study. After all, all the conciliation parties in 2013 agreed that there should be some kind of limit on the payment of the SU to migrant workers, but at the same time also that the EU rules governing State education aid should be respected. And this has been examined by the predecessor of the present minister at up to several meetings of the conciliation circle, what is expected to be of room for manoeuvre there. It's quite complicated. That is why I think the best thing we can do right now is at least wait for the result of this extended analysis. Because there was a certain fear that there was some kind of SU speculation, and I think it is good that we get such a little more solid ground under our feet there. It should be ready soon, and when it is ready, the conciliation circle can be called for further discussion very quickly. So that is how procedurally what needs to be done. In addition, however, there is only one thing to say that we support the adoption by the Danish People's Party which has been read out. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303132532	There is a brief comment from Mrs Mette Reissmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303132537	Thank you. I'm gonna ask sir. Mr Dahl, the same question I asked Mr Dahl. Jakob Engel-Schmidt: Now that we agree on this text of adoption, which states that it is not fair or responsible to solve a problem which concerns a small proportion of the total SU expenditure, by reducing the conditions for all Danish SU recipients, will the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance confirm that when the government presents a proposal for SU reform, the aim will no longer be to make the SU system more robust in relation to a problem relating to the foreign SU recipients?
ParlaMint-DK_20170303132611	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303132615	The play that may come has not been made yet, and it will not come in 2017, but only in 2018, so I do not know exactly how it will be designed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303132629	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303132632	I recognise that there is a long time left for, and in the political world such a time horizon is very, very far off in the future. Nevertheless, today, at least, we have a proposal for adoption which lies here, where the Liberal Alliance backs up, which I think is very good, so Mr President. Henrik Dahl has also had some thoughts about whether this is something that will be worked out by the Liberal Alliance as a governing party, in other words at least to ensure that the upcoming proposal will not contain confusion like what we have seen in the past from the government, so that we separate things so that the SU system no longer has to be made robust in relation to precisely this specific problem of foreign SU recipients.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303132711	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303132714	I have simply not given any thought to how exactly this proposal should be formulated. I think there is a whole range of issues that we need to look at when we look at the SU, because there is little research into how the SU system works at all, but there is something that suggests in the Rockwool Foundation that it does not even help break social mobility. So there is a whole lot of reflection we need to have up and then we have to look at how we can organise the system.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303132744	Then it's mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303132750	Thank you. I would like to hear the rapporteur's opinion on what the objective is in this. After all, we agree that we have a problem and it came back on the basis of a verdict back in 2013, and I also agree that it is complicated to make protection initiatives • what can we get through with, and what can be done, etc.? However, does the rapporteur agree with me that the objective must of course be to come back to a situation similar to that in 2012, when we in Denmark decided more ourselves, what framework and conditions and such things we set out for someone to come here and take an education and get the Danish SU? So can we set it as a target for the work we are now embarking on?
ParlaMint-DK_20170303132835	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303132838	What exactly is to be the objective, I have, in fact, come into a bit of doubt myself. I agree, of course, that it is untenable when, what should we say, there is a covert approach to something that might remind us of a social union. We agree on that. But I have been made aware that Danish companies have very major recruitment problems in science and in some of the technical subjects, and it is only in my considerations that they say: How far do we have to go back to the situation that was in 2013? Because it's a problem if you can't get the labour force.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303132922	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303132926	I can certainly acknowledge that. But I think that if we had the situation we had back in 2012, we would have an opportunity ourselves to invite and open up and say: there are about to be some areas here where we would like some to come. So if we could create a situation where we defined it more ourselves, would it not be worth striving for?
ParlaMint-DK_20170303132947	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303132950	Yes, we agree on that, in other words, on the basis that the European Union should not be a social union. So, yes, we can agree on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303132958	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur I see in the Chamber is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303133010	Thank you. In the Radical Left, we are very pleased that Danish programmes have been opened to foreign students, both from the EU and outside, and we are even excited that Danish students have the opportunity to go to other countries and take part of their education there. We regard this as a huge advantage for Denmark. This makes the programmes better, it gives the students more perspectives and new ideas, and that is also the feedback from both the teachers and the students. And from business. It's about to exchange a lot of students. Therefore, in the Radical Left, we were generally provoked by the fact that the government blamed the foreign students when they, as the V government alone, presented proposals to cut the SU significantly for all students. It was probably also intended that the Radical Left should be provoked, but it was uncool, not to us, okay, we can do a lot, no, to the students. Foreign students, who are in Denmark as migrant workers, do both study jobs and their full-time studies, because if they do not attend their studies, they are, as you know, poured out from their studies. We have quite a tough demand for this. So turning foreign students into scapegoats doesn't solve any problems. It only digs ditches that nobody benefits from, so I was very pleased that the rapporteur of the Left also distanced himself from the interpretation in his own party. We are then in the Radical Left, as you know, also an economically responsible party, and in 2013, while my party leader was a minister, we made a broad-based agreement in the Folketing, so that we have an overview of and manage the costs of SU, also for foreign students. Of course we have to have that. If there are specific problems in some places, I assume that the Minister will specifically address them and not turn everyone into scapegoats. I assume that the analysis which the Minister is about to give can be explained. Once we have it, we can also look at how to solve any future challenges with regard to the 2013 agreement and with regard to the level of expenditure. That's the deal we have. That is what we have negotiated ourselves, and we are very pleased with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303133328	There is a brief comment on Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303133333	Thank you. I am glad that the Radical Left recognises the agreement we made in 2013 and, of course, they do. In this context, however, I would like to ask: if we did not have the agreement where this ceiling for the SU was set, where would the limit be according to the rapporteur? Well, is that a much higher limit? Should we remove it or should we have a lower limit? Of course, as a financially responsible party, it is important to have something to control. So is the limit set the right one?
ParlaMint-DK_20170303133406	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303133411	I believe that this is an excellent line we have set, and we have come up with it after both extensive discussions and on the basis of knowledge. But the important thing for me and for the Radical Left is that foreign students and the internationalisation of our degree programmes are a huge gain for Denmark. It is a gain that Danish students can go out and take part of or their entire education in other countries, and this is something that we have put a great deal of emphasis on throughout our membership period in the EU and which is evolving and which offers new opportunities in a world where many jobs move across borders and where many workers move across borders, including Danes. It offers opportunities, and we must be able to seize them, and we can best do so when we are also good at exchanging students. It goes both ways, of course, namely to be able to send Danish students out and receive students. So you have to be able to look at that together.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303133519	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303133524	I fully agree that we should exchange students. But I don't think that has much to do with this problem. But I am glad that Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen recognises this limit which is now in the agreement. Then I would like to hear what defence initiatives the Radical Left is thinking we could put in place to bring down the level of that border. Because we can see that the limit is being exceeded this year. At least that's all there is to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303133547	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303133550	I don't really need to read that out here. I think we can discuss this much better when we have the analysis that the Minister or his predecessor has just put in place, so that we can see whether there are any specific problems that we need to address. But since they are not yet available, it is a bit like catching the air in such a way as to throw around with what else you could do. I can say with certainty that the Radical Left believes that one of the worst places we could put in was to make language rules at Danish universities.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303133624	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303133626	Thank you. The Unity List and the Radical Left agree. I fully agree with the rapporteur's statement that it is good for foreign students to come here to study at Danish universities, just as it is good for Danish students to go abroad. And we also agree that this is a huge gain. It can be hard to make up in crowns and ears, but it's a huge win. But that's just not what we're discussing here. We are discussing the extent to which we should pay the SU to them. That's what this is all about. And I have some doubts about what the rapporteur really thinks. Let me ask you this: does the rapporteur have any ambition whatsoever to look at the EU rules and does the rapporteur have an ambition to reduce the current expenditure from the 500 million? kr. And to what, how far down does it have to go? And how far will the rapporteur go in terms of saving in other areas of the SU system?
ParlaMint-DK_20170303133725	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303133728	I and the Radical Left have no ambition to reduce expenditure beyond the defence agreement we have made, because it is related to me and to the Radical Left that it is a gain that foreign students come here. When they come here and receive SU, they contribute partly to the Danish labour market, because this is the prerequisite for their being able to receive SU and they carry out full-time training with the requirements that apply to them. We consider these demands to be comprehensive. I would actually rather make an even greater effort to recruit some of these students that we need right now in Danish workplaces. In fact, they are often in many of the studies that the Socialist rapporteur also presented to us, which we actually find difficult to get enough candidates on the basis of. So right now I think we should consider it a great advantage that there are also foreign students coming out with these programmes and where there are companies calling for their labour. It then requires that we make an effort to keep them longer.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303133840	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303133843	Thank you. How, then, will the rapporteur avoid saving in important areas of the SU system? And am I to understand that the rapporteur is actually very pleased with the 2013 ruling of the Court of Justice, despite the fact that it has overruled the Danish Parliament and our ability to regulate this issue ourselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20170303133906	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303133908	No, it was difficult to decide. It is sometimes because it is precisely rights that apply across borders and that also means that Danish students have rights when they come to other EU countries. That is what matters to me, and I also assume that it is for the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, namely that rights are some of those that also apply when you have common rules • when you have common rules • but that is not something I wanted, or Radical Left wanted. What we want is in the agreement we made in 2013 and we must, within that agreement, responsibly find out how we finance if we exceed the amounts agreed on in that agreement. I also think it is quite clear that the Radical Left does not want to cut the SU.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303134008	Thank you to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposed amendments will take place on Tuesday 14 March 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20170303134032	The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 14 March 2017, at 6 pm. [A complex combination of hydrocarbons obtained from the distillation of crude oil from the distillation of crude oil. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule which will also appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
