ParlaMint-DK_20170602120032	The meeting is open. The agenda for this sitting has been distributed to Members of the House.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602120040	There is only one item on the agenda and the matter included in this item on the agenda can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602120048	This means that we must vote on the consent of the House to deal with the item on the agenda. A three-quarters majority of those present are also required for consent to be given. Are we ready to vote? We are now, and the vote will then be taken on the agreement of the Things to deal with this point. We shall conclude the vote. In favour of 81 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), against 24 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. That is precisely enough to make up a three-quarters majority, so that the agreement of the House is given, and so the only item on today's agenda can be dealt with.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602120150	We will just breathe for a moment, so there will also be quiet when the rapporteur has the floor. Perhaps those who do not attend the meeting can move to the side or to other activities in a calm and orderly manner? That's fine. Thank you for your help. Then the negotiations are open and we give the floor to Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democrat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602120234	Several Danish cities are increasingly suffering from homeless foreigners who are openly begging on streets and straits or staying illegally in parks and green areas. This is a sad development which is becoming increasingly difficult to defend against our own citizens. It is difficult to defend that church staff in Copenhagen are to be vaccinated against hepatitis because they have to start every morning cleaning up after overnight Roma who use the street as a toilet. It is difficult to defend that Danish homeless people are being charged money by foreign homeless people to spend the night on the streets of Copenhagen, for example. It is difficult to defend that ever more Copenhageners have to live with the genes of real Roma camps in the middle of our capital. A new effort is needed to ensure the security of cities and to stop the influx of people coming to Denmark without having a place to live and work. The aim of the proposal here is to strengthen action against foreign visitors who camp in public places and create insecurity, including stronger action against insecurity-building begging. I should like to start by saying that this is a proposal that we welcome and which we see as a part of a lot. The proposal punishes those who are guilty of insecurity-building betting with up to 6 months in prison • this without prior warning from the police • when the begging has taken place in pedestrian streets, at stations or in public transport. It is also proposed that the fact that the begging takes place in one of the places mentioned should be aggravated and, in the first case, the penalty should therefore be set as a starting point for unconditional imprisonment for 14 days. As I said, we are in favour of the proposal. And in relation to what we have previously discussed in the press, it is crucial for us in the S that it is clear that this is a reinforced effort against foreign visitors who camp in public places and create insecurity, because it is not the House Forbi salesman or the old tramp that we are going to hit with the proposal here. We also have a number of questions on the proposal. Will the law apply in front of supermarkets where begging often occurs? Will expulsion be possible after the time of the sentence? And will the convicted have the opportunity to make money while serving their sentence in prison? It would be useful to have a debate on the committee procedure. In addition, we in the Social Democratic Party do not believe that the proposal is sufficient to solve the problem. Let me make it clear that the purpose of free movement has never been the export of begging and sad human fates. That is why we should amend the Residence Directive so that we have the opportunity to return foreign homeless homes. If you don't have a job or a home or try to find one, you actually have nothing to do here. Our call to the Minister for Justice is therefore that Denmark should take the lead in bringing together the neighbouring countries where they are facing the same challenges and that, together with these countries, we should form a common front in the European Union in order to change the current shape of the Residence Directive. In addition, we are also very happy to take part in a discussion on the framework for bottle pledges and the payment of them, because we know that many of these people come here to feed themselves in bottle collection. All in all, however, we welcome the proposal. That is not enough, however, but it is a step on the way, and our call to the government must still be to call the parties for discussion so that we can get all good proposals in play.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602120619	I would like to thank the rapporteur for this. There are brief comments. The first one's from sir. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602120627	Thank you. It is, of course, a good thing that the Social Democrats take a positive view of this. We also hope that the Social Democrats will end up supporting it. I would like to ask a few questions as to whether the Social Democratic Party could possibly support an amendment which increases the penalty for 14 days. It could be even higher. It could be several weeks or several months for the cause that was added to it and whether the Socialists would support, if technically possible, getting into the bill that there should be expulsion if it is a foreign national who is convicted of betting.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602120700	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602120703	This is something we would like to discuss, but there must of course be proportionality in our legislation, including in the area of justice. This expulsion thing is an interesting point. In fact, that is also why I lifted my speech, whether or not there could be expulsion after this sentence has been served. I know there is a verdict from the Supreme Court that says that the penalty must be significantly higher in order for immediate expulsion to take place. That is why, of course, we need to discuss it, because it is not right that we should just have these people in prison and then be released and be able to live the same life on the streets.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602120738	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602120741	There will probably be the answer: the dear EU rules, which the Socialists are indeed warm supporters of, that is to say, in a large number of cases, preventing us from expelling people that we would otherwise like to expel. Then you could get around it by increasing the penalty so that we approach a level where it is easier to expel, or we could get around it, by including it in the legislative proposal, if it is technically possible for expulsion to take place, if you are convicted of betting. But I would like to ask if it is the political attitude of the Social Democratic Party that if you come to Denmark as a foreign citizen, and you earn for the day and the way by begging, then you should be deported.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602120816	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602120819	Yes, that is why we want to change the residence directive. It's just going the right way in this. We would very much like to see a change in the residence directive, so that you do not have a residence in Denmark at all if you do not have a place to live and have nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602120833	Then it's mr. Marcus Knuth, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602120835	Thank you very much. I am very pleased that the Social Democratic Party is positive about this, but I am just very surprised that just over a year ago, when the Left made a proposal that was very similar to this one, precisely 14 days of unconditional jail for betlery, the Social Democracy was in the opposite direction. As I recall, the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr. Dan Jørgensen, something like the police already have the necessary resources. What has caused the Social Democratic Party to change its attitude so significantly? Is it because of the way the winds blow so popularly in the Danish media, or is there something deeper in it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170602120913	Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602120914	First of all, there has been no proposal in this Chamber about precisely that. I do not know where that misunderstanding has arisen, but we have never voted on it here in the Folketing. Secondly, and we have said this very clearly in my speech, my party chairman, Mrs Mette Frederiksen, addressed it very clearly in the closing debate the other day, it is essential for the Social Democratic Party that efforts be stepped up against foreign travellers in relation to the insecurity-building form of trust. That is what was not part of what we were discussing at the time. It wasn't about insecurity-building trust. It was in fact the same problem that was also valid in relation to these camps where, fortunately, we had it changed, because with the Left's first presentation, we would of course hit people who were queued up for a new TV in the Elgigan, if we did not have this part with the insecurity-building part of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602121010	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602121012	I think this distinction with the fact that it should be the foreign homeless that you want to hit is a little weird. If Danish homeless people and they don't, fortunately, decide to behave like some of these criminal foreign homeless people and set up camp and pollute Danish churches and be menacing to the general public, should they be punished just as harshly? Why this focus on the foreign people?
ParlaMint-DK_20170602121040	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602121041	We have to deal with the problems that exist, and the problem is not the House-Back salesman. The problem is not the hobo who has been walking around for many years with his pram and has made a coin for a golden beer. The problem is, of course, what has arisen over the last few years, when there have been some groupings of people who create insecurity, and that is why it has been crucial for us to address the fact that it is the insecurity-building. And there I just have to say that it's not the House Forbi salesman, but it's clear that starting House Forbi salesman to have that behavior, the law applies of course also to him.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602121116	Then it's Mrs. Zenia Stamp.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602121119	After all, we only received the bill yesterday afternoon, which is why there are some ambiguities for me too, which I look forward to clarifying. But there is one in particular, and this is the point of who it hits. Because, as I understand from Mrs Trine Bramsen and Mrs Mette Frederiksen, this should not apply to Danish beggars. But then I just have to ask: where is it in the specific proposal that it is stated that this should only affect foreign beggars? Because I'm having a hard time reading it. I can hear Mrs Trine Bramsen mentioning this with insecurity, but it is not in the paragraph itself. No distinction has been made between Danish beggars and foreign beggars. So where exactly does Mrs Trine Bramsen find that distinction in the bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20170602121209	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602121213	It seems that Mrs. Zenia Stampe did not hear either my speech or my reply to Mr. Marcus Knuth. But I would like to repeat it. It may well be that Mrs Zenia Stamp does not want the problem to have arisen over the past few years. The problem isn't the Hus Forbend salesman or the old tramp. The problem has arisen with human groups coming here and having a different behavior from what we have seen in the past. That is why it is necessary to adapt the legislation. Of course everyone is equal before the law, and that is also what I answered Mr. Marcus Knuth. If the House Forbies begin to have this insecure behavior, then of course the legislation also applies to them. But that's just not the problem we're addressing with the bill here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602121255	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602121259	I simply do not understand that, and I really believe that it was Mrs Trine Bramsen who replied bypass here. What I asked was where Mrs Trine Bramsen sees that the foreign beggar is being distinguished from the Danish beggar. 'Cause the thing is, with that bill, as I read it, it doesn't matter if you're a Roma or if you're a Dane. If you're begging, for example... The S-train, and I often meet beggars, including Danish beggars, and you ask for 1 krone or 5 or 10 or more, then you go to prison for 14 days, even if you are called Martin and Kenneth and you do not have a foreign name.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602121335	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602121338	I honestly do not think that Mrs Zenia Stamp will say, firstly, that it is aimed at what is about strengthening action against foreign travellers, and secondly, that the law applies to everyone. But it is a question of insecurity-building begging. The bill is very clear. It's just a different behavior than what we've seen so far. After all, it is not the old traditional Danish homeless who have a cup standing in front of them that creates the problems in the big cities. Yes, but Mrs Zenia Stamp will have to wait until she has the floor to begin commenting.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602121421	Then it's Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602121425	I have to follow this up, because I fully agree with Mrs Zenia Stampe: what is insecurity-building begging? This bill doesn't define that. So I'm not right when I say that the House Forby-seller or tramp who stands at Christianshavns Square right next to the metro and begs is being hit by this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20170602121452	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602121455	The definition of the insecurity that we have once dealt with in relation to this camp, that is, when they have aggressive behavior, when there are some who feel bothered by it when reviews occur, and you assess the nature of how the betle has happened, and it will of course always be the judgement of the courts with a description of the situation. But it is very clear that it is the insecurity-building and therefore not the passive form of trust.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602121525	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602121528	But then I think that when the Minister comes up we will simply have to get him to explain to us what this insecurity is covering up and who is making that assessment. I can try to ask another question. Let us say that there is a Romanian person sitting at Christianshavns Square with a cup in front of him begging for money. Is this insecure begging?
ParlaMint-DK_20170602121553	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602121556	No, there is, after all, the fact that there is some kind of aggressive character in the insecurity situation, and I can give an example from my local Netto a few weeks ago. Here there was one person who ran after all the traders who came out and touched them, and it had a very aggressive character. It is insecurity-building trust.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602121614	Then it's mr. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602121617	I think we just have to look at what this bill actually means. In Article 197, the following paragraph is added: 2: The requirement for warning does not apply when the relationship has been committed in pedestrian streets, at stations or in public transport. And pieces. 3 says: In determining the penalty it shall be an aggravating circumstance that the relationship has been committed in one of the places referred to in paragraph 3. 2. It doesn't say anything about insecure begging. So can we not just make it clear once and for all that if you are a Danish Kenneth and you are a Danish citizen and you stand begging at Christianshavns Square in front of Brugsen, where there is also a metro station, you will be sentenced to 14 days in jail with this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20170602121705	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602121708	So I have answered that question. The law applies to everyone. It doesn't cross which country you come from. But we must also recognise that in recent years we have seen a change in the way in which the betel goes about. These groups, which have a different behavior from those of traditional hobos or homeless people, are against this bill. By the way, I agree with Mr McMillan-Scott. Rune Lund in that we have to look at whether we can't make it include supermarkets, because it's often there that this kind of behavior actually takes place.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602121737	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602121740	Then we were just able to clarify what is the content of the bill, namely that this is sending beggars 14 days in prison as a starting point if they, for example, send beggars to prison. standing at a station begging. I would really like to ask you about the proportionality of what the rapporteur also mentioned in his rapporteur's speech. Is it proportionate to send people 14 days in prison for begging, when we know that 14 days in prison is otherwise something you can get in connection with a violent sentence? Where's the proportionality of this? We are increasing the penalty so that people begging as a starting point end up in prison for 14 days.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602121820	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602121822	We believe that there is proportionality in the proposal that lies here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602121830	Then Mr. Holger K. Nielsen to report exactly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602121840	I certainly think the matter here is serious enough. But I have to say that when there seems to be so much confusion and when the Socialist rapporteur, who has supported this one hundred per cent, can I understand, is so uncertain about what is really going on, is it not a little irresponsible that we should deal with it urgently? Shouldn't you have thought and said that we should look into this a little bit more closely? When I ask, it's because when I get to Valby Station with the S-train I live in Valby every day there's a man who's been selling for many years. He's a nice man, and everyone likes him, but the way I read the paragraphs of this proposal, he can go to jail for it. It can't be understood any other way. And if it's different, I really think it's sloppy, so it's sloppy, and irresponsible emergency treatment we're going through here. So I would like to know if there could be any little thought as to whether it is true that we are dealing with this as quickly as we are now doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602121939	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602121942	We think it is excellent that we deal with this urgently, because we have a major problem. There's been a distress call from the country's largest municipality that this is a massive problem. That is why we must, of course, be able to provide tools on the part of the Danish Parliament. We don't think this can stand alone. We also think that other initiatives are needed. We do not believe, and we do not believe in this in any context, that simply raising the penalty in individual areas alone can solve a problem. But it is a tool to ensure that there is a more consistent approach to the insecurity-building form of crime that we have seen growing in recent years.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602122024	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602122028	The problem is, of course, that the paragraphs do not show this insecurity. It is also a definition that is difficult to deal with for the police and also subsequently for the courts, because what is it? It is defined as people who are betting in front of stations, on pedestrian streets and such places. It is, of course, geographically defined and not defined according to whether it creates insecurity or not. So I have to understand that the man who sells the house past, who has been standing there at Valby Station for several years, is now going to jail if this is adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602122105	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602122108	No, he doesn't.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602122114	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we move forward, and the next rapporteur is Mr. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602122122	Thank you. We in the Danish People's Party think it is good that the government is acting on the problem. This proposal will not solve all the problems we have with Roma camps and people coming from abroad to beg, etc., but it is, of course, a step in the right direction. As part of the 2017 Finance Act, we have already agreed new rules, such as: means that it will be easier for the police to clear some of these so-called Roma camps, and now we are building on the financial agreement. I cannot help saying that it is a pity that the governing parties and other parties voted against earlier this year when the Danish People's Party proposed a stronger effort to send these EU citizens back home if they are unable to prove that they are complying with the rules. That suggestion could have made a difference. Unfortunately, there was no majority in favour of this. But now is the time, and it is good that we can move with new tightenings. The Roma, who camp in camps in the parks of Danish cities, who steal and threaten and leave waste and what is worse, so difficult that in some cases it is associated with health risks to clean up after them, is an unwelcome burden, and if it were up to the Danish People's Party, they should be sent out of the country. There can probably be 14 days of unconditional imprisonment contributing to more expulsions, but we must, of course, do more. For example: After all, the border controls that we now have are not more effective than the fact that a deported Roma or two can sneak back again. So we propose that we also strengthen border controls. We also ask the government to investigate how they are doing the job in other countries to see if we can be inspired. Then the Residence Directive has also been mentioned in the debate. Among other things: Mrs Trine Bramsen mentioned it. In the Danish People's Party, we do not believe that the Residence Directive should give untold Roma access to camping illegally in the country's parks, threatening homeless, presumptuous begging money by passersby, stealing etc. Stays must be subject to the condition that you have an address to stay at. Of course, it is not a bench in a park or a tent by a lake. And then it must also mean that you have the means to stay in Denmark, and that money should of course not be provided by threatening homeless Danes. Therefore, the police have to check their relationship and if the foreign homeless cannot document the address and means to support themselves, they should be sent out our opinion. At the same time, we believe that the EU government must renegotiate the Residence Directive if there is the slightest real doubt as to whether the directive protects Eastern Europeans and other foreigners from EU countries who come alone to steal and beg or who are unable to support themselves. We support the legislative proposal now before us, and we will examine in committee whether there is any possibility of further tightening up before Parliament ends the season. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602122411	Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Zenia Stamp, Radical Left, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602122416	Now I am trying with the Danish People's Party, because you have made this proposal earlier, so it may be that you can clarify the question whether Danish Kenneth, who is begging in a S-train, will also be affected by these rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602122430	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602122431	If you violate the rules contained in the bill, you will be able to be punished regardless of whether you have one or the other citizenship. But in many of these situations it will also be up to a concrete assessment by the police.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602122445	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602122448	That did not make it clearer to me, because on what should that assessment be based? As I read the draft law, in which the word 'insecurity-building' is not mentioned, it is actually very clear. If you're begging public places, in public transport, in a station or off a supermarket or on a pedestrian street, you're going to have to pay this penalty. So the question is not how to do it. The insecurity-building element is defined according to where it is done. There's the law very clear. That is why I would like to hear: is it Mr. Martin Henriksen's understanding of the law that anyone begging on a train is committing an atrocity, an act that is punishable and that can put these 14 days in jail?
ParlaMint-DK_20170602122538	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602122539	The starting point must clearly be that the answer is yes, because the rules apply, as it were, to everyone. But there will be some situations where the police also have an assessment room. But the starting point is that the bill applies to everyone. If you beg at any of the places in question, you will be hit by the bill. This is a difficult balancing exercise, because we have some obvious problems with Roma in different places in Denmark, which have very, very difficult to behave properly. I have to admit, of course, that we in the Danish People's Party would have liked the legislation to be clearer so that it hits those who really want to hit. But of course this is a difficult balancing act, and the balance has been tried to strike with this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602122619	Sir. Rune Lund, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602122623	Then we made it clear that this will hit anyone who begs, no matter what ethnicity you have, no matter what passport you have. I would like the rapporteur just to stress two points again: it is true that this draft law must be understood as affecting beggars, who are Danish citizens with Danish passports, if they stand and beg, that is to say, begging quite plainly, for example. in front of the metro station at Christianshavns Square here in Copenhagen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602122658	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602122702	I've answered the question. And if sir... Rune Lund and Enhedslisten have some better suggestions to solve the increasing problems we see with Roma around the major Danish cities and very much in Copenhagen, so Enhedslisten is very welcome to present them to the Danish Parliament. Then we'll be happy to discuss it with Enhedslisten. There should be no doubt about that. However, I do not really hear any solution, and that is why we need to act on this. We have already adopted new rules in the Finance Act which make it easier to dissolve some of the camps around us. It's good that those rules are in place. Now we are trying to go further. And yes, that is citizenship-neutral legislation. It is independent of whether you are a Danish national or a national of another EU country. I'm not trying to hide that either. But there will also be opportunities for the courts to go in and assess whether there are any aggravating or mitigating circumstances. That's what the bill says.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602122754	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602122759	Well, then, sir. Martin Henriksen perhaps elaborate a little on what these attenuating and aggravating circumstances could be. Take one whose ethnicity is Danish and has a Danish passport and is a Danish citizen, and one whose ethnicity e.g.. is that he is a Roma, but he is also a Danish citizen. What aggravating or aggravating circumstances could there be in a situation where both beggars had to stand at Christianshavns Square in front of the metro station and beg?
ParlaMint-DK_20170602122828	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602122832	I think I will leave it to the courts, and then I think I will reassure Mr. Rune Lund said that the courts would not place as much emphasis on ethnicity as Mr. Rune Lund does. I think I can make that clear. Then I just want to say that I think it is entirely legitimate to be critical of this bill. But then I also think that we owe it to us to come up with some other solutions, some other measures that we can take to tackle this problem. Because I assume that Enhedslisten and Mr. Rune Lund agrees that we have a growing problem with Roma around Denmark. And how can we do something about it? Perhaps Enhedslisten just thinks that they should be allowed to behave as they do without interference from Danish society. Of course action must be taken. Then we are in a situation where we are sometimes faced with a dilemma, because we have, for example, some international conventions and some EU rules that make it difficult to make the discrimination that we would like to make on the part of the Danish People's Party, and then you have to see if you can find somewhere where the ends can meet, and it is here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602122929	Thank you, sir. Martin Henriksen. Then we'll pass the baton on to Mr. Kim. Marcus Knuth from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602122937	Thank you, sir. President. The Danish cities must be a safe place to travel, but the security has actually been put under pressure from criminals, foreign homeless people, who come here and create insecurity in the streets. We are particularly talking about Eastern European foreigners camping in our streets, begging and even demanding protection money from our Danish homeless. In particular, the latter, I think, is something where I do not understand those who are so critical of this bill. Danish homeless people are being blackmailed, and yet you're against this. I don't understand. I myself have seen the problem down at the Round Tower, where I have walked by several times and have seen a Roma camp growing and growing over the spring to a point where I myself reported the Roma camp, and fortunately, I would say, the police cleared the camp the next morning, but it didn't take long, so the Roma were back again. They used the church area as a toilet to an extent, so church staff were offered hepatitis vaccinations because they had to pick up excrement. This problem is so big that I do not understand that there are people who can be critical of us trying to come up with a very good solution here. At the Left we believe that Denmark should be open to those who come to our country to contribute. I myself come from Lolland, where we have very, very many Eastern Europeans, also from Romania, but also from Poland, from Bulgaria etc., who come and work in our agriculture, contribute positively, send their children into Danish schools, live by the law, and many of them end up settling. Some of the people in Lolland thus have the sense of Eastern Europe, because people come to contribute. But that's not what we see around the parks in Copenhagen. That's not what we see at the Round Tower. That's not what we're looking at at Queen Louises's Bro. I was out at Queen Louises's Bro a week ago to see one of the places where the police had cleared a Roma camp with News to see what really happened here. Two days later I ran by on a run without News, and there were the Roma back where they sat and begged, drank, shouted and screamed, and I understand that people feel uncomfortable about it. That is why we wholeheartedly support the Justice Minister's proposal here. I think it is right and proper to tighten up the penalties for begging when it has been committed in a pedestrian street, at a station, at public transport, and it is, of course, on the basis of the bitter experience we have that yes, we gave the police increased powers in April to remove camps. I would like to congratulate the Copenhagen Police for really taking action, but unfortunately we see that it has not been quite enough. At the same time, I do not think we should do as the Socialist Frank Jensen, Mayor of Copenhagen, and just say that this is all a problem that the European Union has to solve. Unfortunately, it is not that easy and especially not said by a former Minister of Justice. He should know better. I believe that we must resolve this problem in cooperation across municipalities, Parliament and, of course, the European Union as well. We must also take this up in the European Union, but I think that everyone in this room knows very well that amending a residence directive in the European Union is not something that will happen tomorrow. So, yes, we have to work on all fronts, not just on one. At the same time, the Left looks forward to the results of the study on extended zone bans, a fixed track system for expulsions and, above all, the discussion in the European Union as the three concrete initiatives here. So with the government's bill here comes a concrete and significant initiative, which hopefully is a step that can solve the problem of the insecurity-building camps and begging, which we have seen a marked growth of in Copenhagen and other cities this year. Against this background, I must say that we naturally support the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602123351	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602123357	Thank you. Now the rapporteur is going after those who do not support the bill, and now we have to see how many it is that do not directly support it. With reference to the fact that we do not want to help solve the problem, I believe that everyone in this Chamber would like to do so, and I think we should also acknowledge that the rapporteur says that the reason why the rapporteur is so positive about the draft law is that we, among other things, are: must have intervened in relation to the fact that Danish homeless people are being blackmailed. I fully agree with the rapporteur on this. The same Danish homeless people who are being blackmailed and who may have to sit down at a station or in a S-train and ask for money from passersby or passengers are also being hit by this bill. Does the rapporteur think this is appropriate?
ParlaMint-DK_20170602123447	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602123451	The law is, of course, as I have said and I think we have been through it several times with a former colleague who stood here on the platform just for everyone, so if you like. has a situation with a large grouping of Danish homeless people who make an insecure camp, for example. at Queen Louises's Bro, or begging in a way where it is criminal in relation to the bill here, then the law applies to everyone, whether you come from Romania, from India or from Læsø. And that is why I asked the Socialist rapporteur about exactly the same area, that is to say that this is not just about hitting foreigners; it is about hitting everyone who creates certain conditions in Denmark, wherever you come from.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602123534	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602123537	I do not dispute at all that the law is equal for everyone. It would certainly be strange if it were to come from me that it was not. So I think it is very positive that there has been no attempt to discriminate. What I'm questioning is that part of this bill also means an increased criminalisation of the Danish tramp, the road knight, who sits down at a train station and asks for money for a meal, a pack of cigarettes, a cup of coffee, what do I know? They're also gonna be covered by this bill. And that is why I am asking whether the rapporteur thinks it appropriate that in this way we should hit the part of our people that has always been there and that we, I would say, have accepted as part of our society. Because there is also reason for us to have a diversity that means that we have room for this in Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602123628	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602123633	Well, of course we have room for Danish homeless people in society, and I am so delighted that the Danish homeless people have just organized themselves by getting an extra income through selling, for example. magazine house past. It's 100 percent legal, and this proposal won't change that. But the pattern we see of criminal Roma camping, who sit and beg in the streets, who defile Danish churches by using their outdoor areas as toilets, is quite another problem. But we don't have a comprehensive problem. I don't know at least with Danish homeless people who follow that pattern, and therefore they won't get hit either, because they primarily sell House Past and they don't behave in a way that is insecure.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602123715	Mrs. Zenia Stampe, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602123719	Well, maybe it's because mr. Marcus Knuth doesn't often take the S-train, because I can tell you that you meet a lot of Danes in the S-trains, who are also begging the same, over and over again, and they are certainly not insecure, but they will be affected by this legislation. What I really want to ask is to get the Roma out of Denmark, because that is where I think we actually agree. But then I would like to ask: we are talking here about a population that is homeless and think Mr. Marcus Knuth really wants to leave the country because they get a punishment that means they get shelter for a while? Thinks sir. Marcus Knuth really that it makes them leave Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20170602123801	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602123805	Allow me to comment on the first point made by Mrs Zenia Stampe. I have also experienced many beggars in the metro and in the S-train lately, and maybe we take two different S-train lines, because I've only experienced what you would call criminal Roma that go through the trains and can be very aggressive in the way they beg. But maybe, as I said, I just took some other S-train lines. But when it comes to getting out criminal Roma and it is important to stress that it is the criminal Roma and not just the Roma, as Mrs Zenia Stamp says, because it is not a population group that we are going after, it is a criminal group that we are going after, so I do not know if Mrs Zenia Stamp read Berlingske the other day, where there was an interview with a Roma named Marius who had come here. He said he was surprised that he didn't make any more money and that he actually intended to go home. The reason he had come to Denmark was that he could send money back to his family, but if it didn't pay off, he wouldn't be in Denmark anymore. And if it comes to people who come here to do crime, and then for a 14-day period they do not earn a penny that they can send home, on thefts and on bottle collection, well then I find it hard to see that there is a business case for them to be in Denmark. And if there's no business case, I'm pretty sure they're leaving the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602123924	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602123928	Yeah, but it's the criminals, and I think we should go after them in all kinds of other ways. The fact is that this bill not only affects the criminals, it also affects the person who is just holding the hat in his hand, and that is also the Dane. And that's why I asked about the Roma, who are not criminals, but who just walk around collecting bottles and begging every once in a while and who, by the way, sleeps in the open. And I'm just thinking, is this really the way to get them out of Denmark? Is it by giving them a prison sentence where they actually get shelter? I just doubt the impact of that bill, if I'm to be honest.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602124001	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602124005	This proposal should not be seen as a proposal that stands alone. We have already implemented measures that allow Roma camps to be cleared out of the area. I mean, this is part of a much bigger package, so that we can both clear Roma camps, issue fines to look up these camps and tighten up the penalties, and now there are an extra set of tools that the police and the authorities can use. So it's just more resources... it shouldn't be seen as the only thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602124038	Then it's mr. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602124043	The starting point for the punishment to be meted out here will be 14 days in jail if you beg in front of a station or in a pedestrian street or in a public transport vehicle. Is that proportional? I mean, 14 days in jail is something else you get too simple violence, for example. traffic violence where one person hits another person in the head with a flat hand. Can it really be right that begging should now be punished as harshly as simple violence in our country?
ParlaMint-DK_20170602124116	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602124121	I do not know whether the rapporteur has had the opportunity to pass one of the many Roma camps that we currently have. around Copenhagen. I've walked past the one that was down at the Trinitarian Church, very, very many times. And when you look at the way that grouping behaves by using the church's territory as a toilet, by sitting and shouting and by making crime by a large number of measures, and you can solve the problem of giving 14 days in jail for begging in a situation where we see a hugely increasing problem, yes, then I think it is proportional.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602124201	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602124205	So Denmark's liberal party thinks that sitting in front of a train station is just as bad as exposing others to violence. I think that is a strangely liberal view. Then I just think that the rapporteur is consistently mixing it all together in a big light bulb. One thing is rules about camps and how to clear them. Another thing is rules of begging, which this bill is all about, and these are two different things. I simply think that the rapporteur is messing with everything. I am really just deeply ashamed that Denmark's so-called liberal party may think that one should just as long in prison for being poor and sitting and begging in front of a train station as one should if one goes and hits someone in the face with a flat hand.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602124252	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602124255	It is a complete core value for the Left, the Danish Liberal Party, that our fellow citizens can travel in the streets of our cities, and that is not what has been the case recently, when there has been a sharp increase in the number of homeless criminals who have come to Denmark. We're not just gonna sit around and do nothing. I think it is hypocrisy from the rapporteur's party to be so critical of a problem that cuts the eyes of so many people that the Mayor of Copenhagen and the Mayor of Copenhagen have asked for more help. I do not think they have asked for the right help. I am sure that the rapporteur also reads in the written media. After all, there has been a flood of reading from people who feel really, really insecure because of the huge increase in the number of criminal Roma who have been in Copenhagen this year. So to say that it is not proportional when we then increase the penalty and thus hopefully can help solve the problem, I think is completely out in hemp.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602124354	Thank you, sir. Marcus Knuth. And then it's just sir. Rune Lund from Enhedslisten, on her way.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602124411	Thank you. I would like to start my rapporteur's speech by saying that, basically, this is one of the wildest, populist legislative proposals I have seen in this collection. This is both because of the content, but also because of the way in which it has ended up being dealt with, where the business order here at first reading has been put out of hand, where consultation deadlines have been put out of hand, and where urgent action has been taken, because some different political parties want to exercise their powers of action. It is a decision which is prompted by the fact that two days ago we had a final debate here in the Danish Parliament, where in some of the many speeches there was an unusually ugly tone compared to the way a particular ethnic minority was mentioned, namely the Roma. I felt that that part of the graduation debate was in many ways very unpleasant because one could see that many of the speeches that came simply could not pass the Jewish test, that is, the test one can do, by changing the word Roma with Jews. And I think that, in general, very ugly talk is being made about an ethnic group. We must remember that being Roma is, after all, something of ethnicity; it is an ethnicity we are talking about, just as there are other forms of ethnicity. So there are also Danes who are Roma and there are Roma who have lived here for generations. And when you say that Roma generally do your or that or talk about the Roma problem or that we have problems with Roma, it is a complete simplistic and also for me to see a creepy way to address a particular ethnic minority group. This does not change the fact that there are, of course, challenges and problems that need to be addressed, i.e. that there are foreign homeless people coming to Denmark. And in relation to the camps that exist in different places in our cities, it is of course the case that the police have to remove those camps. But it has to be done properly. It has to be done, for example. not happen in the way that you send a bulldozer out and take away all the people's belongings or papers, including identity papers, from them, which can cause major problems. For a long time now, the Enhedslisten has wanted the so-called transit areas to be legalised. The rooms are a way to ensure that the people who are homeless in Denmark and live on the streets of begging or collecting bottles or other things are given an opportunity to return home in a dignified way. The purpose of a transit room must be to provide the state of the homeless with regard to health and the right to social benefits in the country of origin, to provide the necessary means for things such as: food, accommodation, elementary health care, interpreting and assistance for contacts with home-country authorities, relevant NGOs and/or families, and to plan and contribute to the return and reception of the homeless in the home-country social system. That is why we call it transit spaces, because the aim is to ensure that some people who are here for reasons of poverty and other reasons are given the opportunity to be sent back home in a dignified and decent way. The details of the offer that these transit rooms have to offer are outreach work and references to the transit room, legal and social advice and assistance to contact the home Embassy in e.g. Copenhagen and relevant NGOs in the country of origin and/or family in the country of origin. Of course, in order to increase the possibility of the repatriation being successful, it is essential that a transit room cooperates with and establish contact with the country of origin. There is also the whole problem of inequality in this, and it is about how we ensure that poor countries in Europe get some money so that they can help combat the inequality that drives people up here in search of better opportunities. Moreover, there is, of course, a general aspect of inequality in the migration that we see being directed at kingdoms and countries around the world. Finally, I would like to point out something that I think is essential to point out, and that is that there is a wide range of opportunities for sending people out. You can stay here for three months as an EU citizen if you are looking for work and you must be able to prove that you can support yourself during that period and that you are looking for a job. So there is plenty of opportunity to send people out; the police already have that opportunity. And, of course, as is already the case today, if you commit crime and, by the way, have no links with the country, for example. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Because when you commit crime, you can of course be sent out of Denmark. So we already have a whole range of tools today. But the issue of raising the penalty for begging, so that people can be sent 14 days in prison, is completely out of proportion and is a symbolic policy that must make some parties look powerful without being able to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602125011	Thank you. There are brief comments, and that is Mr. Marcus Knuth, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602125015	Thank you very much. I would like to start by saying that I agree with the first, as the rapporteur said, namely that it is important that we say 'criminal Roma' and not try to stigmatise an entire population. We have a lot of problems here in Copenhagen, drunk Swedes, etc., but if you just say "romaer" or "swedish" we're into something a little different. That is also why I corrected Mrs Zenia Stampe earlier when the term Roma was used. It is important to say "criminals Roma". But now we have a problem that is growing so explosively and where hundreds of Danes have reported criminal Roma and Roma camps, etc. I also sometimes feel insecure if I go through a park and feel completely surrounded by these Roma camps and then what I do not understand is that the rapporteur cannot come up with anything a little better than the proposals that have been made here. We have a system in which the Danish homeless have a profession by selling the house past, and it's a really, really nice system. They are not primarily concerned with ordinary begging, which is presumptuous and so on, so why not just raise the penalty for one of the things that is a significant source of income for criminal Roma and criminal homeless people?
ParlaMint-DK_20170602125135	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602125139	Sir. Marcus Knuth consistently confuses things. A camp that exists in public spaces can already be cleared today. Legislation is in place to ensure this. This bill is about begging and setting the penalty for begging in front of a station, in a pedestrian street, or in a public transport. I think it is totally disproportionately that we are now going to put poor people sitting begging in front of a train station in prison for 14 days. It is a punishment that corresponds to what you get if you practice so-called simple violence against other people in our society. I believe that punishing people for begging is seen in line with the practice of violence against other people. I think that is simply a completely crazy way of making legal policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602125231	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602125234	Thank you. I find it interesting that the rapporteur opens the door to raising the penalty for simple violence. This could be an interesting discussion. But the basic thing here is that there are many Danes who feel insecure. Now we can see that Mrs Zenia Stampe and I are both taking S-trains, but different lines, and I have also seen large groups of young criminal Roma, for example. walks through the train and begs in a very presumptuous way up and down through the S-train. And I don't think that's okay. And if we can then solve the problem of begging, and perhaps also motivate them to go home, because for a period of 14 days they cannot operate in different ways, then I think that 14 days in prison is a very good punishment, which is very proportional. I find it difficult to understand why the rapporteur cannot see it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602125323	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602125326	This bill is about begging, isolated from begging. It is not about harassment or harassment or violence or blackmail or other things. Of course, this should not be done, and there is legislation that can handle it. This bill is about raising the penalty to beg, and it's a bill that will hit all beggars. I understand that some rapporteurs are trying to make it look as if it were going to hit certain ethnic groups or certain people with a certain passport, but it is not going to. It's gonna hit people who sit completely innocently begging in front of a train station. They will now have to go to prison for 14 days to sit in the front of the hat and ask for 5 kroner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602125408	Then it's mr. Nase Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602125411	Well, you get a little tired in the head sometimes when it all comes to process and rhetoric and tone etc. Why is the rapporteur not dealing specifically with the issue? We have a problem. Law-abiding citizens keep coming and saying: we are being harassed, there are burglary, there are thefts, we are being molested by those Roma camps. That means that action is required, and that is what we are trying to do. Therefore, it is extremely important to address the issue and not constantly to the process. I would like to ask a question about begging: is the rapporteur aware that begging is illegal today? It's actually illegal to beg today. Can the rapporteur give a single example of a Danish homeless person who has been punished for begging?
ParlaMint-DK_20170602125507	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602125511	I would very much like to discuss the specific legislative proposal. It consists of two paragraphs. This isn't about breaking and entering or any of the other things that Mr. Nase Khader argues. It's about tightening the penalty for begging for anyone who begs, no matter where you come from. That is the wording of the bill, even if some parties are trying to make it appear as if this were going to hit a particular ethnic minority group. It doesn't. Yes, begging is also illegal today. Basically, I think it is wrong to punish people for sitting with a mug in their hand and asking for 2 kroner, whether it is at a train station, whether it is at a bus stop, or whether it is in front of a supermarket. And I do not see that the fact that there are some poor people sitting begging should in itself be insecure. What can be insecure is, if someone is showing harassment and harassing other people, blackmailing people. There are, for example: the history of a homeless person being charged 500 kroner. to sleep in the open. But these are acts which are already punishable. So yes, I am dealing with this bill, and I can see that the Conservative People's Party also thinks that you should go to jail for 14 days if you sit and beg in front of a train station. I find that extremely problematic.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602125622	Sir. Nase Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602125623	But does the rapporteur have an example of someone who has begged 15 kroner? and have been punished?
ParlaMint-DK_20170602125632	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602125633	I do not have examples of this, but I know that we have legislation that criminalises it, and I know that if you have to go out and focus on innocent begging if I can call it that in front of a train station, which is what this bill is about, then it will hit everyone. And I find it very difficult to imagine anything other than that if the police are now to make an increased effort to go after people with a certain ethnic origin that I could hear that Mr. Martin Henriksen imagines that the police might be able to do so, but then it will also be the case that the effort will begin to strike at anyone other than the particular ethnic minority group.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602125713	Then it's mr. Martin Henriksen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602125715	Thank you. I just want to know if Mr. Keating's gonna be okay. Rune Lund and Enhedslisten believe that there is a problem with visitors coming to Denmark from other EU countries and creating insecurity and harassing different places in society. Is there a problem with that? And if Enhedslisten thinks there's a problem with it, what do you want to do about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170602125736	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602125737	As I said clearly in my rapporteur's speech, yes, we have a problem. Yes, we have a challenge. We have to deal with this challenge and we can handle it in different ways. It is acting, for example. That the camps which are not allowed to be there and which the police can clear today must be cleared. But they must be carefully cleared and properly cleared, for example. Not only, as we saw in a case on the Amager Common, bulldoze it all, so that people's identity papers also disappear. It was a major problem for the people who suffered. We must ensure that the people who are here and who really should not be here, because they come up and live on the street and live a wretched life, can be sent home in a dignified way. That is why we have the proposal on transit spaces, which I described quite clearly in my rapporteur's speech. Then there is the international aspect which is about making a redistribution, both in Europe, but also in the rest of the world, looking at how to eliminate the causes of the inequality which, of course, makes everything else equal, people who want to come up here to see if they can make a better life by making some money, even in small, by selling bottles or by collecting bottles and putting them in vending machines. Of course, there are also those who are criminals, but it is the case today that if you are a criminal, you are deported. Those are the rules, and that is the way it should be. What I think is the problem is that when Mr. Martin Henriksen, for example. in his rapporteur's speech, we need to address the Roma problem and the growing problems with Roma. Try to take the Jewish test on some of the formulations that Mr. Martin Henriksen uses: We need to address the growing problems with Jews. How does ethnicity play a part in this discussion? I simply cannot believe that Mr. Martin Henriksen cannot conduct this debate at a more proper level.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602125920	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602125921	So, the level of debate is high in this Chamber, that is to say. Or you could say that sir... Rune Lund just helped make it even higher. When you use such arguments, it is basically because you have no arguments. But peace be to it. I'd like to know if Mr. Rune Lund couldn't be a little more precise about what it's like, Enhedslisten will solve these problems, for many of the so-called proposals, as Mr. Rune Lund mentions, you've tried before to some extent. In other words, it is the case today that in various voluntary organisations, too, and I know from the City of Copenhagen, people are trying to help people back to their home countries. And yes, we speak among other things. on Roma. They're the people we're talking about. Let us now call things by their right name, without all of us having to compete over who can be most offended, because then it can be a very, very long day. So you've tried some of these things. But it doesn't work because the problem is still gone. So what is needed is for us to come up with new rules that will give the authorities better opportunities, for example, to be able to expel some of these people, because we can see that it is very difficult today. And that's where I'm wondering if Enhedslisten has some other solution than just pulling the indignation card. We can all do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602130030	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602130032	I think we should be very careful about trying to tone down how important it is how we talk about ethnic minority groups. Throughout history, the Roma have suffered persecution, ethnic cleansing. Hundreds of thousands of Roma died during World War II in Nazi concentration camps. It is very, very important how we talk about certain ethnic minority groups in order not to create a hetz atmosphere, so as not to create the impression that there are some groups of people who are particularly strange or criminal or to the detriment of Danish society. Roma have lived in Denmark for many centuries. Lots of Roma live in Denmark. They go to work every day. Many of them do not want to acknowledge their ethnic identity, understood in such a way that it is not something they go along with because they experience the hetz that is often against Roma. This does not change the fact that the real problems that exist need to be dealt with. But they must be dealt with properly, for example. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. because the Danish People's Party will not support it because the Danish People's Party will not help people who are not legally resident in Denmark. We'd like that. We want to help them get out in a proper and dignified way.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602130145	Thank you. There are no more questions and that was the end of this rapporteur. Rune Lund That's too bad. That's life. You can't force people to ask questions. The next rapporteur is Mrs Christina Egelund, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602130201	Thank you. Several rapporteurs have already mentioned the issue raised by this draft law. From my point of view, this is an issue that requires a nuanced approach, so on the one hand you hit the organized begging, where the backers send other people on the street to beg for themselves and make these camps, as others have also described, but on the other hand you do not hit those that many have also addressed, i.e. a hugged poor person on the street who is standing and would like to ask for a fiveer. I am, in fact, also concerned about that balance. As the debate in this Chamber also reflects, it is a balance which can be difficult to hedge into legislation. But it is precisely with the balance in mind that there is the demarcation in the draft law that the punishments resulting from this bill only come into force when the action takes place in special places. It is an attempt to strike exactly the balance that we in the Liberal Alliance also think is important. Then we must remember, as others have also mentioned, that begging is already punishable. So there is no criminalisation of something that is not already criminal. I am happy to say that there are dilemmas in this, and it may well be that it hits some people who are not the ones we want to hit with the bill. But that is the way it is when you have a principle that we all agree on, I think, that the law is the same for everyone. So I stand by the fact that it can hit disproportionately. On the other hand, I also think that we have a duty to act when we see that there is a problem that is incredibly difficult to deal with, and that is the dilemma that this bill is trying to address. So, overall and with these different balances in mind, the Liberal Alliance supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602130410	There is one question from Mr. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602130413	Does Mrs Christina Egelund think that the punishment for begging is proportional when it is now supposed to be 14 days in jail and when you also get about 14 days in jail for simple violence in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20170602130429	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602130431	Then, of course, the penalty for simple violence could be increased, because I agree that there is a proportionality aspect there that looks a little weird. Then I'd rather put up the penalty for simple violence. However, as I also said in my rapporteur's speech, I stand by the fact that this draft law could, in cases where it is not proportionate, fall into disproportionately. On the one hand, I think that is important, but on the other hand, I think that we also have a duty to try to address this problem, which I think everyone recognizes is a real problem, but which I have just not heard from the left a lot of good ideas about how else to address.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602130508	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602130510	Then it was because Mrs Christina Egelund did not listen when I gave my rapporteur's speech. I think it looked as if Mrs Christina Egelund was actually listening to what I said. But this bill is not proportional. However, that concession has come from the rapporteur. If I sit down and beg at Christianshavns Square in front of the metro station when this is adopted, I'm going to jail for 14 days. Is this the kind of society we have to live in, where people who sit innocently and stick out their hand with a cup or a plastic bucket, now have to go 14 days in prison to sit and ask for 5 kroner.?
ParlaMint-DK_20170602130556	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602130557	We already live in a society where getting up somewhere and asking for 5 kroner. In fact, it is a criminal offence, so there is virtually nothing new about it. Then maybe I think that sir... Rune Lund misunderstood my earlier reply a little when he says that I am saying that the bill itself is unproportional. I said it could hit disproportionately. We have to see how this works, and that is why I think that we should also consider, in committee, possibly introducing a review clause into what we could also talk about a sunset clause to look at how it will work in reality. To the fact that Enhedslisten has a proposal on how to address this, I would say that what I heard was because I was actually listening to what Mr. Rune Lund said in her speech that then you should look at the redistribution in the world, and if there was no poor, then there was no need to beg. I just want to say that if we are to wait for us to eradicate poverty in the world before we can address the very specific problem we have in the street picture in Copenhagen, then it will take a long time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602130654	Then it's Mrs. Zenia Stamp.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602130657	I do not really remember what the situation was like, but it may be that Mrs Christina Egelund can explain it to me. But there was something about the fact that the Danish People's Party and perhaps also the former Minister of Justice made this proposal a year ago, and that the reason why it did not end up being tabled was that there was not a majority because the Social Democracy, but also the Liberal Alliance, was not in favour of the proposal. That is why I would just like to hear what has changed in the meantime.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602130722	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602130723	It's quite correctly remembered. What has then changed is that the bill that is being first examined here today is not a copy of the bill that was on the table at the time, and that is precisely because we were against it. That is why we have introduced this definition of special places, in order to try to hit those we would like to hit, but not hit them, which we would rather not hit.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602130747	Mrs. Zenia Stamp.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602130749	Okay, so this clarification about public transport, stations and pedestrians is then the demarcation that has made it acceptable to the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602130803	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602130805	Yeah, that's right. This is an attempt and, as I said in my reply to Mr. Rune Lund, I think this is a law that you have to revise after a while and see how it works in practice. But I am happy to say that on the one hand there are some fundamental things, in relation to how hard you punish poor hung-up people who are asking for 1 or 2 kroner. to take care of the day and the road, but that on the other hand we also have a real problem that we have to solve, and then we have to see how we hit it with this. We can just see so far that no one has been able to come up with better ideas and that the current legislation has not succeeded in solving this problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602130845	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602130857	Thank you. I would like to start with a quote to establish where we stand in this case in the Alternative: we want to crack down on what can be called organized begging, which is often done by the backers of Romania, where you push people on the street to beg. But we are not in favour of sharpening the penalty for the little hugged-up man standing on the street asking for a five-year term. In fact, it was the Legal Rapporteur of the Liberal Alliance, Christina Egelund, who said this in Jyllands-Posten last year on 24 September. Now, when I hear where the Liberal Alliance stands today and what has made them change their minds, this is where the special places are not allowed to beg, I have to say that it depends on which street you stand on. If you're not allowed to stand down on the street, there's got to be some road names on it. If you're down on Torvegade, at least you can't beg. That's not why I took out the quote. I was going to do that in any case, because it illustrates very well where the alternative is in this case. We fully agree that we recognise that there is a problem of begging as part of organised crime. We would very much like to contribute to this. So we recognise that there is a problem, but we do not believe that we should criminalise further. It will hit exactly the hugged man or the road knight or woman who asks for a penny for a pack of cigarettes or a meal food, whether it is in a park or at a S-train station or on Strøget or in a S-train, and whether he is Danish or foreign. That's what we could call poverty-gazing. That's a word I've invented. What we could call begging, which is carried out on the basis of basic needs, i.e. a desire for a meal, a pack of cigarettes, a cup of coffee, or whatever it may be, we will not be able to hit harder in the alternative. The alternative is that we should be able to accommodate it in our society. It is a social problem, and we certainly do not solve it by criminalising those people further. If we set the penalty for these people, there is a risk in our optics that we are pushing them into real and harder crime. Making begging more illegal certainly does not solve our social problems. And it is not a strengthening of our social security network, nor is it a strengthening of the security of our citizens when we talk about the kind of begging I just described as poverty-provoking. Then the question is whether this bill will solve the real challenges with the groups that commit organised crime and among other things. Raiding where the homeless are. As Mr. Rune Lund really did mention that I think it's really important to hold on to what they're doing is pretty much illegal. There is legislation in place in relation to many of the things that apply. And that's the problem. And, of course, the police have to deal with it. The fact that they are begging is not the real problem. So when we want to tighten up the penalties for begging through such an urgent legislative proposal, we do not address the real problem and we could possibly do that by other means. For example: some have suggested that we should require a permanent residence address. There are others who have proposed strengthening and disseminating the transit programmes that several people have also spoken about today. They aim to help vulnerable foreigners to a better life in their homeland. There may also be other good measures, which I am sure we could agree on together, if we could put ourselves together broadly politically in this Parliament and include the necessary expertise, which also exists out there. After all, the Council of Social Affairs Ministers has been out to comment on this. So have many others. If we could sit together in a broad political circle and discuss the problem, I am actually quite sure that we could possibly agree. But you didn't want that. Instead, if you ask me, you have put forward a draft law very quickly, which in itself, I think, is a democratic injustice, because it simply does not give us politicians the right conditions to work under. So we haven't had the opportunity to hear parties to the case. I know there will be a hearing on 12 June, and then we will have two days for the second and third readings. I think there is a democratic problem in implementing urgent legislation. That is why, as a starting point, we are rejecting this bill. We really would have liked to have been involved in trying to solve the challenges that we know are there, but we will not be able to help the homeless person sitting down on Torvegade not to reach out his cup when I go by and say: Will you give me a fiver for a pack of cigarettes? By the way, I live across the street. Of course, there must be room for this in our society. We will, of course, read the hearings with interest, and once we have read them, we will have to decide again whether we are in the same place as we are now. I think we do, but as we say in the alternative, we know more, so of course we will come back with a final attitude after we have read the consultation answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602131405	So far, there are three questioners. The first is Mrs Christina Egelund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602131410	Thank you. When I take the floor, it is simply to ask the rapporteur to clarify some of what she said, because she said several times something that is simply not right. The rapporteur said that this bill makes begging more illegal. The rapporteur also said that there is further criminalisation of begging. That is simply not true, because begging is already criminal. You don't expand the area of what's a felony with this bill. You change the punishment, that is, the penalty, but you don't criminalise any more. That is simply not true. Will the rapporteur not confirm this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170602131442	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602131443	Yes, I'm sorry. I'm the one who speaks out. I thought, of course, that this is an increased punishment we are giving.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602131448	Mrs. Christina Egelund.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602131450	Thank you. Then the rapporteur addressed a number of other ways in which this problem could be solved, and that is, of course, a good thing. One of the things the rapporteur said was that it might be possible to demand that, if EU citizens come here, they should have a permanent residence address, and there is my very open question: how on earth is it intended to be enforced? Because we have freedom of movement in Europe. I think that is a good idea, it thinks the Liberal Alliance is a good idea, and I think that the alternative too is a good idea. So how on earth is it intended to enforce that EU citizens who come here and reside should have a permanent residence address? Then it's out in some wild border control setup.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602131530	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602131532	I do not want any wild border controls, but I am just aware that these are some proposals that have been put forward by, among others. The mayor of the Social Democrats, Frank Jensen, and when I mention it from up here, it's just to open up some opportunities for us to come after this in other ways. It may be that it turns out that it is not possible at all, and then we have to take note of it. My point from here is simply to spread the range in relation to saying whether there could be other ways in which we could get rid of organized crime.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602131556	Then it's mr. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602131559	Thank you very much. First of all, I cannot help wondering why the rapporteur's party is so critical of this. I know that a large part of the alternative party is popular in Copenhagen. So I am surprised that the party's hinterland is not very positive about solutions like this, precisely because it is very much a problem in Copenhagen and other major cities. But what I note is that the rapporteur speaks very adventurously about the poor Danish road knight, etc. They don't go around begging. They typically come to fix a door or sharpen your knives and make them sharp or something. As far as the Danish homeless are concerned, they have just organized themselves, and among other things. Because begging has already been illegal, they have organized themselves by being able to collect money through, for example. To sell House Past. So the problem is not the Danish road knight or the Danish homeless. The problem is insecurity-building groups of young men, such as: go through the S-togenes and on a very presumptuous • if we just stick to the begging issue • show begging. If the rapporteur agrees that this is insecurity-building, why should we not increase the penalty for it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170602131714	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602131716	To address the first, as the rapporteur said, yes, we are a party that has many voters in Copenhagen and is very fond of Copenhagen and, as I started by saying in my rapporteur's speech, we would also like to address the problem in Copenhagen. What is the problem is that this bill does not solve the problem of organised crime. That would be our claim. Nor have we seen any evidence whatsoever that it should do so. We're getting a bill, but there's no evidence that you're supposed to have some kind of assumption that this is gonna work. That's one thing. Now I forgot the second question. I have simply forgotten that, and the rapporteur has to repeat it. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602131757	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602131759	It's happened to me, too. But let me move on to another part. If the rapporteur refuses to tighten up the penalties for begging, the rapporteur will agree, for example. to sharpen the penalty for some of the other things? Will the rapporteur be open to dialogue on, for example: prison term for forming one of these so-called Roma camps?
ParlaMint-DK_20170602131819	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602131821	We will be very much open to discussing how we can take more action against organised crime, because everything else equals organised crime is one of the things that in our society is speculative in a form, one can say that has nothing but the aim of harming other people, and in this way we would very much like to enter into discussions, in terms of how we can put an end to organised crime. I cannot stand on the platform today and say 'yes' or 'no' to whether we are going to agree to stricter penalties in certain areas, but we would very much like to enter into the dialogue.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602131854	Sir. Nase Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602131857	I would like to reiterate the question I put to the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten. The rapporteur for the alternative mentioned the example of the beggar begging for DKK 5, but does the rapporteur have an example of a beggar begging for DKK 5, being imprisoned or prosecuted?
ParlaMint-DK_20170602131916	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602131918	No, I have no example of that. I don't see the relevance either. Why should it be relevant that I have an example of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170602131926	Sir. Nase Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602131927	It is only when you beg in a way that is insecure. It is not people who are peacefully begging for 5 kroner. Much more needs to be done than the example mentioned by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602131941	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602131942	But then the rapporteur must ask his minister to clarify it in the legislative text, because that is not what it says. It doesn't say it's insecure begging. I know that the concept has been mentioned several times today, but it does not say in the draft law that there should be any distinction in relation to insecurity-building begging. So it simply has to be clarified if that is the purpose.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602132003	We thank the rapporteur because there are no more questions. We move forward in the rapporteur's line and the next rapporteur is Mrs Zenia Stamp, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602132017	Well, it can't come as a surprise after my questions that we're against the bill. We are, partly because it affects the Danish homeless, partly because we think it is an unproportionally harsh punishment; all of them mention 14 days, but it is up to 1⁄2 years. The 14 days are just a minimum penalty for first-time cases, then you have to assume that the penalty will be higher, up to 1⁄2 years. Then we are also against it because we simply doubt the effect. So, do you get higher punishment for begging these people to go home? Because in reality it is not begging that is the big problem. It is, of course, the presence of foreign homeless people which is a problem for Denmark, and that is why we live in a welfare society where we have done a lot to ensure that people do not have to live on the streets, and when Danes live on the streets, there are usually other reasons for this than poverty. Therefore, the problem of this type of homelessness is something new for us as a society, because we have just done everything we can to ensure that people do not have to live on the streets, and it is not only for their own sake but also because a marked degree of homelessness creates insecurity. That is why it is also a problem that we recognise. This is particularly a problem here in Copenhagen, and I now know that Aarhus has had the problem. But right now it is said that you have not registered many foreign beggars or foreign homeless people, and that they may be coming but they have not yet arrived. On the other hand, it is said that the homeless in Aarhus are worried about these austeritys, because they are afraid that it will hit them, and that is one of the reasons why we are against the proposal, namely that it will also lead to a harder approach towards Danish homeless people, and that is not something we want to support. On the other hand, we would very much like to take part in a discussion on how to tackle this problem, because I have no problem recognising and saying it loud and clear that we have a problem, and it is an unintended consequence of free movement, that we have therefore also had the movement of homelessness, a problem which we had otherwise largely eliminated in Denmark, at least in terms of homelessness with poverty as a cause. And that is why we want to enter into a dialogue on what we can do. There are different bets. There is the effort for the criminals, but not all the foreign homeless are criminals, at least not hard-boiled criminals, so some of them are just beggars and bottle collectors, and I think we need a slightly different approach to the two groups, but certainly need an approach to both groups. And with regard to the foreign homeless, who are not criminals but who are begging, I would also like to be honest and say that I also think it is a problem that there are large groups of homeless people who may not be hard-boiled criminals but who are begging, because I know that it also creates insecurity in cities. But I don't believe this is the means. For they come from misery and poverty, and so I do not believe that a 14-day prison sentence is a punishment for which they are intimidated; after all, there is a roof over their heads for the 14 days and food on the table, and that is more than what they come from. That is why I believe that there needs to be a completely different approach to this: perhaps a dialogue with the countries where the foreign homeless come primarily from, Romania and Bulgaria; the establishment of transit centres; also a look at the European rules for it and a government that is actively going to the European Union and asking: is it time we looked at the residence directive and can we make some demands so that free movement applies, of course, to tourists and to the labour force, but perhaps to the same extent to homelessness, which can be said to be the case here? I think that would be a discussion that could be opened up at EU level, because we are not the only country that has this problem. Then I would say that there may in fact be more possibilities within the current legislation. It is the case today that as an EU citizen you can stay in another EU for a maximum of 3 months, but in Denmark we do not register when people arrive. Could there be any options there? So, if you actually meet some homeless people on the street, can you register them there? At any rate, if you meet them on the street again in three months' time, you know that you have recorded when they have arrived and then you will be able to send them home because they are no longer allowed to be here. There may be opportunities that we have not fully explored and not exploited. All of this we would like to have an open discussion about, because we recognise the problem, but we do not believe that this is the solution, we do not believe that it will have the consequence that people are going home and we believe that it will unfortunately hit some people, as it was not intended at all. But the law is equal for everyone, and that is why I do not give much for the questions that have been asked about whether we have examples that Danes have been affected, because of course we all have to be hit equally hard by legislation. Anything else will be discrimination.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602132552	Thank you. There's a question. Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602132555	I am pleased to hear that the rapporteur recognises the problem and is open to solutions, but I do not really think I heard anything concrete. One would like to talk a little about what we can do in the European Union, yes, but I am certainly sure that when we talk about the part that is called amending an EU directive, the rapporteur agrees that this is a very, very long-term project. But does the rapporteur now have concrete measures that we can take here in the Folketing, which will actually involve a real solution?
ParlaMint-DK_20170602132627	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602132628	I actually mentioned some. I mentioned that we could enter into dialogue with the embassies of Romania and Bulgaria. We could set up these transit centres, which have also been mentioned. One might consider the possibility of registering people who come here so that they are at least only here for the three months they are legally resident. It was actually quite specific. There may be other good ideas. We haven't had such a crazy long time to prepare for this debate, but that was perhaps a reason why we could meet after the summer and discuss whether there could be other solutions. But the fact that I cannot put forward a catalogue of 25 fantastic proposals does not mean that I am going to vote in favour of a proposal which I do not think is reasonable in relation to the Danish homeless and which I do not think has the intended effect either, namely to ensure that the homeless return home. They're not going home. They're just being locked up in Denmark, and it's also more expensive than having them on the street. It is clear that it is not so insecure, but I think that the focus should be how to get people home and not how to get people behind bars.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602132741	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602132743	I agree we need to get people home. The rapporteur says that this is a proposal we have just made. But the problem has been over several years, and this year it is an exceptionally big problem. I am sure the rapporteur agrees that we have an exceptionally large number of criminal homeless people on the streets this year. So hopefully the problem has been very obvious to the rapporteur for much, much longer than this bill. Then the rapporteur says that we can talk to the Embassy of Romania and Bulgaria. I am sure they are well aware of the problem. And with regard to a transit programme, I would actually like to commend the City of Copenhagen for already having a transit programme in which they help people return home. When it comes to registering how long people are here, I would say that the police are registering the criminal homeless they are holding when they clear a Roma camp. So these things are already happening. However, given that this problem has been going on for so long, the rapporteur must be able to make something concrete in addition to something that already exists.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602132844	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602132845	It is very difficult to make a very good concrete proposal. That is also why the government has come up with a concrete proposal which is incredibly bad. Well, I guess it's because the government recognises that this is a difficult issue that's hard to solve. That is why we are making a proposal which, of course, does not affect criminals. For the hardest-boiled criminals aren't the ones sitting on the street begging or walking around begging in the S-train. They're not the criminals. This is just an extremely difficult political area. I think it would suit us here in Parliament and that is what I have been trying to do with my rapporteur's speech and my answers after we sat down together and tried to solve the problem instead of conducting a municipal election campaign on it. I also know why it filled so much in yesterday's opening debate, which should have been about the state of the empire. And that is because there is a municipal election campaign just around the corner, and there are some, among others. The rapporteur of the Left, who thinks this should be the big issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602132947	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions. We are moving forward in the line of rapporteurs, and the next rapporteur is Mr Cryer. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602133006	Yes, it is a problem with the many foreign homeless who are currently in Denmark and who we can see on the streets, not least in Copenhagen. It is for those concerned themselves, and it is for the city, and that is why I think we certainly have to address that problem. But I must also say that I am puzzled by this draft law and, in particular, I think that the previous replies to the short comments show that it is immensely unclear what the consequences of this will be. Nobody wants to talk about Roma law, and I am, after all, pleased about that, although it was very close in some of the speeches we have heard, that is to say that this was what it was all about. But when you look at what the context is like and what the rhetoric is like, I guess that's what it's all about here. I think that the fact that there are so many ambiguities says something about the fact that it is totally irresponsible that we are dealing with this urgently, and I do not understand it either. It's a problem you've known for a long time. It has been known in previous years, it has been known earlier this year, and the government has thus had plenty of time to prepare this bill if you wanted to. Then why is it only today? This is really because it was taken up in the closing debate the other day, and one has then, like speeded up some process: now we have to have something rather than satisfy, if we can say so, the position that something has to be done now. And this is an expression of how you want to signal that something has to be done. That is understandable, but it is also understandable that we are some who want what is then done to be better thought-through than this. Because what we are talking about here is that there is a duty of warning on the part of the police that is being removed and that there is a penalty that is being set up. It's two things, and everyone wants to know that that's not what's gonna solve this. Well, if you think it's gonna solve this, you're more naive than the law allows, if I may say so. There's more to it than that. And we are certainly willing to look at various actions in connection with this. The government's been out with some suggestions about fast tracks, I understand, and things like that. This will be discussed, and we will also be discussing it if you can have a discussion of this bill, where there are other ideas coming in from experts and we will look into it. But if you think it is so urgent, the government could have done it a month ago, so that we could have got the whole bouquet, if I may say so, when we deal with this. For various reasons, however, it has not been possible to do so, because one has actually been pressured into showing decisiveness, not least since the Danish People's Party called for it during the closing debate. So we are aware of the problem and we are willing to discuss it, but it has to be done properly, it has to be done objectively and not done through urgent legislation, as is the case here, where it is populism rather than the will to solve the problems that are behind it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602133349	There are two questions. Sir. Nase Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602133352	Thank you. I think the rapporteur is skipping something important. The fact that it was mentioned in the closing debate has not come out of thin air. This is something that the mayor of Copenhagen, among others, has called for. This is a huge problem in Copenhagen, and Mayor Frank Jensen has asked the government for help, and that is what we are doing now. It's not populism. We have a problem and we are trying to come up with a solution to the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602133436	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602133438	Yeah, but that doesn't mean this attempt at a solution is particularly good. My point was that this isn't a solution to anything. It is not a solution to anything, that we no longer have to give warnings and that we can send them 14 days in prison. I also understand a little from the remarks to the bill that what I think is the thinking behind this bill is that it will have some sort of preventive effect, so that if you're out around Europe like knowing that you can go to jail for 14 days to beg here in Denmark, then you don't come. I do not know, so I have my very strong doubts about it, and at least I think that the effects of it, i.e. the consequences, are in the direction of hitting all sorts of others, and that you really, really, seriously criminalise ordinary betting not everywhere, but in some places. And so it is with a lot of obscene remarks that it must be insecure and so on that no one really knows what really means.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602133549	Sir. Nase Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602133551	So the rapporteur disagrees with the Mayor of Copenhagen that there is a huge problem in Copenhagen, and that is why we should just ignore the request from the mayor and say that there are no problems. Is that what the rapporteur is saying?
ParlaMint-DK_20170602133609	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602133610	I think, sir. Nase Khader should knock out his ears and listen to what they say. I recognise that this is a problem, as I have said several times, and it is untimely to say that I am not listening to what was said by Frank Jensen. I say that it is but it is not the same as saying that this is the urgent procedure for a legislative proposal that is much more driven by populism than by objective thought with which we must resolve it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602133646	Then it's mr. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602133648	Now the rapporteur has just repeated that this is driven by populism, and the rapporteur said earlier that this is something we have just shook out of our sleeve here and now. More than a year ago, I think it was last February that we were in negotiations where, among other things, we were in negotiations. The Left put up with exactly this because we thought there was a problem at the time, and that problem has only grown bigger. In other words, we proposed 14 days of unconditional punishment for betlery, and there was so, among other things. The social democracy, which at that time was against it, and therefore it only became a small strengthening of the penal framework. This isn't something we just shook out of our sleeve. This is a proposal that we on the Left have made in the past and for which we have also had support, but just not enough support. So it's a re-submission, at least part of the bill, you can say. Compared to what Mr. Nas Khader says, I am pleased to hear that the rapporteur also agrees with the Mayor of Copenhagen that we have a problem. But when the mayor goes out and says that this bill is actually a good idea, that is, that the solution is a good idea... it's supported by the Social Democratic Party... and that we have a problem, what the rapporteur agrees there is, how can he, as the supreme authority in Copenhagen, be so wrong about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170602133808	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602133811	I'm not supposed to be able to tell you why Social Democrats can be wrong about that, so I could give a lot of lectures, and I don't think that's the job here today, right? Well, I don't think I should be charged with that. I agree with Frank Jensen that this should be addressed, but I just think that there are so many ambiguities in this bill and that it is so wrong that, as in the case of last year, we do not agree with it. But that does not mean that we will not discuss other measures, and I understand that the government actually has some other things in the bag, and we are willing to discuss that. Why not put us together? It doesn't have to be after the summer holidays, it can also be before the summer holidays, i.e. here in June, and get a package like this that is much more thoughtful and well worked out about this problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20170602133912	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602133913	Allow me to ask another question: does the rapporteur have the impression that the Mayor of Copenhagen, the Supreme Authority of Copenhagen, and the Mayor of Copenhagen and the Left of Copenhagen think this is a good legislative proposal? Well, they're sitting around somebody with the problem. So does it not just make a little impression on the rapporteur that all these people from the City of Copenhagen are saying that this is a good proposal? That's one. I would just like to ask you something else very briefly. I am glad that the rapporteur is open to other proposals, but what will be the rapporteur's best proposals here and now under the auspices of Parliament for what we can do to resolve the problem? If this is not the case, what does the rapporteur think is the best offer?
ParlaMint-DK_20170602133955	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602133956	It's like, and maybe it's the worst part of this... that there's some premise that we're gonna have to act now. And that is why the Folketing must adopt legislation in such an extraordinary way before we go home. This really requires such urgent legislation, which is usually implemented when the country is in deep crisis or when there are some taxes to be implemented; such things. But there are many things that can be done, and that is why I think that instead of asking that question, we can ask: how can we find common ideas, proposals and measures that have an effect? It is not certain that everything must necessarily be legislation, is it? So that is a much wiser way of doing it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602134044	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Nase Khader, Conservative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602134053	We have a huge problem in Copenhagen, and we have had it for a long time: visitors who come here camp in public places, especially in the Copenhagen area, and this creates insecurity for law-abiding citizens. There's been a demand for action, and that's what we're trying to do with this. Law-abiding citizens will not put up with it. Neither will we. On 1 April, the government introduced new rules enabling the police to intervene effectively in relation to camps. At the same time, we have also ensured that the police make a very significant effort in this area. So far, the Copenhagen Police have cleared over 25 camps, and about 84 people have been charged for the first 3 months. 3 has been expelled from Denmark and this shows that there are some tools. Now we are sharpening the tools even more. One of the initiatives is that today's opportunities for the police to extend and strengthen zone bans are being extended to larger geographical areas than they are today. The police are also given the opportunity to ban zones for the first time they violate the rules. Today, more warnings are needed first. And then the so-called fast track system is put in place, where the authorities, in cooperation with the immigration authorities, are examining the possibility of establishing a fast track system so that we can immediately test whether the person has any basis for residence here in Denmark, so that he can be effectively expelled. Then we must also bear in mind that this is a problem which is also known in other European countries. That is why it is extremely important that we discuss this with the other European countries, and I understand that the Minister for Justice, together with the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, is addressing the issue to their European colleagues so that we can work together to resolve this growing problem. All in all, we think this is sensible and we, the Conservative People's Party, support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602134333	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no questions, nor are there any more rapporteurs, and so it is the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602134343	Thank you for that and thank you for the predominantly positive attitude to this in the speeches we have heard today. It is a clear priority for the government to take action against foreign visitors who camp in public places and who, at their stay, create insecurity and discomfort for both residents and passers-by. As Minister of Justice, I am ready to go a long way to ensure our security, and what we are currently witnessing in Copenhagen does not belong in our society at all. The government has already taken a number of steps to put an end to these insecurities, but it is the government's assessment that there is a need to be able to strengthen the efforts quickly. Some of the people who are staying in these insecure camps feed themselves, among other things. By begging. It is particularly disturbing for other people to be subjected to begging in pedestrian streets, stations, and public transportation. It is insecure and we must take action against it. It is therefore proposed first of all to remove the demand for warning from the police as a condition for punishment when begging is committed in a pedestrian street, at stations and in public transport. This will give the police better opportunities for effective action against begging, as the penalty will therefore not be conditional on the police first issuing and registering a warning and then finding a new case of begging. Secondly, it is proposed that when the penalty is laid down it should be taken as an aggravating circumstance that the begging has been committed in one of these places, and in these cases the penalty would be based on 14 days of unconditional imprisonment for the first time. It is clear to potential visitors and others that insecurity-building begging is totally unacceptable. But this punishment must not be left alone. As you know, on 1 April of this year, we introduced new rules which provide the police with a tool to deal with insecure camps in public spaces. Those rules mean that the establishment and stay of such camps can now be fined and that zone bans can be imposed on persons who have repeatedly violated the rules. So far, the Copenhagen Police have cleared 25 camps this year, 20 of them since the new rules came into force after 1 April. So the fight against the camps is a priority on the part of the police, and it will continue to do so in the future. In addition to these new rules and the legislative proposal I have tabled today, we will look at a number of further measures. We will look at the possibilities of extending the rules on zone bans. Firstly, we are looking at how the zoning ban can be extended geographically to larger areas than it is today, and secondly, we are looking at whether the police can announce a zoning ban, already the first time the ban on the establishment of unsafe camps in public spaces is being violated. We are also looking at the fast track system; we are looking at the possibilities of quickly clarifying whether people who are being found in this country have a residence base in Denmark, and at the same time we are working to ensure that expulsion is as effective as possible. The problem of insecurity-building camps is not a purely Danish problem. It is also a problem known in our neighbouring countries and several EU countries, and in addition, some of the people who set up the camps are people from other EU countries. That is why, together with the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, I would like to address the issue to our European colleagues, because I must also be honest and say that when it comes to the residence directive and expulsion and exit, and how all this is going on, it is my good colleague, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, who has it as a resort. But with these comments, I would like to thank you for your speeches and look forward to further consideration and, of course, I am available for any questions that may come during the committee's work.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602134755	So far there are at least three people in this Chamber who have questions, and the first is Mr. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602134802	Thank you. Of course, on behalf of the Danish People's Party, I would like to acknowledge that the government has made the bill and also intends to launch a number of other initiatives and take it up at EU level. We think it is very good that something is happening on that front. Then I would like to ask whether the Minister of Justice will be prepared to tighten up the legislative proposal further. For example, one might have to punish more severely than the two weeks that are being set up. But more importantly, it could be that one should look at how to make it easier to expel foreign nationals when they are punished for begging. So is this something that the Minister of Justice will take a positive view of in committee?
ParlaMint-DK_20170602134843	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602134845	I would like to take a positive view of this. With regard to raising the penalty further, it may well happen that we will have a challenge in terms of proportionality, but we will have to discuss that. As far as the expulsion issue is concerned, I certainly have to get my good colleague in on it, because it is not my area of responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602134902	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602134903	Thank you. Am I to understand that the Minister of Justice is prepared to make it easier to expel? Now all we need is for the Minister of Foreign Affairs to be prepared for it too; then there is a majority for it in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602134916	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602134918	Within the applicable rules and how far we can push them I'm ready for quite a lot. Because it's basically shocking, and it's almost unbearable that we have to look at what we see. And the answer cannot simply be that we should try to change the EU rules. I agree that we must do so in the long term. We shall try to look at it in the long term, but it cannot just be the answer here and now, because then I think we will become impatient. If there are any good proposals from the Danish People's Party, and I am sure there are also some that we can keep within the EU rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602134951	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602134954	There has been some ambiguity in the debate, it has to be said, about what this bill is really about. And that is why I would like to ask the Minister for Justice whether this proposal will hit a Danish homeless person who raises the cup or hand rather than earn a coin to buy a cup of coffee for.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602135016	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602135017	Yeah, it can. I would, of course, find that a pity, because that is not why we are introducing it. But it can. This affects everyone, the law is the same for everyone, and it is a pity that we have come to the point where we have to impose a penalty in this area. Then I'll just remind you that it's illegal today. It's illegal today to beg. Now it's just that the law today says you have to have a warning first, and the second time you can be punished with conditional prison. So it can hit anyone. Unfortunately, that is what happens when there is something you have to take extra hold of. Then it can happen. It also requires, of course, that some report it, that some see it, that some intervene. It's a requirement of most crime. This may also apply to the example described there by the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602135111	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602135112	So, if you have the view that we in Denmark have had old-fashioned hobos and homeless people for a number of years, where we have been able to make it work, then it has to be said that these people will also be affected by the constraints of this bill. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20170602135130	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602135135	Everyone gets hit because begging is illegal even today. So it is the case that a lot of Danish homeless people at least also sell house past. It's a way to get money, and it's legal. It's buying and selling, it's not begging. Some people are also doing a job and getting paid for it. It's not illegal either. I just have to say that yes, this can hit them, which I guess we're all thinking we don't want to hit. But I just have to say that out here, right out here behind these thick walls, there are people who every day experience this as a huge problem and who are exposed to some people who are quite aggressive. After all, we cannot write a bill in which we discriminate, and neither should we. That's why this is hard, I acknowledge, but I don't see any other way.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602135216	Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602135219	Is it the view of the Minister for Justice that there is begging in Denmark that is not insecure?
ParlaMint-DK_20170602135229	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602135230	You can always discuss what is insecure. Now it is something that is stated in the comments because we would like to draw attention to what we really want to do with this bill. I fully agree that we can, of course, have different views on this. Is it not safe to have someone with a cup in front of you? Yes, it may be for some, and for others it will not be. I am really just saying that right now we are seeing an ever-increasing problem, but with what we have seen in the past, it just doesn't hold up. That is why we are intervening with this bill and a whole series of other things, and it is of course a pity that it has come to that, but I see no other option.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602135307	Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602135310	So I have a great deal of sympathy for that. We are also happy to take action against what can be a source of insecurity. The problem is simply that it is all fixed on the concept of insecurity-building, but that in the legal text, in the paragraphs themselves, there is nothing about insecurity-building begging, and when both the Conservatives' rapporteur and the Social Democrat's rapporteur are so positive about this with the insecurity-building, I just find it hard to see how the bill is going to solve the problem. How do we assess what is insecurity-building if it is not in the legislative text? How, then, can the police enforce the law? Who will assess what is insecurity-building? And how can it even be used if it is not provided for in the legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20170602135401	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602135402	In the comments we send out a clear and clear signal as to what we want to do with this, but that is precisely not in the legislative text, because then we would start to discriminate. Well, this is a punishment for begging over, done! That's what it is. Then we know that in reality there are some things we would like to address right here and now, and that is what we are trying to do. I'm the first to say that this has a lot of dilemmas. I just can't stand by and look at what we've been through for a long time for, among other things. The streets of Copenhagen, where you see a very aggressive form of begging, where you see people who use streets and streets as toilets and where camps are being formed etc. I think we simply have to address that. That's why we're doing this. It's not that we're particularly bad people. It is simply because we have to do something here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602135452	Mrs. Zenia Stamp.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602135454	In fact, the question I am going to ask here is not so much directed at the Minister for Justice, but he serves a purpose for my question, it is more directed at the Social Democracy, which is then not present here. However, in connection with the closing debate, their President said: '... I have been against a change of law which would mean that a Danish homeless person who sticks the cup or hand rather than earn a coin to buy a cup of coffee would be criminalised. If we can avoid that, of course, there is support on our part..... So I would just like to ask: can this be avoided by the proposal before us?
ParlaMint-DK_20170602135527	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602135529	No.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602135531	Mrs. Zenia Stamp.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602135533	[Sound out]... Thank you for that answer, which is why it is so unfortunate that the Social Democrats are not present now, but we will then have to ask them and say that the premise put forward by their President cannot be fulfilled. But they still intend to vote in favour, as far as I understand, so I will certainly drill in and probably to the great pleasure of the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602135552	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602135555	No, not for much pleasure, but of course I'll consider what's going to happen. But I look forward to having this adopted. Don't hide it. And I can just repeat: honestly, I think everyone in here would want the thing about sticking out the cup to be okay, but that is, law is law, and law must be kept, and the law applies to everyone, and that must be the case. Begging is illegal today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602135619	That was the last word from the Minister of Justice today, at least. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170602135635	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Wednesday 14 June 2017 at 6 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
