ParlaMint-DK_20170331100003	The meeting is open. For Parliament's agenda today, Friday 31 March 2017, there are the following reviews. On the basis of the many presentations I shall not read out the titles, I will mention only the numbers. Peter Kofod Poulsen (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 112 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the legalization of pepper sprays for self-defence in the context of legal guardianship in his own home) and motion for a resolution No. B 137 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the establishment of a youth court for young people from 12 to 17 years of age and the reduction of the low age criminality to 12 years of age). Finn Sørensen (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 113 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the right to early retirement from the labour market). Torsten Gejl (ALT) and Finn Sørensen (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 114 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on early retirement as a permanent right which cannot be subsequently withdrawn). Christian Juhl (EL) and Karsten Hønge (SF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 115 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on equality between physical and mental health and safety at work). Alex Ahrendtsen (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 116 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the setting up of a Committee on Grades to examine the 7-step scale of the Danish education system with a view to modernisation) and motion for a resolution No. B 136 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the strengthening of the enforcement of intellectual property rights (IP rights)). Carolina Magdalene Maier (ALT) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 117 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the gender-neutralisation of social security numbers). Carolina Magdalene Maier (ALT), Stine Brix (EL), Marianne Jelved (RV) and Kirsten Normann Andersen (SF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 118 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution allowing men having sex with men to donate blood). Carolina Magdalene Maier (ALT) and Stine Brix (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 119 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the recognition of the legal sex of persons in the Children's Act). Karsten Hønge (SF) and Jacob Mark (SF): Motion for a resolution No. B 120 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on entitlement to early retirement pensions for worn-out persons in the labour market). Christian Langballe (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 121 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution repealing the provisions on dual nationality). Kim Christiansen (DF) and Karsten Hønge (SF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 122 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a licensing system for parking companies and compulsory training of parking attendants). Kaare Dybvad (S) and Søren Egge Rasmussen (EL) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 123 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the identification of the extent of foreign purchases of rental property in Denmark). Pia Adelsteen (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 124 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution amending the notice on action against rats). Pernille Schnoor (ALT) and Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT): Motion for a resolution No. B 125 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the creation of advisory teams and support for complementary health care centres). Peter Kofod Poulsen (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 126 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the protection of employees in the institutions of criminal justice). Lisbeth Bech Poulsen (SF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 127 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the establishment of a mortgage institution for loans to owner-occupied dwellings and commercial property in outlying areas). Holger K. Nielsen (SF) and Jacob Mark (SF): Motion for a resolution No. B 128 (Proposal for a resolution on compulsory education in human rights, including equality and women's rights) and motion for a resolution No. B 135 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the creation of a community support pool for local integration houses). Rune Lund (EL), Trine Bramsen (S) and Lisbeth Bech Poulsen (SF): Motion for a resolution No. B 129 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the prevention of forced entry into private homes). Kirsten Normann Andersen (SF) and Jacob Mark (SF): Motion for a resolution No. Β 130 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the right of treatment for type 1 diabetes) and motion for a resolution No. B 139 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on permanent teams in municipal home care). Christian Poll (ALT) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 131 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on Danish contributions to the cost-effective prevention of climate change through the conservation of rain forest) and motion for a resolution No. B 142 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the cessation of pesticide use in public areas). Pernille Schnoor (ALT) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 132 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the increase in tobacco tax). Søren Egge Rasmussen (EL), Roger Matthisen (ALT) and Kirsten Normann Andersen (SF): Motion for a resolution No. B 133 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the abolition of tax advantages for parental buying apartments). Jacob Mark (SF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 134 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the possibility for post-schools to receive a supplementary allowance for Danish education for refugee children without permanent residence permit). Kenneth Kristensen Berth (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 138 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the renegotiation of the rebate for Danish EU membership). Jacob Mark (SF) and Kirsten Normann Andersen (SF): Motion for a resolution No. B 140 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a national study of the well-being of students in higher education). Jakob Sølvhøj (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 143 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the fixing of a ceiling for parental pay in school freetime schemes). Nikolaj Villumsen (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 144 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the Government's announcement to the European Union that negotiations on Turkey's accession to the European Union should be suspended temporarily until democratic rights are guaranteed). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). Now I think we have made sure that at least the ministers have a bit of work to do in the spring.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331100306	The debate is open. The first to speak is the acting Minister for Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331100333	Thank you for that, President. With this resolution, the Radical Left wants to legalize cannabis as a drug in a 3-year trial period. Legalisation means that the ban we have today must be lifted. The government does not want to lift the ban on cannabis as a drug, even in an attempt. There are four reasons why the government does not want that. First of all, there are harmful effects from using cannabis as a drug. Secondly, we believe that the ban that exists contributes to prevention. Thirdly, we think it is doubtful whether legalisation will have any appreciable effect on the organised criminal environments. Fourthly, legalisation would actually run counter to Denmark's international obligations. Let me take the first point, namely the damage. The harmful effects are briefly mentioned in the observations made in the motion for a resolution. But I have to say that perhaps not so much has been done in the comments. I'm a little upset because I find that the damage is serious. I won't spend my time recounting all the damage. However, I would just like to highlight a few examples which highlight the seriousness of the damage. Individual rushes can lead to the risk of anxiety, panic and psychotic reactions. Prolonged use leads to an increased risk of mental illness and, of course, mentally vulnerable persons are particularly at risk in this situation. Young people are also particularly vulnerable. This is particularly true of young people with social problems. Then the individual russ carries the risk of impairment of learning ability. With daily use, a constant reduction in intellectual and practical ability is seen. It goes without saying that it is quite incompatible with one's education if one is in education, and the use of cannabis therefore has far-reaching consequences for the individual. As far as prevention is concerned, it is very briefly mentioned in the motion for a resolution. Not much has been done about that either. It must be understood that, in the opinion of the Radical Left, prevention is at risk. I have to say that, according to the Danish Health Authority, this is at least the opposite, because the ban we have is supposed to contribute quite significantly to prevention efforts. This is because the fact that you have a ban, everything else equal reduces the availability of cannabis, and that the ban also sends a very, very clear signal that cannabis is dangerous and that cannabis can cause damage. Then there is the question of the criminal environments. Contrary to the damage and prevention efforts, the motion for a resolution actually makes a great deal of reference to the organized criminal environments. The pretext for the proposal seems to be that legalisation of cannabis will have a noticeable effect on organised criminal environments. Now I have to be careful about criminality and the fight against crime, but I have to point out that, in the opinion of the Ministry of Justice at least, it is very doubtful whether legalisation will have a noticeable effect on the organised criminal environments. The Ministry of Justice is also of the opinion that even if legalisation would have some effect on these environments, the effect should not outweigh the harmful effects of increased use of cannabis. Finally, there are the international commitments I mentioned. It is the case that cannabis is covered by the first of the three UN drug conventions. Substances covered by the Convention may only be held for medical and scientific purposes. Legalisation, i.e. the lifting of the ban on cannabis as a drug, would, in the view of the government, be contrary to the Convention and would therefore be contrary to Denmark's international obligations. This also applies, even if legalisation only, as the proposal here refers to, was to be carried out as an experiment. So there are several reasons why the government wants to maintain the ban on cannabis as a drug. The four reasons I have explained here are all important. But most important to me is the harmful effects of using cannabis as a drug. In fact, it is because of the harmful effects that cannabis was once included in the United Nations Convention on Drugs and thus also in our own legislation on drugs. Against this background, the government cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331100900	There is a brief comment from Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331100910	Thank you to the Minister for that. I think I would like to start by saying that we have many international obligations, among others. It was also an international obligation through the WHO that we should have transpersonals in Chapter 5 of the ICD-10 system, that is to say the list of mental illnesses, and Denmark took the lead and showed that we could therefore break with it. It was just to make a nuance. I do not think anyone doubts that smoking hashish is harmful and dangerous. In 2010, there were 7.2%. young people between 16 and 24 who smoked hash daily, and 4 years later, in 2014, it had risen to 10.2%. So we have a problem, and the argument that a ban is reducing or preventive when it comes to young people smoking hashish, does not seem to me to be supported by these figures. Then the Minister could not be ready to try something new that might break this trend, for example. a legalisation where we can use the funds that go into the sale to do targeted prevention specifically for the young people in this group?
ParlaMint-DK_20170331101016	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331101018	I must start by saying that I am fully aware of the increase we see in the use of cannabis among young people. This is extremely worrying, and I also find it extremely worrying to see it in the education sector, in other words in youth education. And now that there is a ban, and it is, in fact, indisputablely clear that it is forbidden, including possession of it, I would just like to urge once again here that you, as a leader of a youth education institution, also take responsibility for yourself and ensure that there are clear guidelines on how to deal with a knowledge that cannabis is used among young people, because it is not permitted to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331101100	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331101102	But it's not hard to get hold of me now, I live at Christianshavn, and the minister has his office right around the corner, and we know from that part of town at least that you can simply walk on Christiania or around the corner down to the violence and buy what you want, and that will always be my argument. But let it go. Another element that I think is in favour of legalisation is the prospect of crime. It is the case that in the Colorado, where they have legalised cannabis, in 2010 there were 30,000 citizens charged with the crime of hashish. In 2014, after legalisation, the figure had fallen to 2,500 citizens who were charged with crime that is hashish-related. Could it not be an argument that we can simply reduce the rate of crime, particularly in relation to the environments where there are many problems with rocker-gang crime related to hashish?
ParlaMint-DK_20170331101159	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331101200	I am not naive, and I know that you don't even have to go to Christianshavn to meet drug dealers who are constantly selling banned drugs. I find this extremely worrying and I do not believe that legalisation will make this kind of criminal behaviour disappear. Rocker gang environments have criminal behavior, regardless of what the legislation is like, and when you look at the figures, including those from the Netherlands, there is no indication that it all has a criminal dampening effect to start legalizing it. So no, I simply do not believe that this is the way, and the harmful effects, i.e. the effect of cannabis use, are all the other things that I, as a working minister of health, naturally take as my starting point.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331101249	Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331101252	There are today too many young people who have an abuse of hashish, and that is a problem. That's not what we're discussing. What we have to discuss here is what is the best we can do; what works. That is why I hope to present this motion for a resolution that we should not just repeat the same debate that we have had a hundred times before, but that we could actually qualify the debate. That is why we are proposing to do a legislative preparatory work, so that the Ministry gets the chance to talk to the leading experts in this area and develop the best model, for example. in terms of helping young people to the best of their ability out of abuse. Is it not a good idea, acting Minister for Health, that we jointly qualify how to do this in the wisest way?
ParlaMint-DK_20170331101340	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331101341	Basically, we in the government are just not supporters of the legalisation of hashish. We believe that we are also internationally committed, and we do not believe that legalisation will reduce consumption. That is why it is true that we continue to have a problem of the damage caused by the use of hashish, especially among young people. It is very worrying that we are seeing this increase, and it is also extremely worrying that we are witnessing what I might consider a little like a laissez faire attitude among school leaders. Fortunately, some people are taking the lead. There are some who really take care of this issue and who are very, very clear ambassadors and very, very clear leaders of the youth institution for which they are now responsible and who say: This has to stop, dear young people, you have to know something about the effect it has on your brains. Young people need to know what impact they have when they are young people in development and are also in a learning situation where the brain has to be ready for learning and to be in learning development. So no, we do not think that we should start legislative preparatory work with the aim of legalising hashish, but we would like to have ongoing discussions on how to ensure information and how to ensure enforcement.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331101501	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331101503	The Minister says that the government does not believe that making such an attempt can reduce consumption. But wouldn't it be good if we got past just what we mean and then figured out what actually works, so got the lead experts' bids on how to do this in a smart way, so that it's not just a question of what we think, but so it's a question of what we know works?
ParlaMint-DK_20170331101530	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331101531	I fully agree that, in political terms, care should be taken to drive only on emotions and that we should, to a large extent, be guided by reason. So it's not just because the government seems or senses something. We are also looking at the experience of the countries that have tried to legalise, and it is certainly not possible to see that consumption is declining rather on the contrary. Just look to Holland, consumption is not falling. And that is what worries me about the damage. Then you can start a discussion on how smoking and alcohol are going to work, because I must promise that we here in the Danish Parliament have taken a lot of initiatives just to see what effects our health is having.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331101616	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331101619	I would like to say that I certainly do not support the fact that there are people who have to live as abusers of hashish. Nor do I think that the discussion is black and white, so I can sympathise with the arguments put forward by the Minister. However, I think that there is another side to this issue as well. We know what we have, and things aren't going very well. Despite all these attitudes that we have now adopted, and despite the criminalisation of hashish, we still have the problem of increasing the number of addicts. This obscure environment also means that we do not know what kind of products are being sold, and the lack of transparency means that it will be very difficult to get in touch with young people who have an abuse. So if you imagined that we would both collect the profits and at the same time create the openness that enabled us to enter into a dialogue with young people and avoid criminalising them, could you not imagine that this could have the preventive effect that we are calling for and have not succeeded in doing?
ParlaMint-DK_20170331101721	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331101724	I simply do not agree with the approach to the issue we have. Because we can probably agree on that, and we are that it is a problem that there is such an abuse, especially among young people. Some of what I think we have done quite sensibly here in the Danish Parliament and it was then under the auspices of the rate pool was to look at how cannabis can help in a medical context. I understand that's not what we're discussing, but it's just to say that this looking at what this drug can do can probably be helpful in relation to some particularly affected people, and we're now trying to do that. But to begin to think that young people's abuse problems are likely to disappear by legalisation among the proposers, I would just like to strongly warn against that. That's why we're very clear in government. We say that we do not believe that the legalisation of cannabis is the solution to the problems we have with the major abuse that is happening today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331101826	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331101828	I do not imagine that you can simply get rid of the abuse by legalizing cannabis, but I still imagine that you might be able to get some more knowledge of what it is for some products. I have also seen young people in a psychiatric hospital who were seriously injured by the abuse of cannabis. But we do not know what kind of products the young people are actually using. After all, there are different kinds of hashish, and we have no way of controlling young people's consumption or gaining knowledge about young people's consumption or using our knowledge to prevent them from using hashish at all. So could it not be imagined that this knowledge could be important to us in terms of real prevention?
ParlaMint-DK_20170331101910	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331101912	But I simply do not agree that we do not have knowledge of the harmful effects of using hashish. We have quite a solid knowledge of that. The Danish Health Authority has been continuously reporting on the harmful effects by 2013 at the latest, so we have a lot of knowledge about it. Therefore, legalisation is not the way to go in relation to the problem of abuse and effects. And, like Mrs Kirsten Normann, I have also met a great many of the young people who are affected by hash psychoses to a great extent, so that they are really unhappy on behalf of the young people and on behalf of their families, compared to what the way is out, once the brain is more or less melted down because of that abuse.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331101958	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331102001	That is not what Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen says. We are all aware that hash, cannabis, has some harmful effects. What the debate is really about is whether the way in which the problem has been tackled by means of a ban strategy has worked. For example, if it has given us fewer addicts, it has. Got fewer people smoking weed? We cannot see that, but we can see in return that bikers and gangs, which we are currently discussing a lot, have golden income opportunities in this. They earn millions and millions of dollars every year on the hash trade that is taking place. That is to say, the moment we got a legalization of course a controlled legalisation, because we need to be clear that the product that is then sold must be of the right quality, and there must be a prevention effort that is combined with that, so we would immediately cut a substantial part of the funding that rockers and gangs have today. Doesn't the Minister agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20170331102109	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331102111	At any rate, I agree that it is extremely worrying that biker and gang environments in this way should be used by Mr. Rune Lund's expression has crowned days in terms of how they act in the criminal environment. But that does not make me say that the solution to crime is to legalise something we de facto know is harmful. It doesn't add up in my optics. I understand that this is an attempt to do something about crime. As far as the other Member States are concerned, which are trying to do so, it cannot be demonstrated that the use is falling, and it cannot be said that it is good, that the prevention efforts have improved, or that the abuse or consumption is decreasing. You can't prove that. Nor can it be shown that crime in the countries concerned, such as the Netherlands, is falling. So it's just not the right tool. Should we then continue to discuss what we are doing with the problem that more young people are abusers? Yes, we must continue to do so, and that is why, in my answer, I actually spend a little time actually pinpointing the problem of youth education and wishing to be very, very clear about the fact that it is prohibited and that we must therefore enforce the bans that we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331102237	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331102238	But we also have examples from the studies that have been carried out that, when there has been legalisation in other countries, consumption has not increased, and that is also interesting information. With legalization, for example, we can. get better information, get products that, when sold, are clean and that are of better quality and are not dangerous to the people who use them, and at the same time we can cut funding for the rockers and the gangs. We've been talking about bikers and gangs for months and years because it's a huge problem and they have golden days with the revenue they get from the hash. The moment we legalize it, it dries out its source of income. Then it is true that there are other ways to make money when you are a hardcore criminal and organised criminal. That is true, but all other things being equal, we take a substantial part of their income from those revenue that comes in the treasury, revenue that can be used for prevention, revenue that can also be used to improve the common welfare of all of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331102337	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331102339	I have also followed the line of argument used in this motion for a resolution, and there is a great deal of emphasis here on decriminalisation, but one just cannot clearly show that crime is falling and that consumption is falling in the places where legalisation is attempted. I'm glad to hear that Mr. Knox... Mr. Rune Lund acknowledges that if we were to cut the source of income from the criminal environment, we wouldn't have to imagine it. Rune Lund also didn't see that hard-boiled criminals in the biker and gang environments would join the job center and get a legal job. It would be fantastic if the biker and gang environment were oriented in that direction instead, but the means to get there is not a legalisation. I attach importance to this, and I have done so both in my speech in relation to the rejection of the motion for a resolution and in the discussion here on 1) the damage and 2) our international obligations. It is for me to see primarily the harm that is the clearest justification for the refusal to legalise cannabis.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331102446	Thank you, Minister. There are no more questions or comments at least in this round. So we move on to the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party, sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331102456	Thank you for that, President. It is in the social democratic DNA to fight for equal opportunities. Whoever you are, you have to have the opportunity to realise your potential, and that is why we have a strong focus on lifting those people and those families that are not as resourceful as others, and that is why we are fighting to get all young people through our education system, so that everyone is equipped to enter adulthood, whether it is with a letter in his hand from a technical school or whether it is a diploma from high school. Today, we are dealing first with a resolution requiring the government to initiate a legislative preparatory work which will result in a legislative proposal that legalises cannabis during a 3-year trial period in a model where state-controlled sales are legal and where Danes are given the right to smoke, buy and store cannabis for their own consumption. Social democracy is concerned about the health effects of the proposal, and we are concerned about the impact that it will have on vulnerable young people and their learning, their apostasy on youth education and the development of mental problems, and therefore we cannot support the bill. For vulnerable young people with little well-being in school, social or at home are also those who are more likely to start hashish consumption in early teenage years if cannabis is legalised and for them, hash abuse can be fatal in relation to their future, their education, work and social and economic position in society in the future. We know that intellectual and practical functionality will be constantly reduced by the daily use of cannabis, which has an impact on learning and education, and we know that if cannabis use is started already in the teenage years, there is a risk that the cognitive level of function will not be fully recovered when we stop using hashish. The long-term and frequent use of cannabis will therefore often hamper a person's development in terms of education and work, which is particularly important in relation to young people and the maintenance of education. There is strong evidence that increasing use of cannabis leads to an increasing risk of cessation of education and thus potentially being parked on the sidelines of society. It is the socialist concern that drives our position on this motion for a resolution. However, this does not mean that social democracy is closing its ears to development and new knowledge. We are very aware that other countries and some American states have introduced legalisation or decriminalisation of drugs. These are schemes whose social consequences we keep a close eye on. But that does not change the fact that we cannot support this bill on the grounds of health consequences and young people, their education and their further progress in life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331102816	There is a brief comment from Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331102819	Thank you to the rapporteur. In his rapporteur's speech, the rapporteur says that if we legalise cannabis, there will be more young people smoking cannabis. That is the rapporteur's claim. I would just like to ask what the rapporteur is basing that claim on. For the experience of Colorado, 17,000 young people have been asked that the level is exactly the same as it was before legalization. So what are the facts, what is the knowledge on which the rapporteur bases that claim?
ParlaMint-DK_20170331102854	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331102856	In conclusion, I said in my rapporteur's speech that we are watching very closely the experiences drawn elsewhere from the models they are now putting forward in the countries or states of America where legalisation is being carried out. I think we have been constantly supported, also through the Danish Health Authority's attention here in Denmark, that the risk is present if you legalize it. I am completely in line with what the Minister said earlier, that if there is no ban, yes, there is no ban, then there is openness, and that means that the arguments in relation to teenagers and others are not present, in relation to the fact that they should stay away from hashish and other drugs. And I would very much like to be able to present the documentation here, but my clearest answer is that it is supported by the recommendations that lie and, as the Minister also mentioned, by the Health Authority.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331103000	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331103002	But it will be a claim that has just not been documented. That is to say, it will be a claim which will not look at the experience of Colorado, which I have just referred to, where it has been seen clearly among 17 000 young people, that consumption has not increased. Then it is remarkable that you keep saying that it will probably increase if we legalize it. It has been legalized here, and it has been said to all people: it is allowed. The signal is that it is allowed and yet consumption has not increased among young people. That's remarkable. But I would like to use my second question for something else. It is not unknown that social democracy's own mayor in Copenhagen has several times asked the Danish Parliament to introduce an experimental model or a Copenhagen model in Copenhagen to put an end to crime in relation to the hash market. I find it worrying that the Social Democratic Group at Christiansborg is no longer listening to their own mayor in the country's largest municipality, who is, after all, the one who is facing the problems every day. So would the rapporteur not say a little bit about why it is that one does not listen more to one's own mayor in Copenhagen in relation to the concrete desire to be allowed to legalize it in the City of Copenhagen?
ParlaMint-DK_20170331103108	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331103110	I am very happy to be a Social Democrat, and I am very pleased with the breadth we have and the positions we have in Danish society. I do not know whether I should be glad that the alternative rapporteur is concerned about the socialist differences that we can have in as large and as wide a party as the Socialist party, because they are actually very well accommodated. In my rapporteur's speech here today, I have clarified where social democracy has its main concern. It deals with health and social consequences in relation to the possible legalisation of cannabis.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331103150	Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331103154	We fully agree on how important it is to do more to help young people out of abuse. That is one of the main reasons for making this proposal at all. That is why my question to the rapporteur is this: has the rapporteur ever met a young person who would like to smoke hashish and could not get it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170331103217	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331103219	That is what I think is a rather strange part of this resolution, because we all know how easily it is available. However, I have just said in my reply to the previous rapporteur that if we do legalisation, I believe that a substantial argument is being deprived of young people from using hashish and other drugs. It is not long ago that I visited a psychiatric ward where both patients and staff showed me how much abuse there is and what serious consequences it has for real, very many young people. So to the rapporteur's question about accessibility to hashish in Denmark: Christianshavn was mentioned earlier, and I live in North Jutland, in Himmerland, and I am sure that you can get hashish there to the extent you want. The problem is huge across the country, and it is here that I believe we should have an effort, and I do not think it is the right way to go with legalisation when you talk about getting fewer people to use hashish.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331103329	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331103332	However, when the rapporteur agrees that there is full access to it today, does the rapporteur still believe that it can be argued that the ban is working? That is one question. The second is: can the rapporteur perhaps see an opportunity in that if the sale is State-controlled, one will have the opportunity to go in and influence both prices, supply points, age limits and ingredients, and that in this way, together with advice and help out of the abuse, one will in fact be able to help young people better than today, where there is full availability?
ParlaMint-DK_20170331103412	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331103413	I can easily see arguments in favour, but the arguments against are considerably heavier, as we in the Social Democratic Party today assess the situation. It is very hypothetical when the rapporteur tells me that it does not work as it is today: just look at what consumption is like, just look at how there has been an increase. Just as hypothetically, what would it be like if we did not have the ban? Wouldn't we have a much greater abuse? Wouldn't we see much more harmful effects in particularly vulnerable young people? Wouldn't we see significantly more young people needing treatment in our psychiatric treatment system?
ParlaMint-DK_20170331103458	There are no more brief comments. I would like to thank Mr Seligman. Flemming Møller Mortensen. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Peter Kofod Poulsen from the Danish People's Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331103523	The purpose of the resolution we are debating now is to work to legalise cannabis during a three-year trial period, so that you can take a position before you fully legalise cannabis, and that is probably the wish of the proposers, according to a model you then choose. I can say that I think this proposal is a really, really bad idea. On the part of the Danish People's Party, we have no desire to legalise something that is deeply harmful, very, very harmful to health and which has major consequences for the people who use this substance. The Socialist rapporteur has, of course, made very clear before me about the social consequences, such a proposal may also have. I quite agree with that, but on our part we have no desire to legalise something that is so harmful and that may have such a clear social battle. This proposal sends out the very wrong signal to the young people, whom we really do not want to start using this drug. It sends out a completely wrong signal. If the Folketing adopts a proposal which sets in motion a trial period for the legalisation of cannabis, we are in a situation in which we, the legislator, say that it cannot be so harmful, because if we can start legalizing it, we are sending a very, very clear signal that it is probably not so dangerous either, if we can afford to start trying to do so. The proposal also, I think, contains the boring premise that it is believed that this will end gang crime. It is very clear from the comments that this proposal has also been put forward to try to take the air out of the gangs, and as the Danish People's Party's legal rapporteur I am happy with all the proposals that can come that can take the air out of organised crime, but I have to say that a proposal like this makes absolutely no difference. I cannot imagine that gang members from one day to the next should go and be law-abiding citizens, because some politicians at Christiansborg will suddenly take a little bit of this big market from them. What, then, are we going to discuss next? Is this the legalisation of other types of drugs, because now we have to take an even bigger bite of the gangs market from them? This is simply not going to have any effect whatsoever on the gangs that we so much want to fight. Bands are fought in a different way, but they are not combated by legalising cannabis. I also think it is worth noting, moreover, that this would probably mean if it were adopted, which I hope we will not have a dispute probably with one of Denmark's international obligations, and I think it is funny somewhere that the Radical Left is taking up this ball, because they are so concerned that we have to respect all kinds of international obligations, but just as far as cannabis is concerned, you can break it. I think that's a little special. Nor can I quite understand that parties which apparently support this are those parties which are most busy making it harder to smoke ordinary tobacco, but here we are going to go in the diametrically opposite direction of what has always been the signal. I don't understand that either. I can just say in the end that we say no to this proposal. There is no doubt for us. This is going in the wrong direction, so we cannot support it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331103859	Thank you, sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen. This gave rise to no brief comments, so we welcome Mrs Jane Heitmann from the Left, the Danish Liberal Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331103912	Thank you. Today we are debating a resolution from the Radical Left on an experimental scheme to legalise cannabis for a 3-year period with a view to a later total legalisation of cannabis. Let me say straight away that the Left does not support the proposal. However, this is an important debate: how to prevent our young people from smoking hashish. And I also understand the proposal here as an approach to raising precisely the prevention debate, because as the proposers rightly point out, it is a difficult task to ensure that fewer people start smoking hashish. That hashish is harmful to health is widely known, and especially young people who are mentally vulnerable or have social problems are at risk. On Monday I visited the fix room in Odense, and it was thought-provoking, because here come all sorts of different kinds of people. In 2016 alone, 550 drug addicts took their drug 36,000 times. And if you ask the head of the fix room, they mostly have two things in common. One is that they are raised in vulnerable and vulnerable homes, and the other is that they have started their abuse by smoking hashish. Does that mean everyone who smokes hash ends up fixing heroin and cocaine? No, but it can be a slippery slope once the first step has been taken. And it is a fact that since 2001 the number of people enrolled in treatment due to hash abuse is increasing steadily. And we know that an early debut with alcohol and cigarettes increases the risk of later use of hashish. For me, it seems quite absurd that the Radical Left is putting forward the proposal for the legalisation of hashish, that is to say, a significant softening, when at the same time it has indicated that it wants to tighten legislation on cigarettes, and even the VK Government's tobacco law was not voted in favour of simply because, according to the then radical rapporteur, common knowledge was disregarded in this area. And let me quote from the rapporteur's speech: 'What is this really about? For me, it's probably a lot about who we politicians should be. Should we be someone who gets into things and uses the knowledge we get along the way to go ahead and show the way, or should we sit and look at the mood of the people and perhaps push the knowledge we have a little into the drawer and say that it is more important that we constantly make legislation that just fits the mood of the people? I think we're gonna leave that picture for a second. And let me also focus for a moment on the young people and the knowledge we actually have, so that we do not allow ourselves to be seduced by the moods of the people or by ignorance. Cannabis is primarily used by young people, and if you look at who gets into drug abuse treatment, then it was among the 18-24-year-olds in 2011 as much as 80% who had hashish as the main drug. And it is documented that the use of cannabis can provoke, maintain and worsen symptoms in people with e.g. schizophrenia. Cannabis is not an innocent drug. And I am truly saddened when I hear about young people who do not manage school and drop out because of a hash abuse, because learning ability is put under pressure, and when I see young people in closed psychiatric wards with life in lasers due to a hash psychosis. It's almost unbearable. So let us now stick to the fact that there is a reason why we in Denmark have undertaken to reserve cannabis for medical and scientific purposes. We have done this through the United Nations, where we have joined the United Nations Convention on Drugs. And it makes good sense that we strengthen not only through conventions but international cooperation in the fight against backers and others who operate in shady and criminal environments where selling hashish and others' accidents creates both revenue and profit. But let us also bear in mind that we must have reinforced international police cooperation. It is with the sale of cannabis as with so many other conditions that crime does not know about national borders. And the very fact that cannabis is illegal supports the seriousness that our young people must understand is associated with the use of cannabis. We must take action against cross-border crime and stick firmly to telling our young people why it is foolish to start smoking hashish and playing gambling with both the future and health. The previous government, of which the Radicals themselves were part, took a fine initiative with the prevention packages. I am aware that the legalisation of cannabis is a hot topic and for some a politically hot potato. And it is no secret that there are also differences of opinion among civil politicians. It is also no secret that in other parts of the world cannabis has been legalised both in the Netherlands and in individual states in the United States. But does this mean that we should do the same in Denmark? No, because that doesn't change the substance. Cannabis is harmful to health, and experience from the Netherlands, where significantly more young people have experience with cannabis than Danish young people, speaks their clear language, as well as the argument that legalisation will limit organised crime, is purely guesswork. After all, experience in the Netherlands has shown that coffee shop practices have not had a noticeable effect on organised crime. The Left cannot support the proposal that has been put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331104438	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331104442	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. I remember now that the rapporteur was saying about the same thing in this Chamber a year and a half ago, I think it is when we discussed medical cannabis, but fortunately the rapporteur changed his mind along the way. So there's a little hope ahead. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, After all, I believe that we in the Danish Parliament agree that we would very much like to base our policy on knowledge, and that is why I am perhaps a little annoyed that the rapporteur is drawing the Netherlands forward as an example, but not Colorado. Now I mentioned before what the experience of Colorado shows, that is, there is no higher consumption among young people. So I would just like to urge that we may all try, like all of us, to highlight both the positive and negative elements and, in general, to base our arguments on knowledge. But what I really wanted to return to was such a comment in relation to the slide argument, that is, when young people smoke cannabis, it is a slippery path to the hard drugs. On what basis does the rapporteur base this assertion? Because I think I can actually find more examples that prove that this is not the case. So what's the documentation for that claim?
ParlaMint-DK_20170331104553	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331104554	Now I have to start by saying that the memory of Danish politics can be exceptionally short, and I have to say to the alternative rapporteur that we in the Left were not opposed to medical cannabis. We could not support the proposal put forward by the Alternative at the time, just like the Medical Association, which, moreover, did not support it, but we certainly support medical cannabis and welcome the fact that there are legal medical cannabis preparations on the market, which we have been banning and advocating even in the morning of time. The rapporteur then mentions Colorado, but let us try to keep to the facts. The fact is that in both Colorado and Washington there has been a general increase in cannabis consumption since it has been legalized. If you look at the figures from 2012-2013 compared to children between 12 and 17, you can see that there were 11.2 percent who smoked cannabis once a month. That figure had risen to 12.6 per cent. in 2013-2014. So I just have to refute it when the rapporteur says that there has been no increase, because that is there. This is, in general, what characterizes the consumption of cannabis in the United States, namely an increase.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331104709	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331104710	I believe that the rapporteur and I must make a comparison of documentation and studies. There's something else I'd like to ask you. Now the Minister and also the rapporteur mentioned these examples of meeting and now I quote people who have been in hospital with strong hash psychoses, etc. I don't doubt that. I am simply opposed to that being, it can be said, the argument for a major fundamental discussion that we have here in the Danish Parliament today. I would also like to ask the rapporteur to confirm that it is the case that there is no consensus among researchers on the link between psychosis and cannabis. It is precisely the case that there are some researchers who claim that cannabis leads to psychosis, while there are other researchers who claim that the tendency to develop psychosis is actually what makes you also more likely to smoke cannabis. I have not answered what is right, but the researchers themselves recognise that they do not agree. Can the rapporteur not confirm that there is no consensus on this among the researchers?
ParlaMint-DK_20170331104813	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331104814	I think there are a great many points of view on everything and let me address the rapporteur's questions from before, i.e. whether hash can be a slippery path. I didn't say that hash is a slippery slope, I said that hash can be a slippery slope. Then, in response to the rapporteur's second question, I would like to quote just a small piece of the report by the Danish Health Service, called CANNABIS - the current knowledge of the effects of russian influences, harmful effects and spread, which is from 23 March 2017. There is clear evidence that cannabis use can cause anxiety and panic attacks and increases the risk of psychotic symptoms, and also that cannabis use is more common among psychiatric patients than in the normal population.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331104903	Thank you to Mrs Jane Heitmann. There are no more brief comments. I would like to welcome the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Seligman. Rune Lund from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331104929	Thank you, President. This proposal is to require the government in the current parliamentary assembly to initiate a legislative preparatory work which will result in a bill that legalises cannabis for a trial period of 3 years in a model where state-controlled sales are legal and where we as Danes are given the right to smoke, buy and store cannabis for own consumption. This is a proposal that we can support. It doesn't go as far as we really wanted to go. We're ready for you to drop the trial period and, as a matter of fact, go straight to legalization. This is due to many things, and I think that the parties which do not support this proposal lack a recognition that the war on hashish and, in general, the war on drugs, which has been waged in Denmark for many years, but which has also been conducted globally for many years, has been a misguided strategy. If we take a country like Portugal, where we have legalised consumption and possession of hashish for our own consumption, we see that consumption has not increased. If, with legalisation, we can achieve that consumption does not increase, and if we have a state-controlled sale where the products are under control and where there will be opportunities for information and contact with customers, users, and therefore also better opportunities for preventive action, then the revenue that is currently going to organized criminals could go to the treasury instead. If we listen to the Copenhagen Police, we will know that they believe that the hash sale at Christiania and that was before the clearance of Pusher Street alone amounts to about 1 billion. kr. a year. It's a sloppy money, it has to be said, which organized criminals and others can apparently get from this very lucrative business. By moving away from the current ban strategy and moving to a controlled, regulated legalisation, we will be able to cut the funding for these organized criminals to a very large extent. It is true that they also make other forms of crime: financial crime, blackmail. There are a great many things you can do when you are part of a hardcore criminal environment, but everything else equals we want to eliminate a large part of the funding of their criminal activities by legalising hashish. Then I would say that a problem with the proposal is understood in the sense that it should go further than that concerning the state-controlled sale. There you have suffered the problem in the Netherlands that you certainly have a state-controlled sale with the benefits it brings, but the actual import of cannabis is still going on without having any control over who makes money on it. In other words, it is still organized criminals who, as such, benefit from imports into the Netherlands at the level of production and transport. So if we are to make a proper model, we must actually make sure that we have a model in which we not only have a government-controlled sale and it could be that we used a system of the Swedish Systembolaget, which we know about alcohol; we could do that at home for cannabis but also for state-controlled production. If it was up to us in the Enhedslisten, we would like the state to be responsible for that production, but it can also be done in the form of an authorisation system, where Danish farmers are asked to produce the cannabis that is to be sold under state-controlled forms in shops, for example. a la en cannabis version of the Systembolaget. I would say that this is clearly a step in the right direction. It would be good to have a trial period. If it were up to us, we would be ready to go even further to say that there does not have to be a trial period. We are ready to take the step fully. So we also think that we need to look at the production side, and I hope that is something we can have a dialogue on with the Radical Left, and that the Radical Left can see that we simply also have to look at the production stage itself and the transport stage to the shops where state-controlled sales are to take place. With these comments, we in the Enhedslisten are of course in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331105426	There is a brief comment from Mrs Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331105429	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. At any rate, I understand that we have one thing in common: it is not often that the Left and the Enhedslisten have something in common and that is that we want to put an end to gang crime. Now I do not know whether the rapporteur is still on Funen or has a new circle. I'm in Assens, so maybe we have a little thing in common around Funen. This means that in my everyday life I live with the Black Army right in the backyard and often and often face the crime associated with the Black Army, among other things. in the form of hash sale and revenue from it. We have just adopted a gang package which addresses proposals for how we can get the bucket under the gangs, how we can get rid of gang crime. And I would just like to ask Enhedslisten's rapporteur: what is it that makes Enhedslisten not consider it opportune to be part of the gang package?
ParlaMint-DK_20170331105533	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331105535	I'm elected on Funen. I've never been anywhere but on Funen. I'm elected in the Middelfart Circle, and I'm at the moment. set up in the Odense circle. And I know very well about the gang problems that are also on Funen and in Odense, especially with the Black Army. There's been a gang package of 35 initiatives. We have also participated in the negotiations. There are many of the initiatives that are good • better control of the storage of weapons in private homes, better control of shooting clubs, and a free-ride action needs to be carried out. After all, we saw that there was one in 2009 and one in 2013, and each time around 10,000 weapons were deposited. There are many good proposals in that gang package, but there are also many very problematic and seriously bad proposals, among others. The fact that there will be a reduction in the possibility of parole, which we know is a very important and central rehabilitation tool. And when you go in and in that way destroy the rehabilitation work, because you want to signal that you want to be really hard on bikers and gangs, you actually do the exact opposite of what should be the intention you are actually creating more and not less crime. So when the gang package will be transformed into concrete legislative proposals, we will vote in favour of the parts that we agree with and there are quite a lot of amendments and then we will vote against those that we disagree with. And we will ensure that there will be a division so that we can be allowed to vote in favour of the quite a lot of good measures that are actually in that gang package.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331105700	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we thank Mr. Rune Lund. The next rapporteur is Mrs May-Britt Kattrup, Liberal Alliance. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331105716	Thank you for that, President. Thank you for the floor and thank you to the Radical Left for the motion for a resolution. It is well known that the Liberal Alliance wants a legalisation of cannabis. It is also well known that we are part of the government; a government in which the majority do not want legalisation. And democracy also applies within the government. So let me already state that the Liberal Alliance backs the government's overall policy when we vote. However, this does not mean that the Liberal Alliance has changed its position or changed its position. However, we do not want and work hard for the legalisation of cannabis as a state monopoly, as I read this proposal suggests. So we do not support this proposal, although we want the legalisation of cannabis. For us, it is quite fundamental that we should not restrict each other in our choices, even in those who may seem less reasonable. We must be allowed to decide for ourselves about our own life and body as long as it does not harm others and we are not alone in thinking so. International conventions say you have a right to privacy. Human Rights claims that it is a human right to be able to control your own body. There is no doubt that cannabis can have harmful effects through abuse, as well as alcohol and chocolate, and for that matter everything that is consumed in excessive doses. Figures from the U.S. states that have legalised cannabis do not suggest that more people end up in abuse, even though cannabis is legalised; nor can the general increase in consumption be shown to have causality with legalisation. But abuse there will be, legally or not legally. But those who unfortunately end up in abuse need help and not punishment, and even if we can help today, everything else will be easier if we have an open and transparent market. Abuse is terrible; it destroys and tears you up. It can destroy opportunities for education and jobs, and it means that you can lose contact with friends and family. However, as far as psychosis is concerned, I am aware that no studies have been able to establish a causal link between psychosis and cannabis consumption. Our current ban policy makes it very clear that the strategy has failed. It has not made cannabis less accessible. You can buy cannabis on every corner of every town from Gedser to Skagen. Prohibition is not preventive, but by legalising cannabis it will be easier to prevent, for example. young people start with cannabis. We can control where it is sold, and we can have opening hours, age limits, etc. A legal market is safe to be in. No one should be associated with criminals or criminals to get a Saturday joint instead of a glass of red wine. Less crime means that the police can use their resources to protect us from others instead of ourselves. There's enough terror, burglary and assault to get to grips with. Perhaps there could be a little fewer criminals if we funded them less through their trafficking in illegal cannabis. Instead, we could obtain revenue from a legal cannabis sale; money, such as: could be used to help those who today have an abuse; and money that we could use for information on how harmful cannabis can be, so that the individual can make his own decision on an informed basis. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331110129	You're welcome. There is a brief comment from Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331110133	Thank you for that and thank you for your speech, which I fully agree with. So it is a little paradoxical that the Liberal Alliance will be voting against this resolution. This simply leads me to ask, and it is quite really meant: is it, then, because the concern to sit in government weighs more heavily than the desire of the Liberal Alliance to legalise cannabis?
ParlaMint-DK_20170331110204	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331110205	It is in recognition that we are in a government where democracy also works, and we are in a minority in the government on this issue. That's the way it is. Our job now is to work in the government to convince the others that this is a good idea. But now we are in government and we are in a minority of the government and we are voting with the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331110231	There are no more questions. There is also a brief comment from Mrs Lotte Rod. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331110238	The Liberal Alliance rapporteur says that there is a majority in the government against an attempt to legalise hashish. Is it a majority of parties, or is it a majority of ministers?
ParlaMint-DK_20170331110252	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331110254	I have not spoken it up on ministers, but I would think it applies to both. It is certainly a majority of parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331110300	The questioner? No. Those were nice short comments. We thank Mrs May-Britt Kattrup for her speech and welcome Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331110316	Thank you so much. The historical perspective is that cannabis was banned in Denmark when the UN recommended a general ban in all UN Member States. We have not really mentioned this, but I do think it is important to mention at least that when cannabis was banned in Denmark, it did not have any scientific evidence behind it. It was not the case that they went out and said: we have a lot of evidence that cannabis is harmful, so we are forbidding it. A recommendation from the United Nations was followed. Then you can disagree or agree on whether you should always do it, but it's just interesting that there really wasn't a critical mass, a critical, one might say, opposition then, which opposed this resolution. After all, there was a great deal of disagreement in the Folketing when cannabis was banned and also in the years after when there were some subsequent discussions and some follow-up evaluations of the ban. We have talked about experience, and I shall be the first to point out that experience is not clear. I have mentioned the experience of Colorado, and I think it is remarkable that the study in which the 17 000 young people in Colorado have been asked shows that the level is the same. The Left rapporteur argues that there is an increase, but it is so marginal that it cannot be detected or linked to legalisation. It is a variation that will always be over the years. So the evaluations from Colorado at research level show that there is no increase. We need to take this seriously too. Then we'll look at Holland and there's an increase. We must also take this seriously. So of course we must point to both the advantages and disadvantages of a possible legalisation of cannabis in Denmark. In Portugal, they have such good, unambiguous and solid experiences of decriminalisation. I do not think there are many who would argue against me when I say that Portugal has unequivocally positive experiences of decriminalisation. Just talk to the police in Portugal. Then we talk a lot about the health aspect, and that is what has been brought up a lot as a counter-argument. In fact, I think it is a pity that today's debate is under the auspices of the Committee on Health, and not under the auspices of the Committee on Legal Affairs. And when I say it, it's because I think we all agree that cannabis is harmful. Well, I haven't heard anyone stand up here saying that cannabis isn't harmful. We know it is, because it has also been documented: yes, potentially cannabis can be harmful. The question is how we use it and how we deal with it and how we as a society work to inform our citizens that it can be harmful. Then we would have had this discussion in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, perhaps we would also have had a greater focus on the effect that hash trade in Denmark has on crime statistics, on the criminal environment. I would actually have preferred that, because then I think we might have been able to get a slightly more nuanced debate out of it. 'Cause there's the harm to health. Now the Minister says that she does not believe that legalisation will reduce consumption. No, maybe not, everything else straight, but in Colorado they got 113 million. Dollar into revenue in 2015, after they legalized in 2014 • 113 million. Dollars. Many of them, not all of them, have been used for prevention. We could imagine that the charges entered through a sale in Denmark were used purposefully, not only to make campaign material, but also by simply going to schools and talking to the young people and telling them what it can do to them and their bodies if they abuse cannabis. I think that could have a tremendous effect on the risk of abuse and on our fears that young people are smoking too much cannabis. We all know the crime picture. Now we have adopted a rocker gang package because we have a huge problem, but legalisation of cannabis could address that problem on three points: firstly, we could hit the rocker gang environment on their revenue base because that is what they live on. So if we really want to kill them, let's take them, let's strangle them, remove the oxygen... what they live on, their own funding. Secondly, we spend an insane amount of money in the police to arrest and to go after possession and legal proceedings in relation to possession and use of cannabis. It's an impossible task for the police to fight it. Thirdly, we have a large number of addicts who criminalise themselves and who would benefit from a massive offer of rehab without fearing that they would be criminalised because they have committed something illegal. So what we have now is not a control policy, it is a control loss policy. We can try to do this differently through legalisation, and then we have to live with some who smoke a joint Friday evening at home on the couch. Peace be with it at least if it is not young people. What are we so afraid of? I would like to call for us to try it out and therefore, of course, the alternative also supports the proposal. It may well be that in three years' time we will find out that this was not the right way to go, but at least we will have become wiser. In conclusion, I would like to say that the alternative also supports the idea of Danish organic production and, ultimately, also a home-grown model if we could ever get this far. But my time is up. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331110834	There are a few brief comments. The first is from Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331110839	Thank you. Now, of course, I know that the rapporteur, in general terms, we have known each other for several years, the rapporteur is the former health rapporteur, who is very concerned about documentation and what can be documented. I also understand that the alternative is concerned that we must reduce the rate of crime, that we must put an end to gang crime. After all, we do not support the gang package, so we can say a lot without taking action behind the words, but will the rapporteur not tell us what evidence the rapporteur has, which actually shows that when cannabis is legalised, the rate of crime goes down? We have discussed the Netherlands and the figures speak their clear language, but what is the documentation available to the rapporteur? Finally, the rapporteur has repeatedly referred to Colorado. What kind of documentation does the rapporteur have since the rapporteur repeatedly points out that the use of hashish has actually fallen after it has been legalized?
ParlaMint-DK_20170331110942	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331110946	No, I have not said that the use of cannabis has fallen, I have said that it has been at the same level among young people. These are documentation which I shall have my political assistant send to the rapporteur of the Left, because we have researched this very thoroughly. It's mainly documentation from Colorado that we've brought in and that's research based. As far as crime is concerned, it is also Colorado-based documentation that shows us and I have mentioned it before that in 2010 there were 300,000 residents in Colorado who were charged with crime, who had some sort of relationship with cannabis or hash trade, and that had fallen to 2,500. No, I'm sorry, I said 300,000, it was 30,000 in 2010. It has fallen to 2,500 in 2014. So that's what I'm leaning on.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331111027	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331111032	After all, there is nothing strange about the fact that there are fewer people who suddenly become criminals when one day it has been illegal to have something in their pockets that the next day is legal. What I am concerned about is gang crime, it is organised crime, which is a huge challenge in the Netherlands. In the entire growing environment in the Netherlands every year, thousands of greenhouses are closed. I just want to know: does the rapporteur really believe that criminal gangs can be killed by legalising hashish? And if the answer is yes, that is quite okay, but would the rapporteur please tell us what evidence is being relied on? I know that the rapporteur is concerned to be able to document and work knowingly and with the knowledge we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331111119	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331111123	Yes. There are a lot of nuances in this debate, and that is what I was trying to say at the end. There are research and studies that show one thing, and there is something that shows the other. What we know at least is that gang crime in Denmark is an increasing problem. Now a gang package has been adopted, in which we have a vertical disagreement with the tools. We do not believe that higher penalties and more control work, not at all against gangs, so we need to try something new. We believe that the legalization of cannabis could mean something because we take the income from the gangs. We do not know if it works in Denmark, because we haven't tried it before, and that's why I say: let's try it. A 3-year trial period is a fantastic time horizon to try it out. I shall be the first to stand up here and admit that I was wrong if it turns out that it doesn't work in due course, but I just want to try it so hard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331111214	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331111218	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. There is something that confuses me a little, which I would like to ask about, and that is in relation to the part of the rapporteur's speech about gang crime. One of the countries that may have had the freest view in this area for many years, Holland, has experienced a situation where there has been so much gang crime that it has begun to export to other countries, including Denmark, where gangs, who were initially rooted in the Netherlands, suddenly operate in other countries. I do not think that, historically, is very conducive to what the alternative will do. So my question is actually quite clear: what makes the alternative think that adopting this proposal would be a step in the right direction in order to combat gang crime in Denmark? What is it that makes the gangs suddenly become law-abiding citizens by adopting a proposal like this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170331111311	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331111313	What we do is we take some of their income from them. Then you will argue that they will find other ways of financing their illegal actions. It may be, but it may also be that they do not. The Netherlands has a different model compared to cannabis. You do not, of course, have a State-controlled model, which is what is being proposed here. Maybe it has an effect. I cannot stand and prove that in three years' time it will look like this if we do so, but I am the first to be ready to try it, because the rapporteur must agree that we have certainly not made any progress in combating gang crime in Denmark. Now gang package III has been adopted, which is some kind of superstructure on gang packages I and II. What makes the rapporteur think that gang package III will work better than II and I, who had the very same tools, we just put a little on the buttons. We have to try something new. This is something that scientists also point to could be a step in that direction. So let's try it, and then we'll have to evaluate afterwards whether it's worked.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331111411	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331111414	I think in all modesty that this is a very good gang package that we have helped to make, but that is another talk. I do not think I really got the answer to the question, but I would like to ask a follow-up question. It goes on to say that if we were to follow what was in the proposal here, that is, if we had adopted it and done what it said, we would have had a discussion at some point about whether cocaine or other drugs should be legalised, because that market will still have the gangs gone. So should you choose that path? You could ask yourself other questions. We can abolish all laws and regulations in this country, because then no one will break them. I have to say that I do not think what the alternative is proposing here makes much sense. But where does this stop? Isn't this just a slippery slope?
ParlaMint-DK_20170331111500	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331111504	But it is basically about how we view the state as a state power and the citizens as individual rights holders of their own lives. I would very much like to take that discussion at a level of principle. A decriminalisation that you have in Portugal gives the individual citizen the opportunity to do so if you, for example, are able to do so. is in a cocaine or heroin abuse, in other words can be allowed to go to rehab without risking being punished for it. So you don't need a criminal career to keep your addiction going, and if you want to get out of it, you can, in fact, contact the authorities and say that I want help with this. It is clear that if you do not risk being imprisoned for it, there will be a greater incentive to get out of that abuse too. So we believe that citizens want to do this and that they take the personal responsibility that lies in our individual freedoms. But it is clear that it is a matter of state and citizen vis-à-vis each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331111550	Sir. Preben Bang Henriksen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331111600	Thank you for an expert speech, as usual. I understood the rapporteur as saying that there is no doubt that cannabis is harmful and addictive, and that is why I am asking the question. For the rapporteur also said that we will be able to meet again in three years' time, and we may have to say that this was not the case. What is the rapporteur going to do about the young people who are trying it over this three-year period and then we find out that we should not keep the legislation? I'm thinking that it's a little weird for me that we have a limited period of time for this, that is, for something that's addictive. Because people get into it, and then they can't get out of it. Does the rapporteur have any comments on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170331111641	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331111645	Thank you. I said there is no doubt that cannabis is not harmful. I didn't actually say addictive, because I'm not an expert on it. I think we need to talk to some experts about whether it's addictive. There is in the proposal we have put forward in the past that, if we have such a model here, we simply have to have an offer of rehab every time we go to these extradition points and buy cannabis. There must be a free offer of rehab, if that's what you want. So I actually think we're gonna take care of it. And, as I said before, the whole element of prevention, in terms of how we use the means to prevent young people, is, of course, also a major part of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331111720	Sir. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331111725	I'm sorry I mentioned the word addictive if it wasn't said. However, I think that all those concerned with this debate agree that the use of hashish is addictive. I would like to ask the rapporteur to elaborate on this if you do not mean it. And again, what are we going to do about the young people who, in confidence in a three-year resolution from the Folketing, started smoking hashish, and then we find out that this was not a good idea, because it was harmful? To the extent that it is addictive, they are sitting in the soup bag, to put it plainly.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331111758	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331111801	I think we need researchers to help us define how addictive hash is. I just don't want to stand up here and say it. I think it all depends on how much you smoke and how often. The Left is Denmark's liberal party, and the Left stands for liberal freedoms, which, as I understand them, is about the state giving the individual the right to live his own life and decide his own life. This is about people over 18 years of age. It's not about 14-year-olds or little kids. It is about people over the age of 18 who are allowed to buy cannabis on their own initiative and on their own responsibility. Of course we must help them if they want to get out of any abuse, but it is, of course, about giving people that freedom. I think we are very much in line with the classic liberal ideas of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331111845	Thank you. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331111858	Thank you. There must never be any doubt that we in the SF are very concerned about how we can prevent hash abuse and harmful effects. The question of the legalisation of hashish is not black and white with our eyes. However, we know what we have: citizens and perhaps especially young people who continue to consume cannabis. We do not know exactly the extent, but we know that the problem is increasing. We know that the ban has a strong criminal environment. We have no possibility of influencing the products, and we need more resources to deal with abuse problems, not least the consequences of the serious psychological damage caused, for example, by polydrug abuse. For these reasons, the SF also supports the motion for a resolution tabled by the Radical Left. However, I would like to propose during the committee's reading that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs for a specific assessment of the impact of the proposal on the criminal gang environment, including the use of resources in relation to the criminalisation of users, if that is possible. I would also like to propose during committee reading a treatment plan for psychiatric treatment and research into the implications of abuse problems. Controlled sales can mean both control of products and revenues to the state, which can be used for prevention, and we can have the large illegal market that gangs feed on. Will a legalization of hash send a signal that it's okay? Well, if the argument is to hold, we must also ban all kinds of other drugs, such as drugs. tobacco and spirits. The SF supports the proposal. It is a good idea to have a trial period, and if it can give greater support, if you define the experiment for example. Copenhagen, I also see it as an opportunity. I hope, at least, that the committee will be able to have a more detailed discussion, possibly with the contribution of some professionals during the course of the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331112120	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331112125	Thank you. I just want to ask you if the SF supports the UN Convention on Drugs.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331112130	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331112131	Yeah, SF does.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331112133	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331112135	What is the position of the SF, since it is now a reality that if this resolution were implemented, it would be contrary to the United Nations Convention on Drugs? Is the SF mind to advocate that we withdraw from the convention cooperation, or how does the SF view the paradox of apparently supporting the UN Convention on Drugs, but it also supports a motion for a resolution which is in direct conflict with the Convention?
ParlaMint-DK_20170331112207	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331112208	It is simply too technical for me to be able to reply to that, I would say to Mrs Jane Heitmann. I think that there are already a great many good examples in Europe where some tests are being carried out. We have found that there is a growing criminal environment. I think that there is a need to decriminalise young people in order to get young people to seek the necessary help. I think it is easier for young people to seek help in time if it is the case that they do not have an experience of doing something that is forbidden. We have good experience of this in Portugal, for example. I think that can be transferred to a trial period in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331112249	Thank you. Then it's mr. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331112252	I just have to ask for an in-depth comment on this issue of the UN Convention. It's obvious. It is not very technical that the adoption of this proposal would be directly contrary to that convention. I think everyone is aware of that. Then I just have to ask whether it is SF's view that we can be indifferent to the conventions and simply adopt the proposals we want. Or are we going to cancel the convention in question?
ParlaMint-DK_20170331112318	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331112320	I am sorry, but I give the same answer that I gave to Mrs Jane Heitmann. I think it is possible to find solutions so that an experimental scheme can be put in place to ensure decriminalisation of the area and to get more information and perhaps also to sort out what it is actually for some products that are being sold in the criminal environment. I am concerned that there are products in the criminal environment that harm more than they would have done if production had been managed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331112353	Sir. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331112355	I'm gonna drop out. It'll just be a repeat of the last three questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331112400	Thank you. There are no further comments to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Birgitte Klintskov Jerkel, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331112410	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking the Radical Left for putting this serious issue on the agenda so that we can debate it again. I would say, however, that I had not expected a proposal from the Radical Left to legalise cannabis, not at all when I think that back in 2007 you did not think that the smoking law was restrictive enough. But that's how you can be surprised sometimes. In the Conservative People's Party, we are against free hash. We see no reason to make a drug that passiveises young people freely available. We simply do not believe that more hash fog is an advantage for Denmark. The use of cannabis as a drug is associated with a high risk of serious adverse effects. There is a risk of developing hash psychoses, anxiety, panic reactions, and this also leads to reduced learning ability. For prolonged use there is a risk of mental illness. In 2014, 1,061 people were admitted to the psychiatric emergency room with cannabis as the main drug-related diagnosis. It is almost a triple since the 2005s, where the number of admissions was 429. It shows figures from the National Health Service. Especially the mentally vulnerable young people with personal and social problems are in a particularly vulnerable group in this area. In the Conservative People's Party, we believe that banning cannabis also helps to reduce the possibility of getting cannabis. At the same time, we are sending a signal that cannabis is dangerous and can cause serious harm. The resolution mentions the organised criminal environments and the fact that hash trade supports a tough and criminal environment, which creates insecurity for ordinary people and attracts large bills of exchange to the police. I agree it does. But that is not a real reason why we should then just legalise it, even when it is estimated that legalisation will have a dubious effect on organised criminal environments. I have great sympathy for working to destroy the gangs' finances. But there are other ways to go to criminals than to legalize their products and give them a huge legal income. It is to be feared that the gang economy will only improve and, moreover, the gangs are also on other incomes, and there is certainly a limit to what is to be legalized by drugs. Furthermore, blackmail can be mentioned, and the question is whether we are not just doing the criminal environment a service by making their business model risk-free. The Conservative People's Party is opposed to the legalisation of cannabis and we cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331112749	Thank you. There are no comments. Then it is Mrs Lotte Rod, the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331112810	Thank you. When the Christians threw out the pushers, it was my impression that virtually all the politicians in here were very busy celebrating it, but there were quite a few politicians who would answer where the hash trade was going to take place. I think most people felt the same way as me and thought, it shouldn't be at home on my playground or on my sidewalk. And then you owe an answer to where it's gonna happen. In the Radical Left we think the best answer is to give the state the opportunity. On the one hand, it might be nice to hear today that all parties are so concerned about combating the abuse of young people. But where are the answers? Because we're not doing it well enough today. Recently I heard at a conference from Trine Ry from the City of Copenhagen that between 16,000 and 17,000 young people between 15 and 25 years of age smoke hashish daily or almost daily. But there is only 5.264 in the treatment of abuse. What about the last 10,000? Do we not owe them a better answer than today, or should we just keep closing our eyes to them? Addicts will not abuse less because of a ban. On the other hand, today it is the gangs, the criminals who are on the market. One thing in that is the money that we have also discussed today. Well, it's better that they were put in the state than in the criminals. It also has other consequences. The fact that it is criminal means that the hash sale is pushed underground and can lead to young people hiding their abuse and thus not being helped. The fact that it is criminal also means for some young people that they end up getting stains on their criminal record. That may be what helps them to be excluded from the labour market. On the other hand, if you went in and allowed the state to take over the sale, we would have the opportunity to do something more, by helping to regulate what it would cost, where it would have to be sold, what the concentration of the active substances should be and what the age limit should be, in order to buy it, so that it is not, as it is today, everyone who can get hold of it. You will also be able to do so, that instead of just punishing the abusers, you would actually be able to help them. After all, we would be able to make demands on who is in the shops, what training they have, what toolbox they can help young people with. Or let us be inspired by Portugal, where instead of giving people fines they give advice and thus help out of the abuse. Recently we had a conference in here at Christiansborg on this subject, where abuse expert Henrik Rindom told us that the young people with psychosocial problems that he encounters, who smoke cannabis, have an abuse, do so: because cannabis makes them indifferent to everyday problems, calms them down, causes the mind to disappear so they can sleep. Worst of all, the youths tell us: When the rush calms us, adults like us better. So it's gonna hurt your stomach. Therefore, I would like to say to Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen, that when we have discussed this before with whether the ban acts as an argument, I would say that it obviously does not do so for these young people. They really need help. When I have made this proposal with Mr. Morten Østergaard, it was in the hope of not only repeating the debate we had a hundred times, I was about to say, but with a desire that we together can become wiser. That is why we have deliberately not just written that we must now implement some particular model, but instead set in motion with this motion for a resolution to set in motion a legislative preparatory work which means that the Minister must bring together the main experts, obtain knowledge and qualify how to do it in the best way, because we must not just take a model from another country, but must make the best model in Denmark. Some in my party are in favour of this because they are driven by liberal thinking. As rapporteur for health and education, I am primarily driven by what works. I think it is very clear that we have failed, as we are doing today, and that we can do better. And I was kind of hoping that all parties in the Folketing would help to learn more about that. At any rate, I would very much like to include the proposals that have been made today from the Enhedslisten to look at production and from the SF to calculate what could actually be saved from police resources if we did here in a different way. I think it is obvious that we should include it in the committee's proceedings.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331113448	Thank you. There are some brief comments. First, it is Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331113453	Thank you. I think it is very important to insist that the starting point of the Radicals, if you follow the resolution here, is that we should legalise cannabis. I also explained in my rapporteur's speech that I am very surprised, especially because I know that the rapporteur's heart is beating for children and young people. I know that in the past the Radicals have not voted in favour of the VK Government's smoking law because it simply did not think that it was based on an evident basis. I know that the Radicals want to tighten the smoking law, introduce neutral cigarette packs. And yet you want to soften up on exactly cannabis, although you know that the places where they have legalized it, for example. The United States and the Netherlands, the number of young people who smoke has not fallen. I share the rapporteur's point of departure that it would be nice to have another debate. That is why I would just like to ask the rapporteur, just as I asked the SF's rapporteur: are the Radicals backing up the UN Convention on Drugs?
ParlaMint-DK_20170331113544	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331113546	We are doing so, although we are also happy to work to change it. That is why it must, of course, be part of the legislative preparatory work that we would like the Ministry to undertake.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331113558	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331113600	I just have to say, I'm surprised. Because we all know here that if we legalize cannabis as a drug, I have not heard anyone speak against it. I'd like to make two brief quotations. Now, sir. Morten Østergaard co-sponsors it, and this is a quote from Berlingske on 31 January 2016, where he says about conventions: "We don't have to leave Denmark in a position where it looks like we're trying to get out of the world community and where the parties stand on each other's necks to get out of the international conventions. ▪ Another quote is by Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen from Jyllands-Posten on 29 April 2016, where she says: "You need to settle on your chest and show that you are symbolistally ready for anything to crack down on criminals, but we want to comply with our basic conventions. Once you start going that way, all the idiots do it too, and then we have no legal certainty for ourselves. In other words, the Radicals are quite clearly out in favour of the conventions. Why is this not the case with cannabis?
ParlaMint-DK_20170331113703	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331113704	I fully agree with the importance of the international conventions. That is why it makes my radical heart a little bit happy that it is apparently the big discussion today, in other words that all parties in the Folketing are very concerned that we must abide by the conventions. I think we should certainly continue to work on that. Specifically in relation to cannabis, we can be inspired by the way it has been done in Portugal. Therefore, it would be perfectly obvious that it became one of the ways one looked at in the legislative preparatory work.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331113734	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331113742	Thank you. In Colorado, young people aged 18-25 two years after legalizing cannabis there indicated that they had smoked hash in the last month. That's 17%. several who had indicated that they had done so if compared with the figures, from 2 years before legalized it. That actually means that there were 17 per cent. Several who had now smoked since this legalization. What is the Radical Left's view of the fact that there will actually be a risk of even more cannabis being used by legalisation in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20170331113838	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331113841	It must be the whole premise of the legislative preparatory work that we want to develop a pilot model in Denmark that will make more people out of abuse and get fewer young people to start an abuse, and that is why we need to get it together wisely. And I am not worried about what the Conservative rapporteur is saying, because I believe that what should be the whole strength of a state-controlled sale is that, among other things, we do. can control who can get to buy it. By taking over the sale, we can of course set an age limit by how old we should be to be allowed to buy it at all, and thus help to prevent some of the very young people who today have completely free access to buying hashish from having it anymore.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331113924	Here you go, Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331113929	Thank you. Now that we know that there are these consequences of cannabis consumption, that is, hash psychoses, anxiety and panic, I have a great deal of concern about this and these very consequences, I would like to hear what the Radicals are going to do about interventions in relation to the effects of cannabis consumption here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331113958	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331114000	Just to start: Well, the Conservatives owe an answer to that if you just want to stick to it as it is today. As I mentioned earlier with the example of the City of Copenhagen, it is known that 16 000 to 17 000 young people are having hash abuse and only 5 000 of them are being treated. That's not good enough. Therefore, one of the advantages of making state-controlled sales is that we can engage with people at sales outlets who know something about how to help young people out of abuse, just as we could change the model, so instead of you, like today, if you are taken with hashish, get a fine, get advice and help to get out of your abuse. After all, the problem today is that too many young people go around hiding it and are therefore not being treated. We can get in touch with them much more easily if we introduce state-controlled sales.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331114052	Thank you. Then it's mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331114056	Thank you very much. I hope that the rapporteur on the Radical Left has listened to and understood the Socialist rapporteur's speech today. Our concern is about the harmful effects of hashish. In the autumn, and this was in September/October, I asked the Minister for Health a whole series of questions to clarify and explain the harmful effects, the combinations of consequences of hashish. I would just like to draw attention to that to all the rapporteurs here today. That is Question 1021 from September/October last year. Let me just quote what the Danish Health Authority says. They say: An overall conclusion across a number of studies is that cannabis abuse during youth years is associated with a doubled risk of later psychosis. Another point is that the increasing amount of research suggests that cannabis use and the psychosocial consequences of use in themselves increase the risk of mental illness. When the rapporteur says that there is a real need for help for many more young addicts, is the rapporteur and the Radical Left in doubt as to what the Socialist position is in this regard?
ParlaMint-DK_20170331114218	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331114221	No, I actually find that we are quite in agreement on that, and that is why I had also hoped that the Socialists would support a proposal to do the legislative preparatory work, that is to say to call up the main experts to gather knowledge of what this is actually for a model that will help young people to get the most out of abuse. We have, for example. We need to clarify how those sales outlets are going to work, because it is of no use that we are thinking that it should be someone who can help, but that, if it gets a little too much with the finger raised, it may be that you think you don't want to go there anyway. That is why it requires us to draw on the most important knowledge of what social workers, abuse counsellors and other experts we have today, who have experience in motivating young people and helping young people to get out of abuse. The experience has to be drawn on, and that is the whole idea that we want the Ministry to sit down at the end of the table.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331114323	Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331114324	I think that the answer given to me by the Danish Health Service a few months ago shows that we have a great deal of knowledge in this area. I would just very much like the Radical Left rapporteur to understand that we do not think it is either or I said it in my rapporteur's speech, but our very great concern is that we believe that legalisation in a three-year attempt will have the risk that more people will abuse hashish, with the consequences it will have for young people and especially vulnerable young people, as the Health Authority's response also clearly describes, and that is what I emphasised in my rapporteur's speech, also at the outset.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331114410	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331114411	But many of the vulnerable young people, like Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen talks about having a hash abuse today, and what we meet them with is fines if we take them with hashish. Then it is much better that we make sure that we have a system where we get help and that it is not like today, that it is hidden and that there are young people hiding their abuse, or that they run the risk of getting a stained criminal record and thus being pushed even further away from the life they otherwise dreamed of. That's why the whole purpose of this is to do it smarter than we do today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331114456	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331114501	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. When you read through the motion for a resolution and the comments on page 2 about almost half of the proposal to combat gang crime, you have to understand. I simply did not understand how such a proposal would combat gang crime. In other words, does the radical rapporteur expect that from one day to the next, if this is carried out, we will see that completely hard-boiled criminal biker gang members would suddenly become law-abiding citizens, because now there was no more hashish? Does the rapporteur really believe that?
ParlaMint-DK_20170331114538	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331114540	What we are doing with the proposal here is taking a billion-dollar business away from the gangs and instead putting it in the state. We believe that this can be done, because by making some state procurement places you can create a better and nicer place to go and buy it than the more or less shady places it is going on today, and partly, for example. will be able to make demands on the active substances, the concentration of the substances, and thus it is safer for the individual to buy it there than it is today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331114618	Sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331114623	It was a creative explanation, but let me try another question. If you imagined that you were following the proposal here... what we are not going to do, I would like to stress that it is not going to happen and that you were doing these state transactions, you would be faced with two different options. First of all, should the product be so expensive, because one would like to stress how harmful this is, knowing that these gangs, which Mrs Lotte Rod thinks they want to fight, will compete with the state? That would be one option. The second possibility would be that it would be so cheap because you would have to win a possible competition that you opened up a huge market and even legitimized this huge market. What are the scenarios if we had to follow this proposal, which the radical rapporteur thinks would be good scenarios? Because I don't see any good scenarios, and I can only see some very...
ParlaMint-DK_20170331114715	Yes, please. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331114719	There's a huge hash market today. Whatever the Danish People's Party thinks about it, it's going on out there, and that's why we're discussing it here: Who's going to sit on that market? Do we think it should be left to the criminals, or do we think it is better for it to be taken over by the state? Therefore, I think there is a good point in asking the Ministry to sit down and make a model that makes sense in Denmark, because of course it will have to be such that you can compete if we are to be able to pull sales over, but at the same time it has to be in a way that makes sense. When it is so important to me that the state can control the sale, it is, of course, because we can also enforce an age limit. No matter how young you are, you have full access today to go out and buy. Many people start smoking very early, and if we manage to make a state-controlled sale, it will be easier for us to enforce an age limit, and that would be good.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331114821	Thank you. Then there are no more comments and no more have asked for the floor, so the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331114850	The debate is open. Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331114859	The draft law here is a prerequisite for us to conclude a cooperation agreement with Europol, which will apply from 1 May 2017. With this proposal, we will ensure that the European Parliament and the Council directive on the protection of natural persons is implemented. The Directive aims at the processing of personal data by the authorities in order to prevent, investigate, detect or prosecute criminal offences or to enforce criminal penalties. In addition, the directive deals with the free movement of certain information which is defined. I have to say that the Social Democratic Party can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331114949	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331114956	Thank you. The draft law proposes the implementation of the law enforcement directive. The proposal is about the handling of sensitive personal data by the authorities, and so it is the handling of this information by the law enforcement authorities. Many of the elements of the proposal have already been implemented in Danish law. There is also a requirement for the appointment of a data protection officer, which can be sensible enough. We have had the debate before. We have had the debate on this proposal back in October. Since then, there has been an agreement or, at least, a draft agreement between Denmark and the European Union on a continued relationship with Europol, and this is a prerequisite for the adoption of the proposal. As it is important for us and for the police to be part of Europol forward-looking or at least have an important relationship, we will be supporting it here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331115117	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331115125	Thank you. We are dealing with the law enforcement directive and, as you know, it concerns law enforcement authorities. Who is it? It's the police, it's the courts, it's the police department, it's the police department, it's the police department, it's the police department, it's the police department, it's the police department, it's the police department, it's the police department, it's the police department, it's the police In general terms, it can be said that the directive is a prerequisite for our accession to Europol, according to the agreement, since it was originally subject to our legal reservations. The Left can support the directive. This includes rules for the processing of data, as I said, i.e. which data can be accessed by the data subject and, above all, the issue of deletion is important, etc. There are a number of specific matters covered by the directive here. Generally speaking, it can be said that existing rules, that is, the rules we have in Denmark, are being continued, with a few additional rights for citizens and a few additional obligations for the authorities. The Left can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331115231	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331115244	When we adopted Denmark's intergovernmental agreement in October to the EU directive on data protection in the field of law enforcement, it happened with the support of the Enhedslisten. In fact, I think it was only the Danish People's Party that voted against. We justified this fundamentally positive attitude by seeing the directive as a step forward in strengthening citizens' legal certainty and data protection. It is not gigantic progress, but it is progress that it is worth taking with it. But one thing is adherence to the directive, another is the practical implementation. As our rapporteur, Mrs Flyvholm, said and announced at the time, it is our position in the Enhedslisten that citizens, including in terms of practical implementation, must be guaranteed the best possible level, taking into account what is possible within the framework of the directive. Fortunately, this framework is well known, as it is a minimum directive. That is precisely why the Enhedslisten supports minimum directives, as opposed to total harmonisation, because the opportunities for individual countries to take the lead in this area for the benefit of citizens are totally blocked. That is what is otherwise the rule in force in the area of the European Union. So there is no question of that here. That is why I think that the Minister for Justice may not, we should say, have actually chosen to go to the edge of the directive. It's very popular in this government to go to the edge of international commitments. But that is clearly not the case. Apparently, it's just about the lower edge. We have read with great interest all the consultation answers and we can recognise our views in the consultation answers from among others. The Independent Police Prosecutor's Office, the Data Protection Agency, the IT Police Association and the Institute for Human Rights. We will therefore examine during the committee's reading the possibility of tabling specific amendments which could come up with these views and improve legal certainty for the citizens of Denmark. It should be in our common interest. That is why, to put it bluntly, the consultation period has been so short that interested parties have had to refrain from presenting their assessments of the legislative proposal. That's why it's awful that the processing time here in the Folketing is getting so short that it's gonna be hard to get to the bottom of this proposal. Of course, we understand the pressure of time to get an intergovernmental Europol agreement in place by 1 May. This is an effort that we support. But it is also a time pressure which has arisen because the 'yes' to everything that comes from the EU's parties for far too long was aiming for the total abolition of the legal reservation instead of seeking from the outset a parallel agreement on Europol. After all, it has been a number of years since it became clear that we would be in this situation. Now the time constraints are here, and that is perhaps an argument for adopting a relatively fast revision process, so that, in the light of the experience gained, we can have a more thorough discussion before too long, also because this legislation provides for the Ministry of Justice to make announcements with a great deal, and so on. That is why it would be good if we could, in the foreseeable future, have the opportunity to re-evaluate the work we are doing here. I hope that the Minister for Justice will declare his goodwill to at least discuss this opportunity when the Minister for Justice later comes to the floor. This is, of course, linked to one thing that I think we should bear in mind, namely that in these years we are seeing a dramatic increase in the scope for monitoring citizens, and that is why citizens' legal guarantees must also follow and be guaranteed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331115714	Thank you. There are no comments. Next is Mrs. Christina Egelund, Liberal Alliance, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331115726	Thank you, President. Indeed, I recognise much of what the previous rapporteur said, namely that it was a very broad majority in the Danish Parliament that supported Denmark's joining in and implementing the Data Protection Directive in the field of law enforcement. That is why we are here today. This is a prerequisite for us to be able to conclude the agreement on Europol that a broad majority in the Folketing wants. In concrete terms, in some areas there is an extension of citizens' rights, and a number of obligations are imposed on the authorities. That's really good. Especially in a time when our lives are becoming more and more digital and we are leaving more and more traces, it is a really important political focus, also for the Liberal Alliance. As far as the proposed amendments are concerned, Mr President. Søren Søndergaard unveiled the veil, it is some that we in the Liberal Alliance want to look at constructively and positively, because we are also concerned about safeguarding citizens' rights in a more and more digital world and a more and more digitally lived life. Of course, we support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331115839	Thank you. There are no comments. Then it's Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331115846	Thank you. After all, the draft law here goes some way beyond the rules that apply to law enforcement authorities today. Against this background, I should like to make a few comments on the draft law and also some praise and a little criticism. We support the bill. We have a few comments to make on this. Regarding what Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur said, we are also very positive about looking at any amendments that Enhedslisten might make. It is a positive development that the rights of data subjects are being extended in this area of criminal law. This bill ensures that data subjects become aware of the processing of personal data carried out by law enforcement authorities. Basically, in the alternative, we are convinced that authorities must always inform when they process personal data because they may be sensitive data. However, it is clear that there are some concerns to be taken into account: the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of criminal offences. This is all something that could be undermined if the data subjects gained insight. In this way, we think that there is a very good balance between the two considerations. Another innovation in this draft law in relation to the rules in force is that law enforcement authorities have a duty to appoint a data protection officer. This data protection officer must be involved in all matters relating to the protection of personal data. There is a need for experts in the area of data protection law who can both advise the authorities on data protection and ensure that the legislation is complied with. It also facilitates the task of the supervisory authorities to approach an expert from the authority, so we think that is a very positive move. It is also gratifying that the controller and the processor as something new should notify personal data breaches to the supervisory authorities without undue delay and within 72 hours of an incident. The obligation does not apply if it is considered unlikely that the personal data breach will result in a risk to the rights of natural persons. The alternative would have liked to see the obligation to make a notification without a previous probability calculation on the part of the controller, but that is a minor detail on the whole. In this context, it is worth pointing out that if it is found that personal data breaches are likely to pose a high risk to the rights of natural persons, the data subject must be informed. We believe it is appropriate for the data subject to be aware that sensitive information may have come to the attention of outsiders. Then there is another tool that the supervisory authorities have been given with this bill, namely the possibility of bringing questions of violation of the law before the courts. This is an innovation in relation to the rules in force. It is an important tool for the supervisory authorities and it is a tool that ensures that the law is complied with as far as possible and that the courts are involved in the decision on the issue. In conclusion, we are a little critical, because it is important for us to emphasise that there must be no transfer of personal data without proper basis and legal basis. The provisions of this bill include rules on the transfer of personal data if the European Commission has decided that a third country has an adequate level of protection. In the absence of a Commission decision, paragraphs 34 and 35 provide that transfers may nevertheless take place without specified conditions. We think the authorities should be careful about that part of the bill. We would like the supervisory authorities to be informed if there is a transfer of personal data without a decision from the Commission, and not only on request. There are some paragraphs we are critical of, but overall we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331120215	Thank you very much. The next rapporteur is Mrs Zenia Stampe, Radical Left. I don't see Mrs. Zenia Stampe. I should like to welcome the Radicals and say that they also support the bill.' All right, that is the radical rapporteur to be greeted from. Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331120248	Let me start by saying that the SF also supports this bill which, of course, implements the directive on data protection in the field of law enforcement. Many of my colleagues have reviewed many of the elements of the directive that need to be implemented by this bill, but let me just outline a few points that matter to us in the SF. It is very good that we should make it clear that we must be informed by the exchange of personal data. It is also very good that there is now a data controller, also because we have been able to see a large number of cases where it has been unclear whether it has been sloppy, errors, human errors, data processing errors, in terms of the way data have been stored. The Minister of Justice has not been in the chair this long, but I am also sure that the Minister will remember the case of the National Police and the CSC and a large number of other cases. It is so important in a world where more and more data becomes available and where the authorities have more and more of our very sensitive personal data that we ensure that it is properly protected. Sadly, there have been a number of cases that have shown that it has not been. The last thing I want to say is that the SF supports the criticism that has come from, among other things. The alternative to transfer personal data to third countries. It seems uncertain what it is actually necessary to do in order to assess that it is a safe enough third country. It is no longer the case that it is in banana republics and dictatorships where we see data abuse, but it is in a large number of countries, including the United States, where we have seen abuse of sensitive data, illegal surveillance, etc. So that part of it we want to get the drill out and we don't think it's clear enough yet. After all, it is our responsibility and the responsibility of the Minister to ensure the right of citizens to privacy, to provide citizens with sensitive information and to ensure that they are able to be abused both for commercial and political purposes. So that part of it is important for us to discuss with the minister and also discuss in committee whether we can get bored out.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331120530	Thank you. Sir. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331120537	The Conservative People's Party also supports the bill. We have noted that there is not a great difference between the way in which personal data are processed today and what is contained in the directive. In some places, the rights of data subjects are extended and, elsewhere, a number of additional obligations are imposed on the authorities. What is crucial is that there is a reasonable balance between the authorities' ability to use the technology and, at the same time, to ensure the safety of data subjects. The balance seems to us to have been found. We give, among other things. the data subjects increased the possibility of information, access, rectification and deletion of personal data. In some circumstances, the authorities are obliged to inform the data subject of breaches of data. In this way, we will treat the data of the registered citizen dignifiedly and safely. Last but not least, we note that the draft law is a prerequisite for a cooperation agreement between Denmark and Europol. It is an agreement that we earnestly want to combat cross-border crime. In other words, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331120655	Then it's the Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331120702	I would like to thank the rapporteurs for the positive reception of the draft law here. This is a very comprehensive and technical legislative proposal, so I do not think I have said too much, which is why I would just like to address some of the basic elements of the legislative proposal. The main aim of the legislative proposal is to implement the EU directive on data protection in the field of law enforcement, which is the so-called law enforcement directive adopted last April. It is covered by the Danish legal reservation, but as it also extends the Schengen acquis, Denmark can agree to the directive. By decision of 25 October 2016, the Danish Parliament gave its consent to Denmark joining the Directive, which the Government notified to the Council on 26 October 2016. Denmark was then obliged, like the other Member States, to implement the Directive before 6 May 2018. Since Parliament's decision in October last year, however, a lot has happened. In the meantime, the government has thus negotiated with the Commission on Europol and an agreement on continued Danish association with Europol after 1 May 2017, when the new Europol Regulation enters into force. Following the draft agreement, Denmark is required to implement the Law Enforcement Directive by 1 May of this year. It is therefore a condition for the Europol agreement that Denmark implements the Law Enforcement Directive one year before the other Member States. The aim of the draft law is therefore also to fulfil one of the conditions for the conclusion of an agreement on continued association with Europol. The bill applies to the law enforcement authorities, in particular to the police and prosecutors, to the military prosecutors, to the independent police prosecutors, to the criminal services and to the courts. These are the authorities involved in the criminal procedural system in Denmark. The bill applies when these authorities process personal data in order to carry out their core tasks, i.e. the prevention, investigation and prosecution of crime or the enforcement of penalties. The draft law creates an independent framework for when and how law enforcement authorities may collect, transmit and otherwise process personal data. It also provides a framework for the technical and organisational security measures to be taken by the authorities when processing personal data. Many of the rules that apply today when law enforcement authorities process personal data are in line with the requirements of the Law Enforcement Directive and will therefore be continued in the legislative proposal. This is true, for example. the framework for when and how the authorities may process personal data. But there are also certain changes to the rights of citizens and the obligations of the authorities. The draft law thus means that citizens will have more rights. There are, for example: a right to have incorrect information about itself corrected and a right to have data deleted if, for example, they: collected illegally. There is also a right for citizens to be informed if there is a serious breach of data security by law enforcement authorities, for example. where unauthorised persons have access to information relating to a witness in criminal proceedings. The bill also means that new obligations are imposed on law enforcement authorities. For example, the draft law requires the authorities to appoint a data protection officer to advise and monitor compliance by the authorities with the rules of the law. More stringent requirements are also imposed on the authorities when they leave the processing of personal data to others, for example. if the authorities have personal data stored on external servers of a private supplier. However, the bill will not change the basic framework for the processing of personal data by law enforcement authorities. This means, for example, that there is a possibility for law enforcement authorities to limit some of the citizens' rights if there are grounds for doing so. It can, for example, be done. to avoid prejudice to the investigation of criminal proceedings. The Law Enforcement Directive and the Bill show that the protection of personal data is increasingly important as a result of social developments and technological opportunities. This is an area that the government takes very seriously and wants to give priority to. This also applies to law enforcement, where it is important that the processing of personal data by police and other law enforcement authorities is carried out in a proper manner. On the other hand, it is essential that law enforcement authorities have access to use modern and up-to-date tools to counter an increasingly complex crime picture. At the same time, it is, of course, very important to ensure a reasonable balance where the police and the other law enforcement authorities are not burdened with unnecessary burdens when they solve their core tasks on a daily basis. With these comments, I would once again like to thank the rapporteurs for their various contributions. I look forward to further consideration and, of course, I am available to answer any questions that may arise during the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331121214	Thank you. There are a few comments. First, it's sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331121219	Thanks for the speech. I think the Minister quite rightly stressed two points. One is that this is an extremely comprehensive and extremely complicated piece of legislation. The second is, as the Minister rightly pointed out, that the reason why we have the haste we have is because we have to be done by 1 May. This is, so to speak, a bottom-up task, at least for all of us who want to see the parallel agreement or special agreement, what we would call it, whether Europol is in place. But that leaves us with the problem that there are consultation parties that have had to say: we cannot reach it within that time limit. And here in the Folketing, and now Easter also comes, we have very limited time to get through this. That is why I have announced a proposal to introduce a revision clause, so we say that after a relatively short period of time we will look at this again and see if we have got it all together, also in the light of the fact that there is a great deal in this legislative proposal which is left to make announcements and which we are not dealing directly with here in Parliament. So, following on from the excellent points made by the Minister for Justice himself in his speech, I just want to know whether the Minister for Justice will not be in favour of such a proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331121346	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331121350	Thank you. We will have to discuss this further. I am not going to stand here and promise that. However, I will give an undertaking that the notices to be issued under the law will be submitted to consultation with a normal consultation period so that the parties who know about this will have plenty of time to respond.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331121404	Sir. Søren Søndergaard. No, this is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331121410	Thank you. Will the Minister try to put a few words on a situation? it may be a situation that has been, or a hypothetical situation where the Minister would be comfortable that Danish citizens' sensitive information was passed on to third countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20170331121432	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331121433	In this context, I think it is important to say that the legislative proposal does not in itself lead to more information being exchanged with third countries. The directive means that all EU Member States must comply with the same rules when providing information to third countries. Then there are some minimum requirements for the level of data protection in third countries to which Member States transfer data.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331121457	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331121500	Thank you. Now I am just taking the opportunity to discuss how we protect the right of citizens to provide their very private and sensitive information. I am just saying that we have that opportunity now, because we are actually implementing a rather far-reaching directive which has many good elements in it. That is why I think it is right to say that we are now laying down what has been a principle so far, namely that there are various criteria to ensure that the country to which the information is sent has a certain standard. Then I would like to ask the Minister whether he himself has any assessments of what such a situation might be or what type of country or under what circumstances it might be.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331121553	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331121554	Thank you. I have a great deal of sympathy with what the questioner is addressing, and that is, of course, something we need to be aware of. It is just important for me to point out that no more information will be exchanged with third countries than it is today, but of course it is a comprehensive legislative proposal, and if we are going to go deeper into it, I would very much like to reply to written questions here in the further reading so that we can get this drilled out completely.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331121622	Thank you. Then no one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331121636	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 4 April 2017. It's sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten, who, as rapporteur for the questioners, has to give a explanatory statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331121705	The reason why we have asked the Minister to explain this serious issue is that in the last half to full year, we have had a more and more confirmed feeling that it is going the right, really wrong way with the government's action plan 2020, which should, of course, provide some significant reductions in the bad working environment, so that we have safer and healthier jobs. A few consultations in the Committee on Employment have also confirmed our feelings, for the Minister has tried to explain, for example, what the world looks like. in the psychic field. After all, it is deeply shocking to hear that more and more people are actually living under a poor mental working environment and with great strain, that more and more people are living in their workplaces with pain due to muscle and skeletal problems, and there are indications that if we really go into the details of the statistics, the number of serious accidents is also increasing. That is to say, on the three parameters that the Minister and the conciliation circle have said they have a target to reduce by 25% and 20% respectively, it goes exactly the opposite of what is planned. Then, when the Minister was invited to a question debate yesterday, we received a very clear statement from the Minister that it is absolutely right, and that goes all the way to Pomerania with the objectives that have been set. And we are two thirds of the way towards 2020, so there must soon be a change in the state of things if those objectives are to be achieved. That is why we have asked the Minister to explain how he views the situation and what can be done to correct the very, very serious development or winding-up that is currently taking place.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331121905	Thank you. Then it is the answer from the Minister for Employment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331121917	Thank you for the inquiry debate that has been announced to Parliament's parties. I would also like to thank the two parties who are behind it, namely the Enhedslisten and the Socialist People's Party, for having a political debate today in the Assembly Hall on the working environment in Denmark. I think that is quite appropriate and also an important discussion, which is based on some of the current figures which have been published. As I said yesterday during the consultation which took place in the Committee on Health and Consumer Protection, among other things. Mr. Christian Juhl from Enhedslisten, I would also like to start by stating that it should be safe and safe to go to work in Denmark. You can't get sick from doing your job. I think this is a common starting point for all the parties in the Folketing. In 2011, the then VK government agreed with the Social Democrats and the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left on a strategy for working conditions action towards 2020. The parties behind the agreement took, among other things: responsibilities by setting three ambitious targets for the working environment in Denmark. The aim is that by 2020 there should be 25%. fewer serious accidents at work and that the proportion of employees who are mentally overloaded or have muscle and skeletal overloads should be reduced by 20%. These are three key health and safety problems which need to be prevented, including: because we must be able to sustain a longer working life and also to ensure that when you go to work you do not become worn out. The objective was therefore also deliberately very ambitious. I have just published the latest status of achieving the 2020 objectives and, prior to publication, I have also informed the Working Environment Committee and the Employment Committee about developments in this area. According to the latest forecast, the incidence of serious accidents at work has been reduced by 18%. From 2011 to 2014. That's kind of a good number. As I said, the target is a 25% reduction, so in other words, it is a good result within such a short period of time. However, I am fully aware that accidents at work are still a serious problem at work and, of course, that accidents at work may vary from one year to the next. Unfortunately, developments are not going in the right direction when it comes to the other two politically set objectives. In relation to the psychological working environment, the new figures show that from 2012 to 2016 there has been an increase of approx. 17% in the proportion of employees who are mentally overloaded. The same path has been followed during the said period with the proportion of employees with muscle and skeletal overloads, which has increased by approx. 15% In both cases, as I said, the target was a 20% reduction, so unfortunately we are still far away from the target set by the conciliation circle. The figures indicate that work at work is not working as intended and that what we are doing is not enough. There are still far too many people who become mentally and physically overloaded every day when they go to work. We cannot be familiar with all the Danes who do their job, and that is why we must of course act on the new figures that we see. In the light of recent developments, I believe that there is a need for rethinking the work environment and the supervision of the working environment in Denmark. We need to find out what works so that we can turn things around together. I have also discussed the matter with the parties in the Working Environment Association, who agree with it. That is why I have also announced that I will set up a committee of experts to carry out the work and to make recommendations for new and improved work on health and safety. I will not reject any tools to restore the effort in advance. The Danes' working environment is too important for that, and therefore it is also very good that we can have a whole open discussion here today about what might be needed in the future. That is precisely what is beautiful about the political process, namely that we can regularly stop and discuss those initiatives with each other and, above all, evaluate whether there is a need to do more. Then it is also natural to ask why the work on health and safety has failed and whether enough has not been done to achieve the objectives. I must be honest in saying that I do not know why the current effort has not borne the necessary fruit. That is why I think it makes sense now to get the area under review and also to get a committee of experts to deal with the issues we are working on. At the same time, however, I would like to say that I have the impression that much has been done to achieve the 2020 objectives, especially in the last few years. In spring 2015, the parties were involved in the 2011 strategy, i.e.: the then SR government, the Danish People's Party, the Left and the Conservative People's Party, an agreement on what we call a strengthened health and safety effort. The aim of the agreement was to support the strategy by launching 15 initiatives to help achieve the 2020 objectives. The agreement included, among other things: introduced a higher degree of risk-based supervision by the Factory Inspectorate. All parties in the Working Conditions Association agreed that the Factory Inspectorate should be present at the companies and in the sectors where there are the biggest problems with the working environment. The social partners also supported this. The health and safety committee has also taken the initiative to make a more coordinated effort with the main players in the Danish labour market. This means that by 2020 the Danish Labour Inspectorate will cooperate with the occupational health and safety industry communities on common focus points for their efforts. These are good initiatives taken by the SR government, among others. My party, but also with a broad majority in the Folketing, but unfortunately, as I have mentioned, the figures we can now see call for political action. That is why I believe that there is a need to be wiser, that there is also a need for clarification, and that is why, as I have said, I wish to set up a committee of experts. It is still too early to say anything about how the Committee of Experts will approach its work. This is one of the things that can be discussed today in the Danish Parliament, where there can be a good opportunity to give advice to the Working Environment Association and where we can also discuss with each other what challenges we face. What I think is also difficult for me to stand here today and take a stand on are areas that are not priorities in the 2020 strategy, the role of the Factory Inspectorate and OSH organisations or the possibility of strengthening advice and training on the working environment. Let me just say quite briefly that, in relation to the issue of non-priority areas, the organisation of working conditions and of strengthened advice and training, this is something that I believe can be included in the work of the Committee of Experts. But how the final commission will be established and will look and who will be part of it will be discussed later. In conclusion, let me repeat that it is unsatisfactory that the working environment in Denmark is going the wrong way. I therefore see a need to clarify the work on health and safety in the committee of experts I have mentioned, which can therefore also make recommendations for common solutions. In future, the area of health and safety must be an area in which the parties join forces to shoulder political responsibility, just as we have done historically, and this must, of course, also be done jointly with the social partners. We have a joint responsibility to ensure that it is healthy and safe to go to work in Denmark, and that is the starting point that forms the basis for the political process that I am now setting in motion as Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331122739	Thank you. And then we start with the rapporteur's series, and that is first the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331122758	The Working Conditions Act of 1 May 1978 states that the employer must ensure that working conditions are safe and health-friendly. I think we can see that, therefore, all of us who are a little up in the years before have not yet been the case in Denmark. In an unbroken series of years we have had about 60,000 accidents and occupational diseases every year. Therefore, it is appropriate to set targets for how to get out of this situation. It is therefore appropriate that the legislator should also try to find out how to get out of this situation and help the employer. The objectives of the 2020 plan, adopted in 2011 and confirmed by the conciliation parties in 2015, were to reduce serious accidents by a quarter, reduce mental overload by a fifth and reduce muscle and skeletal stress at a fifth. They have all increased and the Minister cannot use any old figures to tell us that there has been a reduction in serious accidents. It is there from 2011 to 2014, but it is now almost historic. From 2014 to 2017, when there really was to be a breakthrough, there is much to indicate in the figures for the ordinary accidents that we got yesterday we got them only yesterday that they also increased. But I will come back to that. The number of workers affected by significant mental stress has increased by more than 83,000 people. Why do I mention that number instead of saying 17 per cent?? That is because, when you want to dedramatize something, you are, of course, content with the percentage. But it has increased by 83,000 people. Every day there are 450,000 Danes living and working under a poor psychological working environment. I'm not the one who figured out the numbers. These are the Minister's own specialists. The number of workers whose work causes significant muscle and skeletal loads has increased by 77,000 people, and every day nearly 300,000 suffer from pain at work. The number of accidents has generally increased from 2012, when there were 41,711, to 42,043. There is not much gain in that direction or real gain in that direction. It is particularly in the construction sector that the number of accidents is increasing by 13%. a year and it is likely that serious accidents with more than 30 days of disease, which are the target figure in the 2020 plan, will also have the same increasing trend. The social costs are very, very high when we have accidents and occupational diseases. There are medical visits, treatments and rehabilitation and pensions, and it costs. It costs a two-digit billion sum... it was calculated 10 years ago. In addition to this, the huge losses of production caused by the companies have to be excluded from the workforce. But it is the workers who pay the highest price in terms of illness, but, deprivation, pain, treatment courses and lost jobs. Ultimately, you go to sickness benefit, end up in resource development, get early retirement or die. The explanation for the increase is simple: the Factory Inspectorate and the prevention in the companies have been spared. The Labour Inspectorate has lost 80 million. kr. Annually, while there are 1,248 billion. kr. in the Prevention Fund and collect dust. They must be actively used in a proper working environment. Yesterday the Minister said that you do not need to have a doctor in the working environment to see that it is wrong with the working environment. He's absolutely right about that. There is also no need to have a PhD in the working environment to get started in order to strengthen preventive action. A trip to companies and local trade unions and unions would give clear advice to any perplexed minister. I can certainly recommend that to the Minister, and it is guaranteed to be more useful than making a jelly jar, which is at risk of becoming when you make a specialist committee. Action must now be taken and, if a committee is set up, it must under no circumstances delay concrete activity. We know what it takes, and so does the Minister. He has been taught time and time again about it, and I do not want to say: What did I say in 2011, what did I say in 2015? It's quite pointless. Today, SF and Enhedslisten have put forward a proposal on the psychological working environment - this was mentioned this morning and the proposal for adoption that we are proposing points to a number of concrete preventive measures. All in all, it is five minutes to twelve if the 2020 targets are to be achieved. Disability means that every day, including Saturday and Sunday, there are at least five people who die because of a poor working environment, at least 54 people who suffer from work-related illnesses, at least 115 people who are affected by an accident at work every day of the year, including at weekends. It is the specific human suffering that now rests on the Minister's shoulders if no action is taken. Then I'd like to speak on behalf of Mr. Knox. Karsten Hønge, SF, and the undersigned are allowed to read: Suggested adoption The Danish Parliament instructs the Government to increase efforts to achieve the 2020 plan's objectives. Parliament finds it extremely worrying that the problems of the psychological working environment and muscle and skeletal overloads are growing considerably. Before the opening of the Danish Parliament in October, the Government is required to present a concrete plan containing: the legislation and efforts to improve the mental health and safety at work must be strengthened. The preventive action of companies must be increased through systematic action, better training and greater influence for health and safety representatives. The obligation to elect OSH representatives must be extended to all companies with 5 or more employees. The Factory Inspectorate must be strengthened by upgrading at least 140 people, training and the involvement of employees in the planning of action. Strengthen companies' access to health and safety advice. Reduction of damage from chemical work at 25 per cent. by 2020. The Danish Parliament notes that there is a capital in the Fund for Prevention and Maintenance of 1,248 billion. kr., which can be used to finance the above bets. • V 64).
ParlaMint-DK_20170331123448	The proposed adoption will be included in the further negotiations. We thank the rapporteur. We move on to the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331123503	Thank you for that, President. First of all, I would also like to thank both of you. Christian Juhl and Mr. Karsten Hønge to raise this question about working conditions. For Social Democracy, it is important that it is safe and healthy to go to work every day and that we constantly focus on reducing the number of accidents and injuries, that we focus on reducing wear and tear, not least in view of the increased lifetime that means that we have to work for several years, and finally to reduce the psychological stress that more and more people are being exposed to. That is our aim, and it is also our approach to the work of the Working Environment Committee. We are fully behind the objectives and the initiatives that have been agreed, both in 2011 and in 2015 by 2020. Having said that, however, we are deeply dissatisfied with the cuts and deteriorations that have been made over the years by changing bourgeois governments. We have said this on every occasion, and I would like to repeat it here today. However, with the figures we have now received for developments, which have been so well examined by various rapporteurs and the minister here from the platform, it is our turn to look backwards. This is a very serious situation, and that is why we will look forward and take an active part in the work to find the solutions that are needed and those that work, contrary to what we have seen so far. I think it is very wise of the Minister to start afresh with regard to the forward-looking efforts to ensure a good working environment. It may be that some of what we have done all along works, but there must also be room for a new effort, new ideas, new initiatives and new cooperation. In the Social Democratic Party we welcome the setting up of a committee of experts to make suggestions on how to knit a new effort together. All good forces are needed, both here in the Folketing, among researchers, the social partners and everyone else who can contribute to this process. I have noted that there have already been several reports on yesterday's press release, and that is welcome, because it shows that there is indeed an interest out there in what we are talking about in here. I really hope that this will not end up being a numerical war, but that the focus will be on the fact that developments are going in exactly the opposite direction to what we had in mind and maybe in fact are running away for us. My call must be that those who want to be serious parties in the future process should not bury themselves in trenches, because then it may be that they cannot be seen or heard. In the Social Democratic Party we are deeply concerned about the developments that have taken place in relation to wearing out and poor mental health and safety at work, but we look forward to the situation being dealt with quickly and we look forward to the forthcoming work in the conciliation circle. We are going to set new targets, but I also believe that we will be setting new standards so that the developments we have seen can be stopped and turned in a different direction. For it must be both safe and healthy to go to work. Then, on behalf of the conciliation circle, I would like to say that it is the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party, the Left, the Liberal Alliance, the Radical Left and the Conservatives read out proposals for adoption: Proposals for adoption • It must be safe, safe and healthy to go to work in Denmark. The Danish Parliament therefore notes with satisfaction that the number of serious accidents at work has been reduced by almost one fifth in the period from 2011 to 2014. At the same time, however, the Danish Parliament regrets the increase in the period from 2012 to 2016 in the proportion of employees who are mentally overloaded (ceilinged by approx. 17%), or which has muscle skeletal overloads (cought with approx. 15%). The negative development in relation to mental and physical overloads shows that overall OSH efforts do not work as intended. The Danish Parliament finds this development worrying, and it is therefore necessary to clarify the work on health and safety at work. The Danish Parliament notes in this connection that the Government, with the involvement of the Working Environment Association, will set up a committee of experts to provide the work on working conditions with a view to making recommendations for a new and improved effort in this area. • V 65).
ParlaMint-DK_20170331123949	The proposal for adoption read out will be included in the further negotiations. There are two who have asked for brief comments, and the first is Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331123959	Thank you. Now I do not want to ask why historical figures from 2011 to 2014 are being used in the case of serious accidents when you have the entire ministry at your disposal to get the right answers. Well, we can write that together afterwards. First of all, it is fine to recognise that it is amber-soundingly wrong, but why on earth has the conciliation circle refused to listen when we have repeatedly warned about this? In 2011, 2015, 2016 and 2017, we have warned the conciliation circle that this would not succeed, but you have just turned your back on it and you have not even wanted to involve those parties that are not in the conciliation circle. One has not listened to the many, many good advices of the trade union movement. Why haven't they?
ParlaMint-DK_20170331124041	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331124045	This is how we work in the Social Democratic Party, at least, that we listen a lot both to the social partners and also to other parties in the Folketing. However, in this particular case I can say, first of all, that the figures that have now come are based on the research carried out by the National Research Institute, and there we must at least stress that these are figures that we can rely on to vote. Secondly, I think it is wrong for the questioner to say that we have not reacted at all in the other years. On the contrary, we have just responded, and that is why changes have been made to the negotiations that have taken place in the conciliation circle, for example. in 2015, as clearly stated. And in this situation I have also listened to others, among others. the social partners.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331124143	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331124144	Not me. I haven't been invited to a single meeting of the conciliation circle, at all. I think we could at least listen to some of us who have worked a whole life with working environment and safety in order to get some ideas. Then you can then discard them if you cannot afford to introduce them or if you politically disagree with them. But listening was the least you could do. I find that disappointing. So I would like to ask the question, and that is the most important question, and the rapporteur is allowed to answer that first: why on earth is the only concrete offer in this proposal for adoption that a specialist committee should be set up? We know there's a series of things that help right away. Why should nothing concrete be set in motion today, instead of waiting and setting up a specialist committee?
ParlaMint-DK_20170331124227	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331124228	I think I'll start with the last one, because it's pretty important. The questioner needs to hear what I am saying in this debate and I also believe what the Minister is saying as a recognition that the work done so far is not working. The questioner does not make me stand up and say: I know exactly how to solve this. The statements of all those who have done so up to now have been put to shame. We can see that it doesn't work. If it is the case that the proposals contained in the proposal for adoption tabled here today by Enhedslisten and SF are working, then that is quite fine, and I think that the committee of experts should accept them. I think it is really important that all things come on the table and that everything gets involved in this process. Then you get a look at what kind of things work and what kind of things don't work.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331124324	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331124326	The chairman of the LO, Lizette Risgaard, commented on these dramatic figures yesterday with a statement that she hoped it was a flare that was seen from the offices here at Christiansborg. And now, with Mr. Knox... Lennart Damsbo-Andersen often refers to the fact that social democracy is, after all, part of a conciliation circle which is clearly hard to proud of, what co-responsibility does the Social Democrats feel for this dramatic development, do they feel in the wrong direction?
ParlaMint-DK_20170331124353	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331124354	But I can say this very briefly: I and we feel full responsibility for the fact that things have gone in the wrong direction. I think that is very clear from what I myself say and from what is contained in the proposal for adoption which lies with the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331124410	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331124411	I understand that the response and response to this dramatic development for which the Social Democratic Party is now taking responsibility is that we must set up a committee. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20170331124421	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331124422	The reaction is not just to set up a committee. The reaction is that we believe that there is a need to take a break in the measures we are taking. I can see that, sir. Christian Juhl is just asking what's the point of that. No, I don't want things to stop. But we can just see that what we thought worked, and what I am sure a lot of people in the trade union movement have also thought worked, has obviously not worked. A lot of things have happened. There have been cuts. There have also been cuts after these goals. But we're not sure what's working. That is why, from our point of view, it is really, really important that what we are doing now is done right. Every stone is turned. All proposals will be examined. And then we have to do the right things forward. Because we cannot live with the situation we have at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331124511	No one else has asked for short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur and move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Beazley. Bent Bøgsted from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331124525	Thank you, President. I don't think anyone in here doesn't want us to have a good working environment. That is what we have been working on all along, and that is why the 2020 plan laid down a request for 25%. fewer accidents at work, 20 per cent. fewer mentally overloaded and 20 per cent. less with muscle skeletal overload. I also believe that one of the reasons for the increase in mental stress is that through legislation we have made it more legal to talk about the psychological problems that exist, so that we have just put more emphasis on that part. That is certainly part of what the conciliation circle has done. What then is the reason why there has been an increase in whether it is because it has become more legal to talk about or whether there are other reasons, for example. That people have become more pressured I am not in a position to assess. But I can at least see that there are some people around who feel that they are more pressured in their work and therefore may also find it easier to get sick. We can certainly see in the public sector that it is the employees here who have the greatest sickness absence, and I know that there are many who say that they have been under pressure. This is also why municipalities have begun to reduce the case files of the case workers, so they have more time for everything and therefore do not feel so pressured. There could be many solutions to what needs to be done. But it is not good enough that there has been the increase in the number of mental overloads and overloads of the muscle skeleton. When we look at which companies have the greatest burdens, we know that a company like Copenhagen Metro has had a frightening number of people who have been injured and have been overloaded. But that's not what's doing it alone. It's just that, as has also been said here, we have to look at it and find out what it is that exactly works and what it is that needs to be done. It may be that we can say in here exactly what we think needs to be done, but I had a meeting with the BAT cartel and they said that they did not think it was the legislation that was wrong, but that it was not being implemented in the workplace. Then, of course, we will have to look at how we can get employers to comply with the legislation we have, because it cannot help either if, when we sit and work on it in here, we simply tighten up the legislation and say that one step after another should be taken if it is not complied with in the workplace anyway. That is what I think should also be part of what the Committee of Experts should look at: how to get employers to comply with the legislation that exists. Because, of course, I believe it when the BAT cartel says that they do not believe that this is the case immediately. Some adjustments may have to be made, but as a whole, the legislation works well enough as a basis for a good working environment. Then, of course, we need to get out and get to the employers and find out whether it is information that is missing, whether you just don't care about health and safety legislation in the workplace or what it is that does. That is what we need to find out, and I am sure that the Minister will also include it in what the Committee of Experts will have to look at when it is set up. And I also hope that this committee of experts will be wide-ranging and that both employers and employees will be included in it, so that it is not just some professor who sits and has to work with it. But whoever will be there and what they will work for is, of course, something we need to talk about in the conciliation circle. But one thing is clear: that is not good enough, and I will admit that to the questioners. Therefore, it is also good that Enhedslisten and SF have asked the question here. For it is not good enough with the increases that have taken place over the years after we reached the agreement on 2020. This has happened through 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015 and until 2016. Then I heard that mr. Christian Juhl said that there were some figures for accidents at work that followed. It's not in the report that came. It only goes to 2016. So, of course, we must also have a look at what it looks like in 2016 when the committee of experts is to be set up. We shall, of course, see what figures we can get there in order to get the right basis for the Committee of Experts' assessment. However, there should be no doubt that the conciliation circle will, of course, seek to correct the legislation on working conditions and work to ensure that there will be a fall. And we've still gone 3 years until 2020 to make it right. In those words, of course, the Danish People's Party supports the proposal for adoption that has been put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331125043	There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331125047	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech by the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. I'm about to move my head, not, the hair of myself, the other thing would be dangerous. DF says it is done in the conciliation circle, and they have now said for six years that they know best for themselves. But I have said time and time again, while I have been sitting here in the Folketing, why can we not share the knowledge we have? Why can't I contribute good ideas? And the answer has been, 'cause you're not a member of the conciliation circle. You're self enough. The Danish People's Party then belongs to the Danish People's Party, which has helped to close the Factory Health Services, which could provide advice that has helped to reduce the Factory Inspectorate by 140 posts, which have helped to weaken the working environment organisation in the workplace, which has helped to weaken the training of the people responsible for the working environment and safety in the companies. Is it completely wrong to say that I have repeatedly warned the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party that these measures are not enough?
ParlaMint-DK_20170331125151	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331125153	Well, sir. Christian Juhl has said time and time again that Mr. Christian Juhl does not think that any of what the conciliation circle does works. That is absolutely correct. Of course, the conciliation circle has also listened to employers, we have listened to trade unions and what they have said. Compared to what Mr. Christian Juhl mentions here, we should remember that the figures we have here are for 2012, 2013 and 2014, when Mr. Christian Juhl was, after all, a support party for a former government and, as far as I know, there have been no cuts unless Mr. Christian Juhl has voted in favour of it. The cuts that Mr. Christian Juhl talks about the fact that a pool has been set aside; then it has expired, and then there have been redundancies. It's regrettable, but that's how it is when you have this elevator traffic in the Labour Inspectorate. That is also why, in the conciliation circle, we are talking about having a firm basis, that it must always be the firm framework within which to work. We have to get out of this elevator traffic, where an amount is added; then some are hired, and when it has expired, they have to be dismissed again. Of course, we have to stop that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331125257	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331125259	I'm sorry to have to say this, but sir... Bent Bøgsted is completely out of the question. I explained four areas where he has contributed to serious deterioration. Unfortunately, I have tried to run them in with a very slow social democracy at the helm with some patchy solutions. I would also like fundamental solutions. But not even now that Mr. Bent Bøgsted has the influence, he's using it for anything. He says to Fagbladet 3F that no more money will be spent on the working environment. How does Mr. Bent Bøgsted that you can get the Labour Inspectorate to work without more money? How does Mr. Bent Bøgsted, that you can get a health and safety organisation to work without better training? How does Mr. Bent Bøgsted you can make this work without better advice to companies?
ParlaMint-DK_20170331125344	- Sir? - Yes, sir. Bent Bøgsted is allowed to answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331125345	I understand, sir. Christian Juhl listens to everything that comes from Fagbladet 3F, but I have not said that less money will be spent. I have said that at this stage we could not say where the level should be. That the journalist then writes what he wants and fits in Mr. Christian Juhl's hug is so irrelevant to me, because I have also talked about getting away from the elevator traffic, that we should have a fixed basis, but where it should lie, I could not say anything about. I do not think any of us here today can say anything about where the level of the Factory Inspectorate should be and how much money should be allocated to the Factory Inspectorate. I don't think anyone can. But I'm sorry the paper 3F doesn't write what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331125431	Sir. Karsten Hønge for a short remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331125433	Has this dramatic, negative development, which was documented by figures yesterday, come completely behind the Danish People's Party? Yesterday I heard a representative of the FOA say that it wasn't rocket science to figure out that we've ended up where we are. Is it rocket science for the conciliation circle?
ParlaMint-DK_20170331125455	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331125456	No, I don't think so, because we're not scientists.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331125504	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331125508	The answer is that I simply do not have the courage to go ahead with Question No. 2.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331125509	Then there are no further comments to the rapporteur. We say thank you and move forward in the rapporteur's line. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Klaus Markussen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331125521	Thank you. I would like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs of the Socialist People's Party and the Enhedslisten for raising this question debate today. It should be safe, safe and healthy to go to work in Denmark. This should not actually be discussed. In the Left we see that a good physical and mental working environment is based on a shared responsibility between the management of the individual company and the employees employed in the company. It is a bottom-up task that we must prevent occupational injuries and provide the best possible safety for the many people who work and contribute to our society every day. As has already been mentioned in the speeches of the Minister and the other rapporteurs, the then VK government reached a broad agreement in 2011 on an ambitious strategy to improve the working environment by 2020. As has also been mentioned, the targets are that by 2020 there will be 25%. fewer serious accidents at work, 20 per cent. fewer mentally overloaded and 20 per cent. less with muscle and skeletal overload. In fact, I think this is worth dwelling on because it is a good and ambitious agreement which, across political divisions, demonstrates a political will to address the challenges of working conditions that we have in the Danish labour market. The rapporteurs ask in the question debate about the current state of play in achieving these ambitious objectives, and I would like to say that yesterday the Minister published a study by the National Research Centre for Safety and Health at Work which has also been mentioned earlier today which shows that our working environment is going the wrong way with regard to two of the objectives set. Let us not for a moment allow ourselves to be positive in relation to the trend in the number of serious accidents at work. Here we see a reduction of 18%. From 2011 to 2014. It is a relatively large fall in such a short time, and I still think it is worthwhile to rejoice at. But we must also note that there will be an end to this joy in the first place. Because in relation to the psychological working environment and muscle and skeletal overloads, as has also been pointed out, what has gone in the wrong direction. And the Left is not hiding that is both serious and very worrying. It is therefore also gratifying that the government is setting up a committee of experts to look at the work in the field of health and safety and to make concrete recommendations for a new and improved effort. We in the Left can only back that up. I think it is crucial to listen to the debate here today that we now look forward and ask ourselves: what is it that works? And we should not only ask what it is that works, but how there is a need for us to come closer to finding causes, contexts and suggestions for solutions in cooperation with experts, and not only from experts, but in cooperation with experts, and that we use research and the enormous knowledge that we have about the working environment • we and all the people who work with the working environment in Denmark. It must and must be a joint task for us to get this development right and to get it right now. And then we won't get far in pointing fingers. I do not think we should dwell on the negative developments in this debate more than necessary. That is certainly not the Left's approach to things, and I think that the discussion is too serious for that, in fact. I think it is important that we look forward and that we look forward together, because we have a task together. And the task is to get closer to causes and contexts and not just to find solutions, but to find the right solutions to the challenges we have. And that is where I think it is the right decision for the Minister to show action and to set up the Committee of Experts. Of course, the Left fully supports this, because no one should go to work in poor conditions on the Danish labour market. This should not be discussed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331130010	Thank you. Two have asked for brief comments. The first is sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331130014	The Left rapporteur said not to look backwards and point fingers. So, we must not mention that you have been given advice year after year, indeed sometimes month after month, and that they have been rejected by ministers and by the conciliation circle. But I guess it's okay to say you've had a lot of advice. There are one metre of reports, perhaps more, which have not been used, to improve the working environment. There are countless requests on the Minister's bookshelfs from unions and local trade unions about how to do this better and they have not been used. So what does the rapporteur think a committee of experts can do, and what should happen in the meantime, knowing that at least three or four things can help in the first place? I have nothing against some people in the conciliation circle making themselves a bit smarter, because that seems to be what is needed. But why can't we act at the same time? Why should we say that there must be a committee of experts and that it must then take its course and that we must see what happens and while there are people who lose their lives and destroy their health.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331130127	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331130129	In fact, as I said just now, I think the discussion is too serious for clues. I hope that we can work together in the future and a process that is about how we learn more about the issues we have. It is so easy to say that there are meters of information, or that we have always said so. I think it is important for everyone to make an effort to offer what you have. I think it is important to have an open mind when it comes to not having locked positions, because the reality is that we can see that much of the work that has been done has not been sufficient. And then, as I see it, it is a good way forward that we avoid clues and remember why we are in politics, namely to make a difference and look ahead and, hopefully, use this very serious situation to stand together to find solutions that work.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331130229	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331130234	Well, I have also spent nine tenths of my time today making suggestions on how to move forward. I have been standing outside the doors of the conciliation circle for seven years asking if I could give some advice and give some ideas and help make a difference. What does the rapporteur think is the answer to that? That is why I am asking to be allowed to take part in making some concrete proposals so that we might be able to do two things. You can set that committee of experts in motion, but you can also act at the same time. I would be really, really sorry if, as we look forward, we let six months go by, when some experts were talking and wiser, while nothing happened when we know that the Factory Inspectorate is bleeding and when we know that there are problems out there in the companies that we could do something about tomorrow.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331130316	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331130319	What I have heard so far in this debate has not, in fact, been an exclusive approach. In fact, I have heard an inclusive approach, both from other rapporteurs, but certainly also from the Minister, also in relation to how we should put together the terms of reference and put together the committee of experts. In addition, I would ask everyone to bear in mind that the solution is not necessarily legislation; that the solution is not necessarily legislation alone or money, but the interaction between the things we do.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331130353	Sir. Karsten Hønge for a short remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331130357	I have heard the rapporteur's wish that we should look ahead, obviously understood that we should not look at yesterday's report which shows that tens of thousands of people are being grindn up in the country's jobs. I would like to return to the figures that came yesterday about which a representative of the FOA says that it is certainly for the FOA not rocket science to reach that conclusion, and now it may be that I have a little more luck when I ask the rapporteur of the Left: was it rocket science for the Left and the Conciliation Group?
ParlaMint-DK_20170331130423	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331130426	This isn't rocket science. Karsten Hønge. This is a specific political task which is quite serious and which needs to be resolved, and I also hope that the SF will want to engage and engage in quite specifically to contribute to making constructive and forward-looking proposals rather than asking whether we are surprised or pointing fingers.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331130450	Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331130453	I think it is only fair that every party in the conciliation circle should be asked what responsibility it has for the fact that it has gone as wrong as it is, while, incidentally, people are being told, as the rapporteur did before, that it may be that by 2020, as is still a few years away, everything will be corrected and everything will be very good and everyone is happy. There's no sign of that. When such a dramatic mistake has been made, how could it be possible for it to be corrected in the next few years, as the rapporteur points out, I suppose, somewhat optimistically?
ParlaMint-DK_20170331130517	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331130522	I do not think I hear that message, either from the Minister or from other rapporteurs of the conciliation circle, that it is going well. On the contrary, I hear the message that everyone else who has stood before me in this debate has stressed the seriousness of this situation and has stressed the need for action. And I note with satisfaction that the Minister has taken action, and I hope that the SF also welcomes this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331130550	No one else has asked for short comments, so we thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Laura Lindahl, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331130600	Thank you. Here too, I would like to thank SF and Enhedslisten for raising the debate on working conditions in Denmark. Denmark has one of the world's best working environments, and I personally believe that this is because we are a rich and prosperous society which can afford to give priority to the area. That is why it is also important that we continue to pursue a policy of economic growth, because, in addition to giving citizens more freedom in their own lives, it actually helps to improve such things as the working environment in the long run, and that is important. A good working environment is important both for the individual in relation to having a safe and secure work, and there is no doubt that healthy, healthy and happy employees are the very best and most productive employees, and it is very good for Denmark's economy. Healthy, healthy and happy employees are probably also better parents and thus also provide a better framework for the Danish families. Thus, the working environment extends into very many aspects of human life, and therefore it is really important to focus on the area. Fortunately, we can also see that companies are giving priority to this area. They do so in the recognition that employees are the most important resource and that employees' welfare is important when they want to run a profitable business. A good working environment is a competitive parameter when it comes to attracting the best employees, and that is a good thing. In fact, I believe that this is one of the most important things in working for a better working environment. But it is also relevant to focus on political issues. The former VK government, together with a number of other parties, took initiatives to improve efforts. The approach adopted as an overall approach, which targets the efforts more, we fully support in the Liberal Alliance, because that makes good sense. Some ambitious targets were also set in relation to serious accidents and mental and physical overloads. Now we have seen the mid-term review, and here we can first of all welcome the fact that the number of serious accidents at work has fallen sharply. Unfortunately, however, we see an increase in the number of overloads, both mental and physical, in fact, a fairly large increase. It is really sad reading, but I also think that we need to look at the figures. We need to look at the measurement method, because for me it seems rather strange that there is such a wide variation from the measurements we had in 2014 and to the measurements we have today. In 2014, there was an improvement of 12%. in this area, and now we have a worsening. It's very, very large fluctuations, and I'm curious what the scientists think these huge fluctuations are due to. Is it really an expression of reality? I'm also thinking that we need to take a broader look at this issue. What is generally happening in this area? Is this linked to jobs in isolation and/or should we look at the issue more broadly? I think that is actually relevant to look at. That is why the Liberal Alliance fully supports the Minister's desire to set up a committee of experts to help us become wiser. We hope that this committee of experts will be involved very broadly, so that you have both business leaders who are already role models in front of you, i.e. skilled managers who understand that a good working environment must be part of the culture of a company, and therefore also the social partners, and who else could be relevant. However, I do think it is quite important that we in this Chamber and among the parties of the Danish Parliament help to indicate who it is relevant to have a seat in such a group of experts. Because we know that the output of a group of experts is very crucial in terms of who is in the group. And the Liberal Alliance supports the proposal for adoption, which Mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen read earlier.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331131012	There is a request for a brief comment from Mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331131017	Thank you. I am well aware of the fact that when you are called to account for your actions, you say that we should then look at whether the figures are now true, or at the inter-calculations and measurement methods. Does the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur question the fact that there are more people who have a poor mental working environment, that there are more people who have muscle and skeletal loads in their working environment and that the Factory Inspectorate is in a critical situation? They are actually bleeding; there are more than 100 employees who have travelled because the management was completely out of control and because the working conditions mean that they do not deliver the results that they can deliver. There is also too low a level of training in companies. In the four areas I would like to know whether the Liberal Alliance raises doubts that this is the trend, whether or not there is a figure that has been calculated plus/minus 10%. wrong or 5%. wrong for that matter. I'd like to know if that's all you're questioning.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331131118	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331131120	What I am saying is that I think it seems rather strange that from 2012 to 2016 there should have been an increase of 31%. That's what the numbers show, and that's why I'm just thinking that we need to take a closer look at this. We need to make sure, with the input of talented people, that is, the researchers who have sat with the reports, that this is really right. Because what's the reason for this? I'm not saying that's not true. I'm just saying that I really want to learn more about these numbers and that I'd like to dive deeper into these numbers, and I don't think anyone might mind. It would be strange if you did not want to look into the figures when you think they seem suspicious.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331131208	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331131213	I think it's hard to say that they seem suspicious. It's like somebody's been manipulating things. It is not the Minister, and it is not me who has done things, but it is a third party. These are some of the fine PhDs in the working environment that some have behind it. But you can spend a lot of time not doing anything, and I would like to hear this: does the rapporteur disagree with the Minister for Employment who said yesterday that you do not need a PhD in the working environment to understand that it is rambering wrong with the working environment and that we have to do something? President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). 2 is: what will the rapporteur do to ensure that it does not become a jar of jelly and that, after all, something is happening in those areas where we know that some improvements can be made?
ParlaMint-DK_20170331131253	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331131257	When I say'suspectable', it is not the people who have sat with it, but, as I said at the outset, it is the measurement method that I would like to look at: is it quite comparable? Is this the same one used in 2012 and 2016? Because if so, there has been an increase of 31%. It just seems like a very violent increase. In relation to whether you need a PhD to see that there's something scarfing wrong, as I said, I'd like to take a broader look at this. I would like to know whether this is something specifically linked to companies or whether it is a major social problem that we need to address, and that is to be sure that we are hit right when we make some initiatives. As I hear the Minister, he's preoccupied with this. I hear a minister who wants to do something in this area, and otherwise I can assure him. Christian Juhl says that the Liberal Alliance will make sure this isn't gonna be a jelly jar, because we're preoccupied with this, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331131346	No one else has asked for short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur and move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Alternate's report. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331131356	Thank you. And the alternative also sends a greeting and a thank you to Enhedslisten and SF for raising this query. As several rapporteurs have already pointed out, going to work in Denmark has become more dangerous. For example: The National Research Centre for Safety and Health at Work has carried out a large study which shows that since 2012 17 per cent have been spent. more people in employment who are overwhelmed mentally and that there are 15 per cent. several who have overloads of muscles and skeletals. We therefore fully agree with what the Minister says, namely that the work on working conditions has failed. It doesn't work as intended. When I saw the status of the health and safety effort towards 2020, my first thought was that the Danish labour market and especially the people who work in the companies deserve a proper examination of this area. In 2015, a political agreement was made to reinforce the efforts agreed between the conciliation parties in 2011 and, when it does not work, we think in the alternative that it is wise to take a step back and investigate the area properly before building initiatives on top of again. However, it is important that we use documented knowledge about what it works in this area, both from companies, authorities and parties. We need to ensure that the instruments we use are easier to integrate into the ordinary operation of companies. In addition to the construction industry, the biggest increases in problematic working conditions have occurred in sectors with public employees, e.g. police, prisons, day care facilities, day care facilities, home care, education and hospitals. That is why it is important that we examine the framework conditions for public employees. We believe that, as part of the debureaucratisation process, public employment must also look at how to reduce the burden on working conditions. Public employment accounts for a large part of the negative development, and we believe that one of the reasons may be the time robbers, such as registrations, measurements, administration, etc. I think it's a good idea, but I think it's a good idea. We would also like to look at the possibility of re-establishing holistic action, for example. in relation to the construction industry, which is one of the places where there is a particular increase in the number of accidents at work. We would like to see a holistic effort focusing on the contribution from builders, designers, contractors and employees, so that the working environment is already envisaged in the planning of projects and the efforts include all four parties in a construction project. Finally, we believe that there should be a focus on the psychological working environment in future efforts. This is where occupational injuries increase most in scale. Now a proclaimed investigation is never a guarantee that something effective will happen, and we have seen many proclaimed investigations in this Parliament that turned out to be pickles. But I think the table's gonna catch here. I mean, the table catches. The negative developments in the field of health and safety are simply so clear and well documented that I do not think it is a viable way to do this properly. I also think that the Minister and the conciliation circle are a purely flag in relation to the problems. Therefore, in the alternative, we are looking for a strong and representative group of experts who dare to put their finger on the sore points and thus provide us with an analysis of the area that we can use to develop and clarify the most effective tools to reduce the number of physical and psychological injuries, so that going to work in Denmark will be significantly less dangerous.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331131716	One person has asked for a brief comment, and that is Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331131721	Thank you. I would like to ask the alternative rapporteur why a committee of experts should be set up. Period. Well, it wasn't yesterday that we started doing good work in Denmark; we have done that as long as I have lived and longer than that. Why can't we use some of the really good advice? Why can we not say to the Minister: Well now you have to admit that the Labour Inspectorate is bleeding and that we have to give them some more resources; up with the box? There's even 1.2 billion. kr. in the preventive fund, which the Minister's predecessor repeatedly said we should not touch. In other words, is it not time to use some of the preventive means for what we know to be needed: training at work, proper labour inspection, such things as elementary things that everyone knows work? Do we have to wait to get it started?
ParlaMint-DK_20170331131815	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331131817	Thank you. But why should the experts not include all the good advice and experience, including the good advice that the rapporteur himself has given for so many years? I expect these experts to do that and to mix it with new knowledge and take the step that allows us to build something on this legislation that works. So the reason we support a study is that we simply have a great faith that everything is going to create the most value.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331131845	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331131847	Two thirds of the time by 2020 has now passed. If we let a committee of experts work half a year or a whole year, there will be a few years left. There are tens of thousands of people who, during that period, have to destroy their health. We know that there are some things we can set in motion now, and we can then set in motion the brilliant ideas of the Committee of Experts once the committee has finished. But what is the reason why you just have to turn your back on those people now, when we know that the Factory Inspectorate must have to, we might as well get started immediately; we don't have to wait for anyone. Everyone who works a little bit with this knows that it takes.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331131930	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331131932	I have not heard it say anywhere that that expert group will spend a year making recommendations and results. I hope it's going to work much faster. When it is the case that we believe that this should be a priority, it is because we believe that all in all we can create the most value by now thinking properly about and having the case analysed and then having some tools made that are well designed and effective.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331132001	Sir. Karsten Hønge for a short remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331132004	I'd like to hear Mr. Knox. Torsten Gejl, if there is one of these six initiatives proposed by Enhedslisten and SF, as Mr. Torsten Gejl doesn't support.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331132013	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331132015	We think that many of these initiatives are good. Whether or not they have to have this exact form, whether or not it should be them, is what we get the answer to when we examine the matter in more detail. But we think, for example, that it is good to upgrade the psychological working environment. As for that it is because I can fear that it will be difficult and it has also been in the past to find one in all Danish companies of less than five employees. I can imagine that you can also work with solutions where it will be a common cause for the company and a matter in the value chain for that company, also on a competitive parameter, to show that a good working environment can attract good employees.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331132116	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331132117	So out of these six specific proposals, or indeed these are seven proposals, in that we also have a proposal that capital from the Fund for Prevention and Conservation should be taken into account, so there was a slight question mark over one point. Moreover, it is widely understood in the industry, I would say, as a good initiative, that some more health and safety representatives will be elected. These health and safety representatives are, by the way, the types of people who work together. I simply need to get the answer to my question again. We can say that there are seven initiatives and that there is a little bit of doubt about one, and that is enough for the alternative to give loose support to a committee of experts, although everyone who is experts knows that this is what is needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331132200	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331132202	It's a legitimate question. Nor do I know whether it is exactly 140 people who are to be employed in the Labour Inspectorate. It also depends on what that study says and what kind of work it is best to do. There are also some points that I could call for, i.e. proposals that make it more a company's project and part of a company's value chain to create a very good working environment, because it is also a very important thing for companies nowadays, i.e. a competitive parameter, to have good arrangements for employees on many fronts.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331132242	No one else has asked for short remarks, so we thank Mr. Torsten Gejl. We move on in the rapporteur's line to the Radical Left rapporteur, Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331132256	Thank you, President. I also think, as previous rapporteurs, that it is very good that we have this debate on the work on working conditions today. I have to say that I am pleased that the Minister has taken the objections of the conciliation circle very seriously. It is a completely pure recognition, respect for it because we cannot just go on as before, and that is what our joint proposal for approval in the conciliation circle is clearly about. It goes the wrong way with the psychological working environment and with the stressful physical working environment in relation to muscle/skeletal damage. And now we are agreed to have the coal digging area as soon as possible, and thus we also agree that we need a new and reorganised effort for the working environment. Last year, in the Radical Left, we proposed ten concrete measures to improve the working environment and also played it into the conciliation circle, and now things are getting worse. Specifically, we need to look at the cuts in the Labour Inspectorate, because we need to be able to keep a better eye on work injuries and social dumping. We also want to make a massive contribution to prevention, among other things. through health and safety advice, special supervisory efforts that are 20 times more effective than the risk-based supervision that we have today. The preventive measures that we are proposing also include an industry-specific effort. We also need more research into the psychological working environment. We would like to see an effort to prevent violence because every year violence at work costs us hundreds of millions of kroner in sick absence, and because there is also a great need for us to learn more about how mental wear and tear affects a working life. So we have proposed a whole series of things. In addition to improving conditions in the labour market before you become worn out, we also need a tool that can be used if you are already worn out. This is also one of the points that the trade union movement has made, i.e. that we lack a real tool of competence so that we can clarify more clearly the competences of people who are either at the risk of wearing out or who, unfortunately, are already exhibiting symptoms of wear and tear, so that we can move on better before a hard wear occurs. In general, therefore, a new and significantly improved effort is needed for the working environment in Denmark. I think the forecasts on the psychological working environment are a very clear cry for help. We must take action against this, we in the Radical Left want to put all our energies into it, but I also think that recognition is very broad here, and I have certainly seen the Minister's commitment to move this forward quickly as very credible.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331132627	There is one simple request for a brief comment, and that is from Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331132631	These were a number of very positive and very concrete proposals. I also believe that we now lack legislation in the psychological field that they have got in Sweden now that it has really produced results from the start. So we can easily start with that, and I also hope that the Radical Left will take part in the proposal on the psychological working environment that we have now put forward by the SF and the Enhedslisten. Because there really are some opportunities already. I just want to hear what Radicals are going to do to ensure that a committee of experts does not turn into a jar of jam, and why Radicals are not going to be involved even now in launching some of what everyone knows works and which no one has contradicted at all: for example. the six points to which we are referring, or the additional points to which the rapporteur himself refers? Why do we not take it and set it in motion for the sake of the 10,000 people who have to suffer from the bad working environment? I guess it's gonna start as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331132726	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331132727	Nor do I see a coal excavation of the area as an obstacle to setting things in motion if the conciliation circle and a broad majority agree that things can be set in motion. It is Radicale's wish to be given priority, for example the Factory Inspectorate. This requires a specific priority, and we will work hard for this, including in the conciliation circle, so that the things we agree on can be implemented as soon as possible. So, of course, we will work for that. In the Radical Left we are part of the conciliation circle, and that is why we want things to become reality. And that is what they are doing when we can obtain a majority, and that is why we support the proposal for adoption that we have today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331132811	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331132813	This is going to be a tough job for Radicals, because it sounds like all the other parties just want these experts in and then look at what they say before they even want to act. I would mention that when we propose to hire 140 extra members of the Factory Inspectorate, it is the people who have been cut off from the Factory Inspectorate. I know that some people have travelled because of a poor working environment and very unsatisfactory working conditions and enormously poor management. But we could start by saying to each other: okay, we reach out and fix it on the flat hand. Those things or for that matter training or health and safety advice doesn't have to be discussed in a specialist committee. I guess we could start doing that tomorrow if we wanted to.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331132855	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331132857	I think it's good to get the coal digging area, so we get it all out. In fact, I have enormous sympathy for the impatience of the rapporteur, whom I share. On the other hand, I do not quite have the same distrust of the other majority here. In fact, I have a very clear statement from the Minister in the vote that we are now presenting to the conciliation circle, and I think it says in black and white: it cannot continue. That is an indication on which we agree, and I think that is actually a very big step. Radicals have long pressed and put forward proposals on this, and now we are taking the joint step of saying that this effort must be changed. We shall then see how quickly we can get on with some of the concrete proposals which I agree with the rapporteur in that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331132956	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked for brief comments. The next rapporteur in the rapporteur's report is Mr. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331133011	This is a perfect time for a debate on working conditions. However, the background to the debate is unfortunately depressing. After all, the new study by the National Research Centre for Safety and Health at Work has just established that the number of people who suffer physical or psychological injuries through stress is growing strongly and that efforts for a better working environment are not working. In the case of physical overload, it can be seen that it has increased by 15%, and in the case of mental injuries it is 17%. In short, it goes back the way the hens scrape. And that is exactly the opposite of the objective, which is otherwise that there should be an improvement of 20%. by 2020. One in nine gets physical damage, and one in six gets psychological damage. Lizette Risgaard, chairman of the LO, said yesterday: 'These figures are a flare, which I hope all parties can see from their offices at Christiansborg. ▪ We can then show that we have seen this by making some new decisions, so the answer to the LO and all the workers in the country is: Yes, we have seen the flare, and we will not tolerate people being grinded to pieces at the country's workplaces. There is also the prospect of many more years in the labour market. An 18-year-old should expect to work today until he is approx. 74 years. Poor working environment and a late retirement age are trying to mix oil with water. A committee of experts is very good. What is needed, however, is that action is being taken now. Now more money is needed for the Factory Inspectorate, and now we need a very concrete action plan so that we can raise the working environment in the workplace and get some instructions for employers. The public should take the lead, but as a federal secretary from FOA, Jens Nielsen, says: "Everyone who has set foot in a nursing home, a day care institution or a hospital knows why the working environment has deteriorated. It's not rocket science. It is about the fact that there are too few employees to solve too many tasks. Jens Nielsen goes on to say in the interview with Avisen.dk: • Over the last 7 years, employees in regions and municipalities have been reduced by more than 30,000, but there have been no fewer tasks, and this can be measured in the working environment. He goes on to say: "It goes without saying that you cannot cut resources drastically and at the same time improve the working environment. Requirements and resources must be accompanied if we want to improve the working environment. With the last comment here, I think that Jens Nielsen will return a little to his point about rocket science. So let us finally set up that committee of experts, but at the same time let us take some concrete steps. I have also noticed that Mette Agaard Larsen from BUPL says: "We have long been calling for action from the Minister. But a committee of experts doesn't do it alone. Investment also needs to be made right now. ▪ For what it is all about is reducing the heavy burdens on workers at construction sites and in industry. But it is also about the fact that the public itself is a machine that produces damage. One can imagine that an employee on a late, single night shift is in the process of helping a demented citizen change his diaper while an alarm shows that another citizen is leaving the house. So it is extremely difficult to exercise the patience to ensure that the demented continue to take part in what is going on. But it is also fairly certain that if you become a little firm in such a situation, you run the risk of the citizen reacting violently. So the way we have arranged a number of our public jobs helps to produce both physical damage and psychological damage through stress.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331133451	Thank you. It seems that the Conservative rapporteur is not here. Then it's the Minister of Employment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331133509	Thank you for that and thank you for a very good debate that we have now had in Parliament on a very, very important subject. I quite agree with Mr. Christian Juhl in that it is an important theme, and for that matter Mr. Karsten Hønge. What's been going on from Mr. Kim? Christian Juhl and Mr. Karsten Hønge, of course, has been that if we had to set up a committee of experts in which I understand that the two rapporteurs can nevertheless see reason, they think that this is an expression of the fact that no further action can be taken by the conciliation circle. I think that Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen very clearly describes that, of course, the conciliation circle is not argument-resistant. There is of course no one in this conciliation group who is not willing to take immediate initiatives, and so I think it is a little sad that we should make it the subject of the matter as seriously as the one we are discussing today. I must also just say to the consumer about society that Mr. Christian Juhl has not had the opportunity to attend a meeting in my office. I remember, among other things, that we have a dialogue at the moment with the Social Democratic Party and the Enhedslisten on asbestos, which the former minister set in motion and which I have followed up. So this whole question is that, as rapporteur, I, as Mr. Christian Juhl does not get involved, is simply not correct. It is clear that Mr. Christian Juhl is not part of the conciliation circle because Enhedslisten has chosen to stand outside and peace be with it, but I can only mention that I repeatedly reach out to a discussion of this theme in the Folketing. As far as I am concerned, this is too important a matter to do, if I may say so, political controversy, which is why we also need to take this very seriously. There is a need for further action, and one can be quite sure that I will also do so as Minister for Employment. There are, in fact, many of the things that are in the proposal for adoption by the Enhedslisten and the SF, which can make sense and which must also be looked at, but when that is said, it is crucial for me that we are now seriously responding to the figures we have seen, and there is, I think, a committee of experts a very good starting point for that. I would also like to acknowledge that it is not always possible to do so, but when you do, you also have to sign up to the Alternative, to Mr. Torsten Gejl, who has a very good rapporteur's speech, very well-balanced and also very reflected, as among other things. points out that the whole question of whether, when you have 5 employees, you should have a representative in relation to the working environment. It's sir. Torsten Gejl is not sure that necessarily makes sense in relation to the effort • super reflected. And it also shows that, in relation to things that may look very beautiful, one might also have to consider whether they also give the necessary effect. After all, we know today that there are sectors which are hard hit by major challenges, and I have said this from today as Minister for Employment that we need to do something more about this. For agriculture, for example, where we see many fatal accidents, many serious accidents, and construction, we need to do something more about that, and we can look forward to that too. With that, however, I would like to thank you for a good debate, and it is certainly also a debate that requires political attention, and that is why I am also looking forward to continuing to discuss this important issue with the parties of the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331133902	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331133907	I think we've both grown up in the country and probably got our first pair of rubber boots before we've gotten to school, and we've also run out with the pigs before we were 14 years old. But that does not mean that we were born in the sign of the wheelbarrow and must be both lifted and pushed to move forward. And that's what I'm reacting to. I do not want to entertain how long it took to get a meeting on asbestos and how slow things are with epoxy etc. I just want to say that if there was that openness in the conciliation circle, then people would be invited in. I suggested it last time we discussed it two years ago. Let's all discuss these things together and throw the ideas on the table. Then all the inner Circle people can sit and pick them up and say: we will not spend money on that, and we will not spend money on that or whatever they say. But there hasn't been. I haven't even been invited to a conciliation meeting. I just want to say that. If that openness were real, we would, of course, merge these two statements and say: we make a committee of experts, fine. Let's get to it. There are plenty of people who need to get smarter, including myself. But then we take the six concrete steps that Enhedslisten and SF have proposed one can proceed immediately. Wouldn't that be an idea, sir? Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20170331134028	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331134031	Well, in general, it's always a good idea to talk to each other. I'm sorry to inform you, sir. Christian Juhl, that I cannot confirm the message that I have run out among pigs before I was 14 years old. I can't reach an agreement there with Mr. Knox. Christian Juhl. But that is probably not what is important in this debate either. In relation to the debate on asbestos, I have to say that I will be Minister for Employment, I believe, on 28 November and, as I remember that meeting, it will be held in January, less than two months after I have become Minister for Employment. It's not for me to see a lack of desire to discuss this theme. What has happened before I became Minister for Employment cannot and will not relate to, or whether it has been too long before that meeting has been held, but I would rather hold a meeting too much than too little. Then Mr. Christian Juhl: Can I be allowed to learn more about working conditions? I would like to try to make that commitment. - Sir, you can. Christian Juhl. That is why I also think that a technical examination of some of these reports can be made, which have now been sent to the Danish Parliament, where a more nuanced knowledge of them can be gained.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331134147	Thank you. Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331134151	I am trying so a little more simply: can it be possible to avoid it becoming a jar of jelly by taking concrete initiatives where we all agree, for example. The Factory Inspectorate, training in the workplace, health and safety representatives and such things without waiting for a committee of experts? At the same time we combine our proposals, which specifically want action here and now, that is why I am talking about that with the wheelbarrow's signs, and at the same time we acknowledge that you want to have an expert committee to also come up with even more new ideas. I don't have the true knowledge. I just have a number of suggestions that I know that everyone in the industry, employers and trade unions and other specialists is agreed on. I even think that the Minister himself indicated yesterday that it is true that some of these proposals are likely to have to be set aside.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331134242	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331134245	I don't know if you can just say that, for example. all employers agree with the proposal for adoption now presented by the SF and Enhedslisten. I don't think that's necessarily true, otherwise I'll be glad to hear about it. But let it be, the time is too short for political controversy. I think we need to discuss this openly with each other. We had a very good consultation yesterday, and I have also said today that the many reports that have now been published also deserve, I think, a more in-depth review. I would therefore very much like to invite the Employment Committee to a technical review of the knowledge we currently have. In fact, I believe that Mrs Laura Lindahl, as rapporteur, also said that this could be an idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331134322	Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331134325	I would like to ask the Minister if the figures that came out yesterday were a surprise to the government. That's one. The second is: Does the Minister recognise that there is a link between cuts in the Factory Inspectorate and the possibility of enforcing a good, healthy and safe working environment in the country's workplaces?
ParlaMint-DK_20170331134341	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331134344	I fully acknowledge that it is essential that the necessary resources are available within the Labour Inspectorate. It is about the economy, but also about whether the job we are talking about is working properly. It's not a secret, is it, sir? Karsten Hønge himself had the pleasure of having shares in the consultation, which was the first I participated in as Minister of Employment, on the Factory Inspectorate's well-being survey. So these are a lot of different things that you should, I think, deal with, and not just a matter of economy. It is also true that, in relation to the figures that have been published, some of them are based on a time when the government to which I belong did not have the power of government. It is a broad series of figures that extends over several years. And I have to say that I was and am genuinely concerned about the developments that we are seeing now, and that is why, of course, political decisions need to be taken. We are in agreement on this, and I believe that a broad majority will agree on it here in the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331134448	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331134453	The last question alone must be: what is the Minister's timetable for the work of the Committee of Experts?
ParlaMint-DK_20170331134457	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331134500	The timetable is that this should not develop into what some rapporteurs have already decided today that the committee of experts should be: a jar of jelly. It shouldn't be. In my world, the committee must have the opportunity to do both good and constructive work, but it is clear that this too must be reported in a fairly quick form. Therefore, my recommendation is that the committee should finish its work by the end of 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331134532	Thank you. Then it's Lennart Damsbo-Andersen, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331134535	Thank you. I have been listening to the questions put to the Minister here, and there is one of them in particular that I should like to comment on. Because I took note of the fact that Mr. Christian Juhl went in and began to challenge the discussion and the meetings we had with the Minister about asbestos that it should not have happened in a proper way. So I would just like to start, for my own part, by signing up to the Minister and saying that I think the Minister very quickly • surprisingly quickly • after having resigned was ready to go in and take a meeting with Mr. Christian Juhl and myself, including the good experts who sit in the BAT cartel, to discuss how to proceed with the asbestos case. So it is actually just on my part to acknowledge that that process can be well done, and perhaps also a message to Mr. Christian Juhl states that it may well be that some ministers act slowly, but in this particular case Mr. Christian Juhl has actually been fully involved in following a good work environment case all the way to the end.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331134637	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331134641	I can only sign for a very good meeting which took place on a very serious issue, and the beauty of parliamentary work is that one can disagree in this Chamber, but nevertheless well hold meetings together and try to find solutions. And a process plan has been agreed in relation to the whole question of asbestos, which we have now jointly set in motion, and I shall in fact sign for that. It is clear that it may be difficult for a minister to stand and praise himself, and that is why I note that Mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen signs for the work that has been done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331134717	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister. Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten, in the second round. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331134731	In relation to the latter, I would like to say that I think it is a good thing that we have got to grips with the asbestos case, but I would remind you that it is almost two years since we had the first meeting at a party comrade to the present minister. It's just to say that the time horizon has been that way. I sometimes look at that little drawing under the selection board and now I won't mention the jam jar, but there's also a snail sneaking off and a spider hanging and sleeping. In other words, it is people's problems that we are working on and that is why we must be as quick as we can possibly be. I welcome a very good meeting and I also believe that what we proposed, that is to say, that it should be the professional organisations that sit with the people of the Ministry and find some plans, is a real solution. It is likely to be much, much faster than if, for example, it is. The conciliation circle was supposed to do it. And that's what I've been trying to refer to. The minister's people in the conciliation circle want a group of experts set up. And I don't know if it's gonna be a jelly jar, but it's no coincidence that the drawing under the selection board is the way it is. A lot has happened over the years, when something has been put on committee, and then time has passed. I sincerely hope this is going to go really, really fast. I hope that this debate has helped to speed up the pace, not least. I had also hoped that the rhetoric of the Minister would have meant that he would have been able to set up a committee of experts and take concrete steps. That is why we from the SF and the Enhedslisten made a concrete proposal instead of saying: Well, it's nice to have a committee of experts. For then we are walking on two feet and we are actually starting some of the things we agree on. And I can hear that there is no longer so much doubt that the Labour Inspectorate must have some more resources and that it costs money. And I have no doubt that the training is not good enough and that the health and safety representatives do not have the influence that they should have on things. Such things could be set in motion at the same time, and it is quite incomprehensible to me that this cannot be done. Because we did not have to wait for that; the minister could have snapped his fingers here and said: yes, we are hiring the 140 people. There's money for this 1.2 billion. kr. there is in the prevention fund. The Minister's predecessor said with great zeal that they should not be touched. But if we do not spend that money on preventive work now, with these figures you can ask: when then? I would like to thank you for the debate, but in particular I would like to thank you for the recognition of the situation, which came in general yesterday morning from the Minister, and the clear message that this is unsatisfactory. It is always a good starting point to have recognised the situation. And then I am a little sad that the rapporteur of the Left said that we should not look backwards. I always feel that way if I have to be a little self-critical, when I've done something bad, then I have to look backwards and look at what I really did, and then don't do it next time. That is why it is necessary to be a little self-critical too. It was a few of the rapporteurs who were there and then say: yes, I was the one who did it; I was the one who was wrong, and I am the one who is responsible. It is quite incomprehensible that the Social Democrats have the patience to wait at the slow pace at the moment. But now we've got this process going, and apparently it's the committee of experts that's gonna be central. But I would sincerely hope that this debate will also enable us, for example, to do so. over the next few weeks and months, at least before the summer break, just two or three specific initiatives have been taken to improve it for thousands of people. I would like to finish by mentioning what I said at the beginning, namely that every day of the year, including on weekends, there are 5 people who die from bad working conditions, there are at least 54 people who suffer from a work-related illness, and there are 115 people who are affected by an accident at work every day. The clock is ticking and time is ticking, and we are approaching at enormous speed 2020. And if you do not want a scandal debate again in a year or two, I think we should jointly try to act together while discussing it with some specialists in the committee of experts. But thank you for the realization that has come out of this first initiative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331135226	Thank you. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. As mentioned above, the vote on the proposals for adoption will take place only on Tuesday 4 April 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331135249	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 4 April 2017. It is first the rapporteur for the questioners, sir. Claus Kvist Hansen, Dansk Folkeparti, for a reason. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331135315	It is hardly surprising that the Danish People's Party looks with scepticism at every time the EU holds out new visions for Europe, new visions which, however enticing they are, usually mean more EU and smaller nation states in full accordance with the EU's inherent ambition for closer cooperation. In reality, it is more about linking the European countries to a thicker and thicker layer of glue with a direction set out in Brussels and with the European people as the wooden asses of the project • something like that, as far as we can see, the Commission's latest ambition for a European pillar of social rights appears. The reason for the question today is therefore to clarify where the Danish Government stands in this matter and perhaps not least to get to the light where the other parties of the Folketing stand. Ambitions on the social pillar seem to cover a total of 20 policy areas in three main areas: access to the labour market, including skills development and other employment promotion measures; working conditions, including rights and obligations in the labour market; and social protection and access to social rights. Isolatedly, these are all political themes that we know about at home, where there is overall control of the economy and where the Danish model has been governing wage formation and the rules of the game in the labour market for decades. In many parts of the rest of Europe, national differences have been widely viewed and joined together in economic and monetary union with the euro as a single currency. What exactly went wrong, I should not be wiser at least not today, but for a number of southern European countries, the euro cooperation has, to put it mildly, had no saving effect. No matter who you choose to blame, it remains to be seen that a number of European countries have suffered from considerable deficits in government finances and high unemployment. Not surprisingly, the ailing countries have not been impressively successful in developing their own social security systems either. And now perhaps we are reaching the heart of the matter, because from the point of view of the Danish People's Party, the ambitions of the social pillar are similar to the fact that the European Union is discovering that Brussels and the euro have not produced the expected results; on the contrary, some will argue. But rather than looking inwards and considering whether we have gone the right way in European cooperation, we are looking to see who will be able to pay the bill instead of being open-minded and visionary. The Danish People's Party is concerned that the development of a social pillar will lead to an increased influx of EU citizens to Denmark, where there is much greater opportunity to find work and where the social safety net is already finely masked. It cannot be blamed to the citizens of the European Union that they want to go to Denmark for creating a safer life, but it is not a viable path that we have to assume even more responsibility for making jobs, education and social security available to the whole of Europe than is already the case. I am aware that the social pillar is initially intended for the countries of the euro zone, but the Commission has graciously opened a door to countries outside the euro area to join the social pillar. I am therefore looking forward to today's debate so that we can shed some light on how ambitious or reckless, if you like, the parliamentary parties are in relation to even closer European cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331135623	Thank you. Then it is the Minister of Employment for an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331135636	Thank you for that, and especially thank you for the initiative for this debate on the social dimension of the European Union which the Danish People's Party has taken. In fact, in every way I think this is both an important discussion, but not least a very topical political position on a subject that will certainly fill a lot in the coming months in EU cooperation. The Danish People's Party has asked me to inform you about the Government's ambition to avoid the EU developing a social dimension in the light of the EU's objective to do just that by developing a pillar of social rights. I can start by making it quite clear that the government does not want the European Union to move towards a social union. The Danish Government supports that you can move after job, but you should not move after where there are the best and most generous welfare benefits. This is absolutely crucial to the government's agenda. This is a very topical and also extremely important issue for me and the government as well, which is why it is clear from the government base. Thus, in the current discussions on where the EU should move, it is a general message from Denmark that the existing division of competences between the EU and the countries must be fully respected. There should be no further transfer of competence in the social field to the European Union. However, a social dimension of EU cooperation is not as such news. We already have cooperation in a number of so-called social areas. This applies, among other things, to: focus on job creation and the exchange of best practice, minimum standards in the area of employee protection and health and safety, and coordination of social security, etc. What is new, however, is that, since the Brexit vote last summer, there has been a lot of debate about where the European Union should move. The debate is taking place among other things. on whether there is a need for enhanced cooperation and more rules in the social field. Some believe that the European Union has not been good enough to provide answers to a number of the challenges and consequences that individual citizens have experienced in the wake of the economic crisis, which we saw, fortunately, in Denmark, are putting behind us. Only last weekend, the Heads of State or Government met in Rome and talked about the pointers for where EU cooperation should go. In the Declaration of Rome, the Heads of Government stated that the countries want a socially responsible Europe where there is sustainable growth and economic and social progress, among others. the development of the internal market. It is also emphasised that EU cooperation must take into account the different national welfare systems and the crucial role played by the social partners. It is precisely the respect for the different national models and for the social partners that Denmark and other countries have worked actively for the declaration. Finally, the Declaration of Rome also reiterates that the European Union must be what is called big on big issues and small on small ones. One must be big on the big and important themes and less on what does not take up so much if one is to translate it into Danish, i.e. what, in the government's view, is essentially also at the heart of EU cooperation. Finally, there must also be respect for the existing division of competences. This is completely in line with the position of the Danish Government. The government does not believe that the answer is more common rules or more competence for the European Union in the field of employment and social affairs, and I will come back to that. It is also part of the ongoing debate that the European Commission has launched an initiative to establish a European pillar of social rights, a pillar that is primarily addressed to the euro countries, as the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party also mentions. The other EU countries can then choose to join. I would like to stress here today that there is not yet a genuine political initiative. So far, we have been presented with a preliminary outline of how such a pillar can be designed. I have previously explained the content of the preliminary sketch in a consultation on 9 December 2016. The Commission sets out 20 principles for a well-functioning and fair labour market. Some principles are based on existing EU legislation, others are inspired by practice at national level and by other international networks. The Commission is going to go a long way when it wants to ensure, for example. education and lifelong learning, a balance between working life and private life and fair wages and pension schemes, just to mention a few examples. After all, the government has already informed the Danish Parliament about the Danish consultation response to the Commission. The answer was obtained and was drawn up following the thorough involvement of the social partners and other organisations. Let me repeat here, as I also said in the reply, that the government does not want the European Union to move towards a social union. The Danish Government supports the possibility of moving after a job, but it is precisely not moving according to where welfare benefits can be most and best. The government is not opposed to the EU working on so-called benchmarking, that is to say, keeping the countries up for action and momentum, and not least that we can learn from each other. What are some countries doing well? It makes good sense, and we are already doing so. It is also an experience that can be taken with oneself when other countries have been inspired by what we have done in Denmark, not least in relation to our labour market policy. However, we are clearly opposed to giving the European Union new competences in the social field, just as we do not support the proposal for a common regulation, for example. minimum wage and industrial relations. The Member States and the social partners are best placed to do this themselves. It is absolutely essential that the areas of national competence are respected. The government does not see the need to add new competences to the EU or to implement further treaty changes. It is absolutely fundamental that the principle of subsidiarity is respected. That is why we in Denmark insist that national labour market models and social models should be included in a so-called pillar if we move on with that work. In the Danish context, this is particularly true of respect for the role and distinct autonomy of the social partners. The government is working to ensure that a pillar can consist of a maximum of a number of general principles, and there must be no new common minimum standards or rights. After all, we must not forget that there is a great difference between the organisation of our labour market and social models in the European Union. There is no final solution to this. If we do not have that in mind, we risk 1) that a Danish working labour market and our welfare model will be unbalanced and under pressure, for example. through new inflexible EU standards, 2) that a pillar will deprive countries of responsibility for ensuring balance in their own public finances and continuing to implement and implement the necessary reforms, including in the labour market, and 3) that the Commission contributes to further scepticism in relation to EU cooperation when selecting areas where the EU cannot resolve the problems effectively. It is the same that drives the government when we are currently working hard to revise Regulation 883, which we had the pleasure of discussing here in Parliament on Tuesday. EU rules must be adapted to current circumstances, seen as fair and fair and provide the necessary space for national systems and priorities. For the government, what we are discussing today is absolutely an important matter, and the government is committed to making Denmark's influence felt as early as possible and at all levels. I myself have taken up this matter on several occasions, both to colleagues and to Members of the Commission. The same applies to the Prime Minister, the Finance Minister and other members of the government. There is therefore no doubt about the Danish position, and our position will be unchanged from the point of view of the forthcoming concrete proposal for a social pillar, which the Commission is expected to present here during the spring and most likely, as I have been told, at the end of April. In line with that, in November, I also contributed to the adoption of a joint Nordic declaration to the European Commission, together with my Nordic colleagues. We have stressed in the declaration that the Nordic governments do not want a pillar to transfer new powers to the European Union. The Nordic governments understand the importance of social balance and growth, but want respect for our different national labour market models and social models. I have to say that I think we have met with sensitivity, but it is also my clear view that there is a need for enormous political attention on this matter. This is an attitude that I understand the social partners in Denmark also share when I have dialogue with them. With these words, I hope that not least the Danish People's Party has been reassured, so at least it has gained a greater degree of knowledge of what the government's position is, and also a deepening of what I have previously expressed in the European Parliament's Committee on European Affairs. The government wants a Europe of growth and employment, but we do not want the European Union to develop into a social union. We do not want the European Union to take responsibility for the Member States. On the contrary, there must be respect for the way in which each country organises its national systems and therefore also for the Danish labour market model.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331140616	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Claus Kvist Hansen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331140627	Thank you. And thank you to the Minister for his speech on the social dimension of the European Union. I would like to start with a small page note. The Minister hopes that the Danish People's Party is now safe or has gained some form of security for the position of the Minister and the government. I must say that security will never become a word that the Danish People's Party connects with the European Union. I'm sorry. But apart from that, we are of course aware by the Danish People's Party that the Minister makes it clear that the government does not want the European Union to move towards a social union. Subsequently, the Minister emphasizes that the government supports that you can move after a job but not move after welfare benefits. However, the problem has been seen with the view of the Danish People's Party that these two conditions are quite closely connected in Denmark. There are jobs to find in Denmark, yet then, and at the time of writing work approx. 120,000 Eastern Europeans in Denmark. I suppose that they are driven by the desire to work, but it can hardly be denied that access to Danish welfare benefits, education, SU, schooling and a well-functioning health service does not seem to be a direct deterrent to an Eastern European family. As the rules on the free movement of workers already work today, the overall welfare package, if we are to call it what the EU obliges Denmark to offer all EU citizens, has acted as a magnet for citizens from all over the EU, and the Danish People's Party can see nothing but that further strengthening of the rights of migrant citizens will accelerate immigration. No one can blame the aforementioned Eastern European family for packing the South Fruits and moving to Denmark when the conditions in the country of origin are miserable, but as I also mentioned in my opening speech, Denmark cannot, in my opinion, assume the enormous responsibility, what is really happening, to provide social security for the whole of Europe, let alone in a situation where southern Europe is collapsing economically and where, ten years after the financial crisis, we are still seeing worryingly high youth unemployment figures throughout the European Union. For the Danish People's Party it is important to safeguard Danish jobs. We do not believe that it is the task of Western Europe to export welfare services. Instead, it is the responsibility of South and Eastern Europe to pursue an economically responsible policy so that they can support their own citizens. Having said that, I am, of course, pleased that the Minister assures us that the existing division of competences between the European Union and the countries must be respected and that no further competences in the social field should be transferred to the European Union. No, there should not be, because Denmark has already committed itself very far, too far indeed. In his speech, the Minister also mentioned that since the British Brexit vote last year there has been a debate on where the EU should move. The conclusion of that debate is now in the form of a desire to strengthen the European Union's social dimension, and I have to say that I am somewhat surprised. Has it not even been understood in Brussels that Brexit is the culmination of England's dissatisfaction with, among other things, the United Kingdom? the free movement of labour and, in any case, the tight ties and obligations of EU membership? Has it not even been discovered in Brussels that large parts of Europe feel trampled under the EU's ambition for ever closer cooperation? Apparently not. As far as I am concerned, in January I had the pleasure of attending the Commission's conference on the social pillar, and I must confess that it was almost a sectarian experience. The uplifted atmosphere throughout the day was certainly not disturbed by reflections on neither Brexit nor the gradually apparent EU skepticism around Europe. The focus was solely on the bliss of the entire EU project that the strengthening of social rights will bring. It simply cannot be but a good idea, was the underlying tone. And all distracting objections were politely left at home not to break the idyllic. I imagine that most of the EU's visions are probably hatched in the same way, but that should not prevent Denmark from keeping its head cold. Fortunately, unlike a majority in the Danish Parliament, the Danish people kept their heads completely cold when, for example, a referendum was held on Danish accession to the euro and on the abolition of the legal reservation. But that's a completely different talk. I would just like to say that I am delighted that the government is keeping a cool head now that it is about the European Union's social pillar. The Danish People's Party hopes that this cold will persist and will not be influenced by sectarian moods, global warming or Commissioners in the EU. In his speech, the Minister spent a great deal of time emphasising that the areas under national competence must be respected and that the government does not see the need to add new competences to the EU or to implement Treaty changes. Of course, the Danish People's Party fully agrees with this, just as the Danish People's Party can only support that it is absolutely essential that the principle of subsidiarity be respected. The Danish People's Party does not expect the EU, following today's debate, to scrap its pillar project, and we note that the Minister will continue to insist that the national labour market model and the social model should be included in the pillar. However, in DF we will be working to ensure that there is no social pillar in the European Union at all, because in DF we do not want the European Union to develop into a social union. The Danish People's Party takes note of the Minister's three concerns, which we fully share, and no, nor will the DF accept that our well-functioning labour market and our welfare model come under pressure because of the EU's ambitions. We also see the risk that the social pillar will deprive countries of responsibility for their own economies and societies at all. Finally, it is commendable that the Minister is also aware of the fact that this is the way I hear that the Commission is on an errand which can reinforce an already galloping EU skepticism. With these words, on behalf of the Danish People's Party, the Social Democratic Party, the Left, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party, I would like to make the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament requires the government to continue to work to ensure that the EU does not move towards a social union and that the EU does not develop rules that can undermine the Danish welfare and labour market model. This is clear from the government base, and this will be the government's basic approach to the proposal for a social pillar which the Commission is expected to make in April. In addition, the government will work actively to ensure, in full compliance with its consultation response to the public consultation carried out by the Commission: Parliament notes that the government will also involve the Folketing in further work as in other EU cases when a proposal is available. • V 66).
ParlaMint-DK_20170331141304	Thank you. That proposal is part of the further debate. There's a comment from Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331141314	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. We agree, of course, that we should not give in more self-determination in the areas mentioned by the rapporteur. I think there is a broad consensus on that in the Danish Parliament there are probably also a few parties who think otherwise, but they certainly do not belong to Enhedslisten. I will explain this in my rapporteur's speech. I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on having brought the Social Democratic Party on board a statement stating that the European Union must not develop into a social union. This is a historic change in the attitude of the Social Democratic Party towards it, I have to say. However, I have a more philosophical question for the rapporteur. I do not believe that the European Union can be developed into a social union, which I simply do not believe in. But if you believe it, many people do, why is it so horrible? When you look at the 22 million unemployed in the European Union, there are approx. 120 million people living below the poverty line and a whole lot of other boring figures about how bad things are in social terms, why would it be so terrible if such dreams could come true?
ParlaMint-DK_20170331141422	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331141424	Well, if I understand the rapporteur correctly, the answer to the rapporteur's question will be that if the European Union can develop something that benefits the countries, it is of course gratifying, but it is the countries themselves that have to develop their own systems and make themselves comfortable in the way they now believe is in line with what is now being done in that country. And there it is that we in the Danish People's Party find it difficult to see that you can pool the countries together and find these common guidelines and rules that make things up for a higher unity, because then you do not respect the characteristics of the nation states. I believe that there are different ways of finding the same good results, and that is the way we should approach it with my eyes. I do not know whether that was an answer to the philosophical question, and I do not think the answer was so philosophical either, but that is quite the way I see it, at least.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331141521	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331141522	We fully agree that this is one of the reasons why this is a silly idea, to put it kindly, the Commission has been given. That is exactly what the countries themselves must find out among their own citizens and with the political majority that is now in each country. That is absolutely right. I'm just trying to make the claim that the Commission has. Because if you took it at face value, it would mean that the workers in all the poor countries would have more rights than they do today, and that would then make it impossible for so many people to come up here, and that is obviously the great fear of the Danish People's Party. So why would it really be so terrible if the European Union were to become a social union? I agree that it is at best a naive dream, it is a wrong way to go in relation to democracy and self-determination, but it is a little shattered in my ears that one is so pleased that one can prevent the European Union from becoming a social union. I think you're gonna talk past a lot of people with that rhetoric.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331141618	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331141619	Then I'll try to control my rhetoric. I think it's been pretty subdued. The development of Romanian and Bulgarian rights, both in terms of labour and social conditions, does not necessarily mean that there will be more jobs in Romania and Bulgaria. But if the people in question thereby gain more rights in Denmark, for example, I would move to Denmark if I were them. But it is still not the answer to the problems of the countries concerned. The solution to their problems is not that the people simply move to where there are jobs and social security. No, the solution is for countries to be brought to and helped to develop themselves and to create their own systems that are well-functioning.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331141705	Thank you. Then there are no more questions for Mr. Claus Kvist Hansen, and then it's Mr. Kvist Hansen. Mattias Tesfaye of the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331141725	Thank you. Europe was hit hard by the economic crisis in 2008. I myself experienced how, as a small bricklayer's jack, we could choose and choose between the companies when we finished a residential building in Ishøj at the end of 2007, while it was suddenly difficult to find employment when one year later we had completed the renovation of a nursing home in Charlottenlund. It came very suddenly. In a single year, wages had fallen dramatically, and suddenly no companies called and offered us work. Now we should make our own calls and find the next chord. This was new, but it was not unusual because millions of Europeans were in the same situation. A few weeks ago Conservative EU Commissioner Marianne Thyssen visited the Danish Parliament to present the Commission's ideas in the wake of the economic crisis, including which countries had done well, which politicians had worked best and what the next step is. I attended a meeting with her and was a little surprised when she initially sounded almost like a socialist. She said: there can be no economic progress without social progress and there can be no social progress without economic progress. I think that is very accurate. She then briefly reviewed some of the Commission's preliminary reflections on a social pillar of rights in EU cooperation, among others. on job security, good health care, decent wages and many other things that can sound good. I understand very well that there is a desire at European level to strengthen social rights in European countries. Those governments which have pursued a very tough and liberal policy following the economic crisis can learn a lot from those countries which have maintained a more social model in which there is a relatively large redistribution between generations, parts of the country and groups of people with different social backgrounds. The Member States of the European Union will hopefully be better able to inspire each other, and there may be common sense in developing tools that enable countries to match up to each other. At the same time, however, it is crucial for our party that European cooperation does not start to legislate in a way that interferes with the Danish welfare model and the collective agreements agreed on on the Danish labour market. The social pillar was originally an initiative for the euro countries, and there may be good reasons why the countries of the euro zone should come closer together to ensure more social and economic stability behind their currency. We will not stand in the way of that. However, for the Social Democratic Party, it is essential, as I said, that the Danish Government respects Denmark's special position in this area. Therefore, it was also crucial for us that Marianne Thyssen made it very clear and very explicit that it is not the Commission's aim to build a supranational social union. We will hold the Commission to that and we are pleased that there is a broad majority in favour of this view in the Folketing. We look forward to the debate and support the proposal for adoption which was read out just now.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331142007	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331142012	Thank you. I am really delighted that the Social Democrats are so clear here. I think that is a good thing. I would like the Social Democrats to be a little clearer in the European Parliament, and that is why I would really like to ask Mr Beazley. Mattias Tesfaye, what the social democratic plans here in Denmark, and possibly in cooperation with the partners in the other Nordic countries, are to convince the Socialist Group in the European Parliament to take a different position from what has been taken so far, which is very positive about the development of a social union and which is very positive about the establishment of such a pillar of social rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331142056	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331142059	We have not been adversely disposed, either in the Folketing or in the European Parliament, to see the Commission embarking on this work, and we are looking forward, in a way, to delivering the final result of their work. I am well aware that we Danish Social Democrats do not agree 100% with the Social Democrats in all other European countries, but I very much agree with my own party colleague Ole Christensen, who said a very short time ago that he also thinks, as I have just said, that it is quite reassuring that the European Commission has understood that respect for the various labour market models should be paramount and that a supranational social union should not be developed. So I do not think there is any contradiction between what the Danish Social Democrats say in Brussels and what they say in Copenhagen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331142140	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331142142	No, you can always discuss that. There may be some slight nuance differences, but peace be with it. What I was really interested in, sir. Mattias Tesfaye expressed himself on how the Nordic Social Democrats get their fellows convinced that this is a bad idea in southern Europe and Eastern Europe. I would like to know that, because it is at the heart of whether it actually succeeds in achieving the objective agreed by a relatively broad circle here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331142216	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331142218	Thank you for the question. It is also relevant because the Socialist Group in Brussels is one of the largest and is also part of the discussions with the Commission on what this is going to be. It is no secret that the financial crisis has hit particularly the countries of southern Europe harder and longer than the countries of northern Europe, and that is why they may also have more interests in bringing together a little closer and committing each other to developing a social model in Europe than we do in northern Europe. Both here in Christiansborg and in the European Parliament, the Danish Social Democrats act as social democrats, but also as Danes, and as Danes, I do not think we have any interest in developing a common European welfare model or a common European labour market model. But it is no secret that this is something that is being discussed internally among the European Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331142307	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331142309	Thank you. Yes, I can now hear that the Social Democrats have signed that the European Union must not develop into a social union. If you look back at the discussions on the Maastricht Treaty and other matters, I think that some will wonder a little about that announcement, but we will have to clarify what it means. What I would like to examine in concrete terms is: does what the rapporteur is now saying, and which has been signed, mean that the Social Democrats no longer support the European trade union movement's proposals for a social protocol to be annexed to the Treaty? It has nothing to do with a social union; it is about ensuring that professional and social rights are overarching the rules of free movement. That is the purpose of that protocol. But I just want to know whether this means that it is no longer supported at the risk of the European Union becoming a social union.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331142356	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331142357	I am very pleased that Enhedslisten's rapporteur explains the difference in the way in which the social union is being addressed today, and then the way in which it was addressed, perhaps particularly by the French and Danish governments in the 1990s, because there is a great difference. It is no secret that I believe that the way in which the Court of Justice has judged, among other things. in the Växholm case in Sweden, has been bad. This reflects the fact that European legislation for one-sidedly places emphasis on the rights of free market forces and too little emphasis on the ability of employees and nation states to enforce their own legislation and to maintain their own collective agreements. There is obviously something that needs to be changed here, and I think that some of what has been put forward by the European trade union movement and which is supported by the Danish trade union movement is one of the most sensible things that has been put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331142457	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331142459	I'm really glad to hear that. I would just like to ask: when does the Social Democratic Party come together to raise this issue here in the Parliamentary Chamber? After all, the Danish social democracy and the Danish LO have adopted a joint opinion with the social democracies and the LOs of the other Nordic countries. And here recently it was actually voted in as an amendment in Parliament's opinion on the things we are talking about now, so that a majority in the European Parliament actually supports the European trade union movement's proposal for a social protocol. And then it is just that I ask: when can we have the great joy that the Social Democracy raises the issue here in the Assembly, so that we can fight to pressure a Danish government to raise that issue in the European Union?
ParlaMint-DK_20170331142548	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331142549	It is true, as Enhedslisten's rapporteur says, that there have been developments in the matter and more developments in the last six months than there have perhaps been in the last five years. I think that is only positive. As far as I know, we have no plans to raise the matter here in the Danish Parliament, but if Enhedslisten would like to have a discussion of it, you are of course more than welcome to raise the matter here in the Danish Parliament. Of course, we stand by everything we have agreed and what we have signed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331142617	Thank you, sir. Mattias Tesfaye. No one else was challenged, so we're taking the next rapporteur, and that's sir. Klaus Markussen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331142637	First of all, I would also like to thank the Danish People's Party for raising this question debate. Because this is an extremely important debate and it is also topical; one can actually say that it is so topical that at this point we have not actually seen the final proposal for a European pillar of social rights. I also understand that at the conference to conclude the consultation phase, it became clear that the Commission has received a great many answers, which in itself is an expression of the attention of the area. That is why the presentation of the final proposal has been moved a little, as I understand it. Then, of course, it is a rather special situation to stand here and discuss something that we really do not know the final outcome of, but it is not necessarily a disadvantage, although the discussion here becomes a little bit more fundamental and general. Last weekend most people celebrated at least many European birthdays, thus marking the 60th anniversary of European cooperation. I think we have a lot to be proud of in Europe. We have ensured peace between European nations. We have developed the welfare society. We have freed ourselves from communism. We have created cultural diversity. And above all, we have created freedom of movement. This is something that we in the Left regard as a gift for Denmark and for the Danes. It has not been long since I read that a report stated that the EU's internal market gives a normal LO couple a direct economic benefit to the internal market in the form of an additional annual income of more than DKr 60 000. And Danish Industry estimates that half a million Danish jobs depend on the internal market. Think, too, of the Danish service sector: what would it do without the many guests crossing our borders? What about agriculture, which draws heavily on foreign labour because there are no Danish hands to find? And just think of the many Danish citizens who go out to work or to study in the other Member States; they all become skilled, and they come home and become a resource for our society. Having said that, of course, we should not be blind to the fact that there are also challenges involved in cooperation • challenges that we must take an active part in. And here the debate on the so-called social pillar is relevant. For the Left, it is quite clear that on the issue of welfare services in Europe, the European Union should not move towards a social union. As I mentioned earlier, it is a gift from Denmark and the Danes that we can apply where jobs are available and so it must continue to be. It should not be the case that the European Union is characterised by citizens seeking where there are favourable welfare benefits to receive. So the position of the Left is clear and clear: Welfare services must as far as possible remain in Denmark and go to those who work and live in Denmark and contribute to Danish society for a longer period of time. In this respect, there has just been a question debate in this Chamber where indexing of the children's cheque was discussed. I note that the Minister has expressed clear criticism of the existing provisions of the current regulation. We have a single European Union, but that does not mean that there are no differences and must be differences between national labour markets. That is why we must also ensure that the Danish labour market model and the role and autonomy of the parties are maintained. I think this is an important pillar of the Danish labour market. In addition, we in the Left are pleased that the government has worked to avoid that the pillar does not prevent Denmark from implementing and implementing necessary employment reforms in the future. Because we will not be in a situation where we cannot secure our future labour market through reforms. We in the Left see this as a perfectly natural part of employment policy. So we are dealing with strong Danish interests and priorities in relation to the forthcoming Commission proposal. The Danish position has been made clear to relevant Members of the European Parliament and selected countries, just as I know that the Minister has also made our position directly known to Commissioners Thyssen and Margrethe Vestager. I hope that will play a positive role in what we will see as the final presentation. Here too, I think it is important to mention the Danish Government's efforts in cooperation with our Nordic neighbours. I think it is satisfactory that a joint declaration has been drawn up by the Nordic Ministers for Employment at the Danish request, which makes our position very clear. I believe that we are stronger with such a common voice. The fundamental idea of the Left is that we must have a strong European Union in those areas that matter and in which we cannot solve the problems ourselves. That is why the European Union must be strong when it comes to security, immigration and the economy. But then we must have a European Union that makes itself smaller and takes a step backwards and does not restrict the countries where the European Union means less and has to mean less and where we must respect the diversity of the countries. This is true of the countries' labour market models. I therefore note with satisfaction that the government and the Minister are actively working to safeguard Danish interests and to prevent the EU from developing into a social union. The Left, of course, takes part in this work. The European Union must continue to develop as a vibrant and strong cooperation that provides peace, growth and security in Europe. • Also, when the next generations are celebrating the 100th anniversary of European cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331143320	Thank you. A brief comment from Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331143325	Thank you. I have to say to Mr. Knox. Klaus Markussen, that the Left and the Danish People's Party agree on some things, but we certainly do not agree that freedom of movement is a gift to the Danes. After all, we see a daily storage in relation to social benefits. This week's news with regard to migrant workers, East Europeans, southern Europeans and other good people is that you have to cut the number of places in English-language education at the vocational academies, given that these people come to Denmark, take an education and go home again. And then we've been allowed to pay the bill and the SU, but we get absolutely nothing out of these people. I have to ask the rapporteur in relation to the direction here. In other words, we agree on the future direction, but is the rapporteur also prepared to seek to reverse some of the existing arrangements which are moving towards social union? I am thinking here, among other things. on child and youth benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331143432	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331143433	What is important to me in this context is that I should like to thank you for your comments and your commitment to the common direction, and I appreciate that I do not think that this debate should be about rolling things back. I think this debate should be about how we ensure that we have a common, strongly anchored position here in the Folketing, which clearly shows to the government that we are not interested in the EU building a social pillar. If it is the case that we have to discuss the roll-back of any other areas, I think it requires a proper question debate on it. However, I would like to welcome the fact that we agree on the direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331143531	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331143532	Well, when I ask specifically about the child and youth benefits, it is because we do not have to go back any further than the last parliamentary term until there was agreement between the Left and the Danish People's Party that child and young people's benefits should be paid to children living in Denmark, just as there was legislation and still legislation. However, because of the EU rules, we are currently paying children's and young people's benefits to children who have never set foot on Danish soil. I have to ask the rapporteur of the Left: does the rapporteur of the Left feel that it is actually wrong, that is, that the law in Denmark should actually be kept, or does the rapporteur feel that this indexation proposal, which is also part of this debate, is really sufficient? In other words, what weight does the rapporteur really place in his lot if we are to get the rapporteur on the right track?
ParlaMint-DK_20170331143630	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331143631	Thank you. Well, I think, as I said before, that if we are going to have a real discussion on this subject, then I think we should have a question debate on it. With regard to this question debate, I think it is important to stress the importance of national self-determination in relation to the labour market and the way in which our labour markets are organised for the reasons I highlighted in my rapporteur's speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331143703	Thank you, sir. Klaus Markussen. There are no more brief comments, and the next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Finn Sørensen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331143718	Thank you. Thank you to the Danish People's Party for calling this inquiry debate. It is, of course, a very important discussion, as the progress already shows. There's just a little bit of confusion. Because the Commission's proposal for a social pillar is not an attempt to transform the European Union into a social union, even if you can get that impression when you read the Commission's communication. But the Commission's stated aim in this social pillar is to strengthen economic freedoms, that is to say the free movement of capital, goods, labour and services. But it is precisely the rules and freedoms that have led to the whole problem of social dumping, because those rules prevent us from carrying out an effective fight against social dumping. That is one point in relation to it, and there is absolutely nothing in the Commission's proposal to counteract that problem or to provide trade unions and Member States with the tools to combat social dumping effectively. It is also quite clear that another general objective is to strengthen EMU, i.e. economic and monetary union, in depth, as the Commission writes. But that is precisely the policy that has led to a hard-handed and antisocial reduction policy in virtually all EU countries, not least in southern European countries such as Greece, Spain and Portugal, with the dismissal of hundreds of thousands of public employees and the reduction of social benefits, etc., and in the Commission's proposal there is no small signal that this policy must be changed, on the contrary. That is why it is misleading to present the Commission's proposal as if it were a step towards social union. Even if you only took all the pink remarks that are in it and adopted it, it would in no way solve the challenges that the Commission itself points to there, one of the great ones of which is that there are about. 22 million registered unemployed in the EU. Approx. 120 million people live below the EU poverty threshold. 45 million cannot afford to warm up their house or get food on the table, and approx. 25 million children are threatened by poverty or social exclusion. The last figures, starting with the 120 million, are 3-4 years old, but that has hardly changed significantly, and lately figures have come out that millions of people live like what is called working poor, that is to say that they have a job, but that they cannot live on the salary they receive. So there is certainly not much to celebrate here at the EU's 60th birthday. The European Union has simply failed to deliver the goods that millions of EU citizens demand, namely good jobs, social security and welfare, and neither can it, for the simple reason that the Treaties give priority to other interests, namely precisely the rules on freedom of movement and tough reduction policies that create the problems. So we don't need any more of that. I note that both the government and the previous rapporteurs agree to reject the Commission's attempt to deprive us of self-determination in terms of vital labour market conditions and rules on welfare services. That is a good thing, but at the same time it is being opened up that some of the Commission's proposals can be supported, and I would warn against that. The Commission's proposal must not be rejected in its entirety. Instead, the Danish Government must put forward a concrete proposal which will actually strengthen employees, trade unions and Member States in the fight to ensure a level playing field in their labour market and to eliminate social dumping. It is the 2008 proposal of the European Trade Union Union Confederation for a social protocol to be annexed to the Treaty. If it is implemented, it will be established once and for all that professional and social rights are the general rules on free movement. It is the least that a Danish government and the parties that are so warm supporters of the European Union can do if they want to live up to the promises they have made to the Danish people that membership must not affect our model of agreement and our welfare system. To Mr. Mattias Tesfaye, I would like to say that we would like to put forward once again the proposal for a social protocol in this Chamber. We have done so several times, and until now it has been rejected by the Social Democrats, but it is of course worth giving it a test of whether there is a shift in shape, which I would only like to welcome very, very much. Finally, I would like to read out a proposal for adoption on behalf of the Enhedslisten, which reads as follows: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the European Commission's proposal for a social pillar is a totally unacceptable attempt to deprive people of self-determination over vital areas such as the contractual system, employment conditions, wages, working hours, social security and welfare benefits, including pension conditions. Parliament notes that the Commission's stated objective of the social pillar is to strengthen economic freedoms (free movement of capital, goods, labour and services) and EMU, rules leading to social dumping and anti-social reduction policies. It is therefore misleading to describe the Commission's proposal as a step towards social union. The Folketing therefore instructs the government to stand firm on a clear rejection of the Commission's proposal in its entirety and instead to demand a social protocol to the Treaty as proposed by the European Trade Union Confederation. V 67).
ParlaMint-DK_20170331144310	Thank you, sir. Finn Sørensen. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331144316	It's just that I kind of think there's something, sir. Finn Sørensen's got a problem in his throat at least if it is, sir. Finn Sørensen said to be taken as an expression of the fact that the Danish People's Party was in the cart that Mr. Finn Sørensen got packed. The fact is that the Danish People's Party totally rejects any proposal for a pillar of social rights. The Danish People's Party totally rejects all forms of EU involvement in social and labour market policy, and therefore also has a much more sceptical attitude as to what the EU should be dealing with in this area than Mr. Finn Sørensen and the movement that Mr. Finn Sørensen represents. Because we do not mean, contrary to Mr. Finn Sørensen that we should have such a social protocol where the EU can decide Denmark. We do not want that. The Danish People's Party wants to see 179 of us sitting here and presumably it is only 175, because the four Greenlandic and Faroese members will probably vote blankly and decide how the rules should be on the Danish labour market, period!
ParlaMint-DK_20170331144419	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331144420	We have had that discussion many times, and it is actually weird when I have done it several times. Kenneth Kristensen Berth notes that he has either deliberately or unconsciously misunderstood what the proposal for a social protocol is about. It is precisely the opposite, namely that EU rules should not overrule the professional and social rights we have here in Denmark and in all the other European countries. That is exactly what that protocol is all about. So it is a question of giving the European Union the opportunity to interfere less and to cut off the European Court of Justice from interfering in conflict law, as it has done, and as Mr. Mattias Tesfaye also pointed out. In relation to the EU Court of Justice interfering in who should have access to welfare services in Denmark, I would say that this is something that the Danish Parliament must decide, just as we must decide the framework for the Danish model of agreement. So I would like to ask Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth to read the proposal and then rethink whether it might really be something that would fit very well into some of the rhetoric that the Danish People's Party brings in.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331144530	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331144532	Well, as sir. Finn Sørensen has mentioned, we have had this debate before, and I have to say that yes, Enhedslisten may well wish for such a social protocol, but the probability that the content contained in such a social protocol is completely identical to what Enhedslisten wants is modest, not to say not present. So just opening up the EU to deal with that area, for example, in the form of a social protocol, is, in my view, a problem. What this is all about is Treaty changes. It is, of course, that we have to have a completely different Treaty basis for the European Union, which makes it totally impossible for the European Union to deal with these things.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331144617	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331144618	Yes, and the proposal put forward by the European trade union movement is de facto a proposal for a treaty amendment because this protocol goes in and interprets the paragraphs which give us the problems, namely the paragraphs on freedom of movement. And the social protocol proposed by the European trade union movement says very, very clearly and very clearly that the professional and social rights that they are now defined in the individual Member States are not by the European Union; there is nothing about this, including conflict law, and what we also have in terms of professional and social rights, are the EU's general rules on free movement. So what the Danish People's Party is really doing is putting up with one of the instruments we could use to protect ourselves from some of the problems that the rules on free movement give us. And it is so sad that the Danish People's Party's opposition to social rights is so consistent that a very concrete and obviously very good proposal from the European trade union movement is being opposed. It's not Enhedslisten who invented it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331144728	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331144732	I am aware that the Enhedslisten is opposed to the European Union and wants Denmark to withdraw from the European Union. I find it somewhat more unclear what we should do next. But what I am concerned about in this debate, after hearing the rapporteur's speech, is whether, in the event that Denmark does not leave the European Union, it wants to abolish the rules on free movement.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331144805	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331144806	We don't really do that. We want to change the EU's rules on freedom of movement; these are two different things. That is why we, for example. supports the proposal for a social protocol by the European trade union movement. They want to give an interpretation of the rules which would correct the damage caused by the same rules. That is also why we have fought hard and are still doing so in order to amend the so-called Posting of Workers Directive so as to safeguard the right of conflict in relation to posted companies. This is a proposal which we have also had before us in this Chamber and which the Radicals would not support. And that is how we have various proposals to remedy the damage caused by the current EU rules not only to the Danish labour market, but to the European labour market and to workers' rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331144900	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331144902	But I can easily understand that, after all, it is political disagreements about how you want to move in a direction. Then it is just that I find it very difficult to understand how the Enhedslisten's rapporteur can express himself as extremely sceptical as he does about this communication from the Commission, which is precisely about us working together on a social pillar which does not intend, as the rapporteur has also clarified, to undermine the Danish model or anything like that, but is precisely about promoting social rights across the European Union. How can this be contrary to Enhedslisten's visions?
ParlaMint-DK_20170331144944	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331144946	Like sir. Mattias Tesfaye could well tell the difference between the European trade union movement's proposal for a social protocol and what the Commission is proposing here, I can very much agree with that. If the rapporteur had listened to my rapporteur's speech, I criticised the Commission's proposal on two points. It was that the overall purpose of this is precisely to strengthen the rules on free movement at the expense of social rights. I would add that this is not what the Commission says. For the Commission does not propose anything that strengthens our ability to ensure that foreign workers who come here work on equal terms, in other words on Danish pay and working conditions. There is not so much as the shadow of one of the proposals that helps us in that direction. I criticised it because it will strengthen EMU in depth, but EMU, economic and monetary union and the Treaty provisions attached to it are the main reason, or the main tool, it is better to say that the main reason is that some politicians find it interesting to cut back on poor people in relation to the reduction policy that has hit a large number of southern European countries. It was a clear criticism, and it is a criticism I have of the Commission's proposal, plus the fact that we then agree with other parties fortunately and probably a majority that the Commission's proposal deeply interferes with the right of self-determination in some entirely vital areas relating to labour market and welfare policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331145117	Thank you, sir. Finn Sørensen. No one else was challenged. We move on to the next rapporteur, Mrs Christina Egelund from the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331145128	Thank you, President. I think it is not an exaggeration to say that in European cooperation we are in the middle of a difficult turnaround. Britain has decided to leave the EU, and right-wing populist movements are working to break down cooperation and replace free trade with free protectionism. The positive thing in the midst of all the difficulties is that, in the midst of the break-up, we have an obvious opportunity to reform and set a new direction for EU cooperation, and we must do so. At the same time, it is an opportunity to reaffirm that we must, of course, work closely together in Europe. Criticism of the European Union is moving roughly on two fronts: on the one hand, the EU meddles in too much and over-regulates, on the other hand, the EU is not able to act enough when it comes to solving the major problems. I believe that both criticisms are legitimate, and that is why the development of the European Union must, of course, take account of those weaknesses. In this distinction, the Liberal Alliance believes that European cooperation must be strengthened when it comes to free trade, for the protection of external borders, for environmental protection and for dealing with migratory pressures. Conversely, we do not believe that the European Union should regulate unnecessarily when it comes to labour, taxation and social policy. The diversity of Member States when it comes to how to organise the labour market and the welfare society must be respected, and there are great differences. Thus, a common policy in this area will also mean massive and rather intrusive regulation, and to insist on more uniformity and more common regulation here, I fear, in fact, will undermine support for the free movement of workers, and we want to maintain it clearly in the Liberal Alliance. We must safeguard the right to move from one country to another and take a job, and we must safeguard the Member States' room to set up industrial relations, wages, taxes and so on, as it suits each country. That is why, of course, we support the work of the government to counteract the establishment of the social pillar, and we support it by Mr Seligman. Claus Kvist Hansen read out proposals for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331145344	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331145346	Mrs Christina Egelund may remember that Mrs Christina Egelund and I had an exchange on Eastern European labour a week ago here in Parliament. That is why I would like to ask Mrs Christina Egelund whether Mrs Christina Egelund is aware of the answer to Mr Egelund's question. Joachim B. Olsen's question No. 69, alm. Part One, of the Financial Committee of the 2013-14 session. Because if Mrs Christina Egelund is aware of this, Mrs Christina Egelund will also know that Mr. Bjarne Corydon in answer to that question indicates that there is a total loss of 0.6 billion. kr. in the case of Eastern European nationals, from 2005 to 2011. I would therefore ask Mrs Christina Egelund to state whether Mrs Christina Egelund still maintains the view that Eastern European citizens are making profits in the light of the then Minister of Finance Mr. Bjarne Corydon's answer shows the opposite.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331145456	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331145458	I know neither the question nor the answer that Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth refers to. I also think it would be a little unreasonable to ask me to remember a question put to one of my colleagues from a time when I was not sitting in the Folketing. But on the political question, i.e. whether I maintain that there are calculations which show that the overall socio-economic impact of the fact that we have Eastern European workers in Denmark is positive, I will say: yes, I will maintain that. I'd like to confirm the offer I made to Mr. Simpson. Kenneth Kristensen Berth for, I think it is exactly a week ago, to pass on those calculations to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331145544	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331145545	Mrs Christina Egelund has neglected that for the past week. I am sure that Mrs Christina Egelund has other things to do, but I would nevertheless say that I find it strange that Mrs Christina Egelund indicates that the calculations made by the Ministry of Finance are incorrect. Because it must normally be the case that the considerations put forward by the Ministry of Finance are, after all, an expression of reality. I'd say they are. The figures of the Ministry of Finance show that this is a loss of 0.6 billion. kr., and it is even taking into account that no account has been taken of the fact that some people could have got jobs if these Eastern Europeans had not been in Denmark even under the assumption that the real loss is probably higher than that. I am surprised that Mrs Christina Egelund is simply disavowing the figures of the Ministry of Finance. I think that's fresh even for a North Jutland.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331145640	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331145641	We should like to think that this is both fresh and weird and all sorts of other things, and the rapporteur is, of course, free to do so. I am in no way desavouring the calculations made by the Ministry of Finance, but I do not know the question to which the questioner refers, nor do I know what it is for a period or what has been included in those calculations. I would again like to make the offer that I made a week ago, namely to overshadow the calculations that I have referred to in relation to the fact that it is socio-economically positive for Denmark that we have the free movement of workers. This time I have to keep my promise and send it to the questioner as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331145717	Thank you for that and thank you to Mrs Christina Egelund for her speech. The next one is sir. Rasmus Nordqvist from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331145725	Thank you. What I think it is important to look at is what kind of European Union we really want. What is the direction in which we want the cooperation that we have in Europe to take? For us in the Alternative, it is absolutely crucial that it is not just about the economy, but that we actually also pay very, very high attention to both the environment and the social dimension. That is why we think it is sensible that the work on a social pillar has actually been set in motion. So instead of falling completely into what some rapporteurs have done and saying that this social pillar is almost the abolition of the nation state, I think it is worth looking at what the substance of it really is. What is actually the content of the proposal that the Commission made, which has been submitted for consultation, and in which we are now waiting for a debate on the basis of that consultation phase? It is to look at how we can establish, to agree that there are some rights that all citizens have not to the other countries, no, but as citizens where they live in relation to equal opportunities for access to the labour market, fair working conditions, adequate social protection, the right to education. Well, what exactly can we disagree with? What can we disagree with when we say that this is actually something that we ourselves, together in Europe, think we should agree that all countries should offer their citizens? Well, that makes sense. Surely it is right that we should also look at the fact that strong European cooperation is about something other than the market. It is also about people and how we can make each other smarter on each other's systems, learn from each other. What lies precisely in this social pillar is nothing to do with going in and taking national competence from the individual countries. That is why I think it is important that we enter this debate openly when the Commission has now played out. Now we know that there has been a consultation phase in Denmark, and a number of others have responded. So let us look at what is coming, discuss the content, instead of shouting straight away: the wolf is coming and the nation state is quitting to exist tomorrow. Because it doesn't. This is just about how we can set up a framework that enables us as a community to measure each other on some social factors and not just on the economy. And we actually think that's very sensible. I would like to read out a proposal for adoption on behalf of the Radical Left and the Alternative, which reads: Proposal for adoption The Parliament wants European cooperation, in which not only economic rights are given priority, but also environmental and social rights, and therefore believes that the work on a social pillar is a sensible step in the development of the European Union. Parliament notes that the Commission has launched an official consultation on the establishment of a European pillar of social rights and, on this basis, will provide a reflection paper on what it thinks the European pillar should look like. Parliament looks forward to a common frame of reference for examining the social performance of the participating Member States. Parliament looks forward to seeing the Commission's proposals after the consultation phase. • V 68).
ParlaMint-DK_20170331150051	Thank you. There are a few brief comments and the first is from Claus Kvist Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331150056	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. I have noticed that in so many contexts, and now in this context too, the rapporteur has the concept of people: it is about people, we are all people and so on. It seems as if the rapporteur is of the opinion that as soon as you just play the word 'people', such a shine is slipping over it, and then you are protected from criticism, for who wants to criticize people or, incidentally, a rapporteur who cares about people? However, would the rapporteur not agree that if all EU citizens have their rights strengthened, especially social rights, there will be one, if not an incentive, but then a risk that those countries that have the strongest welfare systems will receive more EU citizens who need social benefits? In fact, I hope and believe that the rapporteur will confirm this, and if that is the case, then there are some people in order to stay in the rapporteur's language now who have to pay for the other people, which means that nothing is free here. When you care about people and some have to pay for those people, then there are some people who have to pay. In other words, would the rapporteur not agree with me that this could mean that Danish taxpayers are being even harder strained on the wagon in order to say that they are providing for the citizens of other countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20170331150227	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331150236	I always welcome criticism, and I always like to engage in dialogue on both people and everything else on this earth. I think it is important to consider what this is really about, what is in the Commission's proposal. The Commission has come up with a proposal to provide a framework for assessing the results of the participating countries, actions in the social and employment fields. Assess each other! There will be no European rights that we have to give to God and every man who wants to move across borders. These are assessment tools, just as we do when it comes to the economy. So I think it is a pity that the author of the question confuses several things in this particular social pillar and saw what another rapporteur has said, which is a social protocol and which I would also like to discuss very much. But these are two different things, and I think that should be a little clear now, so that there is something called a social pillar and others are talking about a social protocol. It is a little destructive for the debate to mix the two things together.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331150329	The questioner. That's it? Then we move on to the next question, and that's sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331150338	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. I agree that it is therefore very important to distinguish between the proposals of the trade union movement for a social protocol and the Commission's talk of a social pillar. These are two diametrical contradictions, and it is quite important to emphasise this. I tried to keep up with that proposal for adoption, but perhaps I overheard something, because I did not think I heard just the shadow of concern that the Commission is setting out very clearly to change matters of competence, so that some issues that are currently exclusive for the Member States should be transferred to EU competence. It has been mentioned here that these are a number of crucial issues for Denmark, and these have been crucial issues for Denmark since the debate on membership, and we have, after all, agreed on this at home. Then things have not quite gone as some claimed they would go, because the European Union has actually interfered extensively in those areas. But now we want to transfer further competence, and that is for example. pay, it is working time, it is pension conditions, it is a large number of factors, and the Ministry's note examines very specifically where there is a transfer of competence ■ very precisely even. I do not detect the slightest concern about that in the proposal for adoption • How can that be?
ParlaMint-DK_20170331150454	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331150500	First of all, I don't know what Mr. Finn Sørensen has seen, but I have not seen the Commission's proposal. I saw a proposal that has been sent to the hearing and that they will make a proposal on the basis of. If sir... Finn Sørensen has already seen it, I think that Mr. Sørensen... Finn Sørensen is the only one here in the Folketing who's seen it. I have not seen it because it has not been sent to the European Committee, as it has not been sent around yet. A proposal has been submitted for consultation. Then I hear a lot of criticism, i.e. the transfer of competences. I have also seen the hearing answer given by the Ministry and, as such, I do not agree with all the answers given by the Ministry, just as I also know that the questioner does not always agree when ministries assess whether it is national or EU competence. We have a number of other cases where it is often discussed. But I still think it is sensible to say to each other that everyone has the right to a fair working environment. I do not see it as interfering with national competences. It is therefore a matter of agreeing to say what is fair and reasonable for all citizens of the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331150552	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331150558	You could call it a playback or a message. The Commission calls it a communication, and I say it is a proposal for a hearing. It is the Commission's position that is described there, and it is the Commission that is the legislator. After all, it is the Commission that has the right of initiative. That is why it is not insignificant what the Commission is proposing. After all, it is the Commission that will lay the foundations for the debate that will have to take place in the European Union when the Commission has looked at consultation answers and everything else. So what the Commission is proposing is not insignificant. I just have to say that it is difficult to discuss in such a very short exchange of words as we have here, but the Ministry's note carefully examines the points where the Commission will have changed its powers, including those where it will not, and I think it is a very sober and precise description. You cannot disagree with the facts; it is just to look up the Treaty and see what it says. It is just to look up legislation and see where the European Union has competence and where the European Union does not have. So the rapporteur has to do that in the Ministry. I think it is very clear. I am concerned that the rapporteur and the other party that signed the agreement do not see that there are any problems with regard to the transfer of competence that the Commission is seeking.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331150709	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331150713	Forgive me for laughing at the rapporteur, but it was actually because right here it is clearly quite right what the Ministry brings about assessments of national competence and EU competence, but in a number of other cases we are always discussing it. This has also been discussed in the Parliamentary Committee on Europe, where we have also examined this consultation answer and discussed what it is really about and where it is these competences lie. And there I have also expressed our party's disagreement on some of those points. Once again, I just have to point out that the message has been sent to the hearing, and then there will be a call for it to come here at the end of April and then I will be happy to take a position on it again. But let us now deal with facts and not with fantasy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331150751	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist. There are no more brief comments. And Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen from the Radical Left is the next rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331150801	The Socialist rapporteur began by talking about Commissioner Thyssen's line, and I had actually proposed that too. It is also quite crucial to me and to the Radical Left that there is no economic progress without social progress or social progress without the economy being in order. It is also quite fundamental to the foundations on which my party stands. But Marianne Thyssen also asked when she was in Denmark: How can it really be that here in Denmark you are rightly proud of your welfare society and your high wage level, but at the same time do not really seem to want other European countries to be able to achieve the same levels, the same rights and the same opportunities? On the other hand, what I did not hear the Commissioner say when she presented the principles and, as I have not heard any representatives of the EU institutions say, they should want to undermine the Danish labour market model. On the contrary, the Commission has repeatedly confirmed that there is no intention whatsoever, and there is nothing in the Commission's preliminary communications and principles to do so. Nevertheless, there is in some way an undertone of the fact that it is probably coming soon that they are just waiting to be able to say it. But for me, it doesn't make any sense at all. It's the opposite. I think that this debate is often breathed into fear and there are very few ambitions on behalf of the community. We cannot and should not subject other EU countries to our Danish model of legislation and agreements in the labour market and in social policy, but I find it very difficult to understand why the social security, the security that we have developed with the Danish model, should not be something that we would also like to help other EU countries to develop their bid through EU coordination in this area. There is, of course, a framework for this, and that is what the Commission wants to develop, at least in the proposal. And, by the way, it's on the education of the nation states. That is why I think it is often the case in this debate that it is presented as if it were going to happen at the expense of us and our own model if we help others to achieve better levels, more rights and more opportunities. But is that really so? Is there any indication that we are undermining our own legislation or in any way undermining the Danish model by means of the EU method of coordination, which is what exists in this area? If we help others to raise their levels and share their experiences and ideas and push on, are we undermining our own opportunities? I find that very difficult to see. The European Union was formed on the basis of the basic principles of more and freer trade across national borders, and since then cooperation in the context of world developments has grown and become a transnational community. This has happened because companies have internationalised and digitised what we very often popularly call globalisation, if you can say so. We have had to deal with this in European cooperation, too, in order to ensure that people cooperate. It has ensured better conditions for the environment and climate; it has preserved peace; it has intensified the prosperity of all of us in Europe. However, it is clear that with the expansion of the internal market, there will also be more common challenges, and one of those challenges is the lack of social security for the European citizen when he moves across borders to work. And it is fundamental for the European Union that cooperation is based on fundamental rights. We ourselves have worked hard to include them in the treaties on which we are based: combating discrimination based on nationality, sex, age, sexuality, race or religion. It is absolutely fundamental in this cooperation that we stand on the fundamental European and Danish values. I see the Commission's proposal on the principles of a social pillar, a communication that is now in consultation broader than ever, as a quite cautious step towards ensuring that we in the European Union stick to doing what we have always said we will do, namely helping each other to better conditions. The former rapporteur read out the proposal for adoption which the Radical Left also supports, and it should be clear that that is what we think.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331151410	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Claus Kvist Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331151414	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's statement. I was just about to say that I almost always, or at least most often, when I hear Radical Left voice on EU matters, so little does this wrong feeling, this surprise that some people are going to venture to question this gilded European project. I have to say that the rapporteur fully meets that expectation. It seems that the rapporteur does not want to link the economy to these dreams of the development of social rights. So I just want to hear: does the rapporteur not see that the development and strengthening of the social rights of EU citizens, with a certain probability, could result in a greater drain on welfare benefits from Denmark to the citizens of other EU countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20170331151516	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331151519	I think it is very good that we have this debate, and I think that the rapporteur and I are fundamentally in complete disagreement as to what direction we are going to take. But what I am concerned about is what ambitions we have for the community; what ambitions we have for where we are going. I think I tried to outline some of the ambitions that we have in the Radical Left, because they are also about raising the basic levels in other countries of the European Union and sharing our good experiences with them, because we believe that in the end we will benefit from this. If, for example, the basic levels of rights... If wages increase in some of the other European countries, it will actually benefit Denmark as well. Then we can concentrate more on combating social dumping, and we are also very concerned about this in the Radical Left. For the present and with the principles that lie here, I see no threat at all on the contrary. I see opportunities in that we can better develop and raise levels and our common prosperity in Europe across countries, because our labour markets are linked because our economies are linked. There we cannot, in my view and in the view of the Radical Left, and that is enough where the waters separate our economy and the labour market and say that it is on its own island and that we treat it for ourselves. On the other hand, the European Union's internal market is, after all, about the free movement of workers. You can only benefit from benefits in this country if you work and pay taxes. We think that is fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331151705	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331151708	Thank you. This is how I believe that Denmark's net contribution to the EU every year is currently in the region of 10 billion. kr. In short and in cash: will the rapporteur expect this figure to be higher or lower if the EU is given the opportunity to continue in that path towards a social union, and why?
ParlaMint-DK_20170331151730	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331151734	I have no pre-conditions for guessing that in numbers. What is fundamental here is surely: do I believe that participating in European cooperation, in the European Union, with all the policies it covers, is a gain for Denmark economically and in all sorts of other areas, or do I think it would be an economic gain for Denmark to withdraw from the European Union? I can promise that I only believe in the first.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331151800	Thank you to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Karsten Hønge of the Socialist People's Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331151809	One of the crossroads we face is whether we want a social Europe or whether we want social dumping. The SF wants a European Union in which all workers in Europe have a fair chance, but that does not mean that we support a so-called social union, even though that concept can be used for very different purposes. I have noticed that many people like to get lost in discussions about whether something is almost a social union, a social dimension, perhaps a social contract, or what about a summit declaration? The point for us is that whatever you call it, we need to find a balance between the very sophisticated Danish model of the labour market and social rights for all wage workers in Europe. The labour markets have become international and there is a need to have tools that match the challenges it presents. What must be clear is that the rights of workers must prevail over the freedom of movement of undertakings. The free movement of capital must not end up being the free movement of capital into the pockets of employers. But the answer is not that the nation states are crawling around themselves. The European Union must respect the different labour market models of the countries, but we must not have a supranational social union. You can call it what you want, but what it is all about is that there is a need to defend the workers and their professional organisations, including the European Union. The right to free, independent, powerful trade unions is closely linked to the right to conflict for ordinary people's relationships through collective agreements. We must put people before businesses. Then I would like to say that the SF can endorse the proposal for adoption which has been put forward by Mr Beazley. Claus Kvist Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331152040	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Sorry, there is a brief comment if the rapporteur wishes to accept it. It's from sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331152051	Thank you for the rapporteur's willingness and speedy entry of the stairs to the platform. It was for the rapporteur to get some exercise that I pressed a little late! My question is somewhat the same as that of the rapporteur for the Radical Left. In other words, as I read the Commission communication, it is very clear that the European Union must have more competence in some areas in which it does not have competence today. These are salaries, working hours and pension conditions. I think that the Ministry has gone through fairly soberly what it is, and otherwise you can just read inside. And that's where I'm gonna ask Mr. Kim. Karsten Hønge, if he is not concerned about those parts of the Commission communication.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331152130	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331152133	Well, as I said, I think that is the most important objective, and that is to defend the interests of the workers. I said in relation to the announcement that has been made that neither do we think that we should give in to supranational social union in any way. However, I would like to say, on the other hand, that I do not share the tendency of the Enhedslisten in the EU context, perhaps not generally, but at least in the EU context, to always be long-term disappointed and deeply concerned. I think we should be able to see whether the European Union is an instrument that could be fenced in to defend the interests of workers, and we believe that this is actually possible in relation to the text we endorse.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331152218	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331152222	In other words, the rapporteur is not really concerned when the Commission proposes that the European Union should have some more competence in matters where we have all agreed so far to say that the European Union should not interfere with this: our labour market model, our collective agreements, which are, after all, the ones that have to decide on pay and working hours and, to a certain extent, also on pension payments, and welfare benefits? These are, after all, a number of points in which the Commission is proposing to cut something more from our right to self-determination, either as trade unions or as Member States, and to transfer it to the European Union. Well, I can't really figure out where I have the rapporteur in this. Is that troubling? Is this something the rapporteur is in favour of, or is it something the rapporteur is opposed to?
ParlaMint-DK_20170331152311	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331152314	But I think we have taken a position on this through the proposal for adoption. Of course, we are concerned when the European Union tries to conquer extra countries, but I tried to make an effort in my rapporteur's speech to try to explain the importance of our having our particular labour market model and that the European Union must respect the labour market models that exist in the countries and the importance of workers having access to conflict for their interests. However, I am not busy in all sorts of contexts always having to find some justification for why the worst is to be expected from the European Union. I note, in Denmark, as in the rest of the European Union, that the extreme right and the extreme left have come together in always blaming both the internal market and outer space for everything.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331152355	Thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge. The last one was supposed to be sir. Rasmus Jarlov, but he does not appear to be here, and that is why it is the Minister for Employment who is now being given the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331152410	Thank you. And let me thank you for a very interesting debate in many ways, which has come quite well around the corners of European cooperation. I do not have so much to add in relation to the relatively detailed answer I gave to Mr Seligman. Claus Kvist Hansen, who, if I may say so myself, was very satisfactory. I guess that's the thing to say to Mr. Kim. Claus Kvist Hansen, that there was a discussion based on what I had in my speech, about who Mr. Claus Kvist Hansen experienced security in relation to. What I was hoping with the speech was to be able to provide security for the government's agenda, not security for the European agenda, the EU agenda. So I actually think that Mr. Claus Kvist Hansen may have deliberately or unconsciously come to misunderstand the message that was sent. I am one hundred per cent in favour of the proposal for adoption tabled by a broad majority in the Danish Parliament. First of all, I welcome the fact that there is an awareness of the initiatives taken by the Commission, which has also led to a major debate in a large number of EU countries, or at least on the part of a large number of governments. Now we have to wait and see what the Commission chooses to do on the basis of the consultation that has taken place. And then I look forward to discussing this issue in depth with the Danish Parliament. And now, at least, there is a very clear signal from Danish and therefore from the government about what priorities Denmark will be advocating in future discussions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331152550	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Claus Kvist Hansen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331152554	Thank you, Minister. The Minister can be quite confident that I am relatively confident about the attitude of the government towards social union, and I am also quite confident that the Minister has understood that this was, for my part, an intentional misunderstanding. So we're all safe. After all, we have looked ahead and we are, in any case, somewhat in agreement on what we do not want from the future. I would like to hear the Minister's position on the social dimension that is currently in the European Union, because, as the Minister also stated in his speech, we already have social obligations. We can look at such somewhat uncomfortable conditions as for example. the fact that, in 2015, as far as I can see, the daily allowance was paid in the region of 720 million. kr. In the case of migrant workers, the Social Fund is set up in the region of 0.5 billion ECU from Denmark to migrant workers and in the region of 0.5 billion ECU from the Social Fund to the Social Fund for migrant workers. kr. This year. Does the Minister think that this is an appropriate level, that is to say that we have now reached an appropriate level of our social obligations, or should we really take a back seat? Does the Minister have any comments on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20170331152709	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331152711	So, basically, I think it is important to discuss how freedom of movement is linked to a concept such as the migrant worker and how these things make the best sense. And I must not hide the fact that a few days ago we had a lengthy debate here in Parliament on another important EU issue, namely Regulation 883, which concerns part of what Mr. Claus Kvist Hansen asks about this. For the sake of completeness, I think I will refer to the relatively long answer I gave to the question during the debate in which I owe it to say that the Danish People's Party was also represented, however, by another rapporteur, but it should not come to Mr. Claus Kvist Hansen hurt.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331152753	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331152756	Well, I understand that the Minister will not repeat a debate that has already been held, but I would just like to ask for a very short answer. It must be made relatively short: does the Minister see a future for himself where we are trying to reverse a little, or does the Minister think that the level we have at the moment is appropriate with the figures I mentioned before?
ParlaMint-DK_20170331152816	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331152819	I am never in a position to reply briefly to anything, but I can give one example. It is not without reason that we are now fighting for an indexing of child benefit. It is precisely to say that there must be more fairness and more reason in relation to how the rules should be forward-looking. And it will, of course, be a break if we succeed in creating the opportunity for it. So this is just one example of us trying to make more sense of the EU rules that are in force today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331152850	Thank you, Minister. Sir. Claus Kvist Hansen has wanted to speak in the second round as a sort of conclusion, I understand, so he is welcome on the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331152904	Thank you. I will try to make a few summary remarks, and I would like to start by saying a great deal of thanks to all the rapporteurs for good kicks and good, firm positions and, at the very least, a very interesting afternoon on this most sacred Friday. If I am going to try to sum up how I think I have heard the various considerations, I can say, and here the rapporteurs must forgive me for having a tendency to subjectify what I hear, it is sometimes a little more funny that I sense that the Social Democrats now have a sneaking realistic view of what the EU's level of ambition is about and, if that is true, I am delighted. What can I say for the Left? It is true that there are many European companies and industries which greatly value the European Community and the favourable rules for trade that exist. We cannot avoid that, but I would say that cooperation can also be achieved without having a supranational entity to dictate the rules for cooperation. You've had it through history, and you can have it, just saying. I take note of a remark made by the rapporteur on behalf of the Left that welfare benefits should, as far as possible, remain in Denmark. That is how I heard it, and if it is correctly understood, I fully agree. That sounds good to me. As far as the Enhedslisten is concerned, this is not the first time that I agree with Enhedslisten in various considerations, but it is on the basis of such a 180-degree argument. But I will not go into the whole discussion that Enhedslisten put forward. I can only note that if the Enhedslisten rejects the Commission's proposal, that is good enough for me. I'll leave it at that, and I think it's gratifying. As far as the Liberal Alliance is concerned, there was, as expected, support for the free movement of workers, just as there was for the Enhedslisten. The Enhedslisten lives in the belief that it is worthwhile for Denmark to have Eastern European labour force with unhindered access to it. I can only say that I completely disagree with that, and we will never agree. The Danish People's Party does not believe in the idea of the free movement of workers, but we are, of course, pleased that there is something called labour mobility. But freedom of movement basically means that Denmark gives up its right to decide who should come in and who should be here for how long, and we do not like that. As far as the alternative is concerned, it is about people that I mentioned, and then I did not get much closer to what the alternative really stands for. Must be because it's a late Friday, but I'm working on it. As far as the Radicals are concerned, there was, as expected, a slightly reassuring attitude towards the whole EU project and the visions of the future of social rights, and that was probably what I expected: we cannot get too much of the European Union and any cost to the European Union is justified. I guess I'll never agree with that either. Overall, I think that this has been an incredibly exciting debate. I am of course forgetting to say, in the case of the SF, that I am pleased that the SF supports the draft proposal for adoption. It is really nice, and I note again that the SF and the Danish People's Party find the areas where we agree rather than going and finding the areas where we disagree. So it's a great pleasure for me. Actually, I don't think I have any more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331153306	There are some who have more, because there are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331153312	I would like to thank the rapporteur for summing up the positions of the various parties. Surely it has yet to be established that there is a broad majority in the Folketing who are opposed to giving the European Union more power over some very important issues such as our labour market rules and access to welfare services. Then we have very different reasons for doing so. In any case, there are two blocks: the one in which the rapporteur is involved, which includes a whole lot of parties, and then the Enhedslisten. But that is not insignificant in the further debate. What I just had to ask was that I have probably not listened properly to what the rapporteur had put between the Liberal Alliance and the Enhedslisten. When the rapporteur referred to the view of the Liberal Alliance, there was some strange parallel to the Enhedslisten, which I did not just understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331153405	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331153408	I do not want to say anything like that, I think it would be tighter, but I hear the Enhedslisten's rapporteur say that people are in favour of the free movement of workers, as I hear the Liberal Alliance rapporteur say. Of course, it's just a recital, but it was where I saw the parallel. If I've misunderstood, sir. Finn Sørensen, I apologise for the rapporteur's view on the free movement of workers, I naturally withdraw it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331153434	It is permitted both to say "Mr." Finn Sørensen and the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331153441	In any case, the rapporteur has not listened properly to the many times I have explained that we need to change the rules of the European Union on so-called free movement, and this will, of course, result in some restrictions in the definition of free movement given by the European Union. So I think the rapporteur should be aware of that. The proposal for a social protocol alone would, of course, be a major interference with the EU's rules on freedom of movement, as defined in the Treaty today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331153509	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331153514	Then I would ask the rapporteur, sir. Finn Sørensen, I'm sorry. It was certainly neither a provocation nor any intentional misunderstanding; that is just how I heard it. I'm sorry about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331153521	Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331153524	Thank you. It is always such a bit when you go out of the Chamber after such a question debate that you think: what did I get with me? And then it is exciting to hear the rapporteur's very selective and extremely subjective collection. It is almost a pity that we have been sitting here and debating if that is what came out of this debate, or at least what was received by one of the authors of this debate. But I really would like to hear Mr. Claus Kvist Hansen on whether he knows the difference between the social pillar that we are discussing here, that is to say the proposal for discussion and consultation that has been sent from the Commission, and so what is called a social protocol that has been referred to by the Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331153614	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331153618	These are some definitions that I do not really intend to go into in depth. I am looking at the overall picture, i.e. how I see the Commission's level of ambition in relation to what has been presented.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331153629	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331153633	Okay, maybe we should be informed about that before, because we are discussing the development of the social rights pillar. In other words, the word 'pillar' is used to refer to the project that has been in consultation, which we are waiting for the outcome of. It is always a pity when you have a debate where you talk in this way in different ways and a little past each other. And then you go home with this very selective and subjective thing that the rapporteur has also presented to us.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331153656	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331153700	But this is probably neither the first nor the last time, the rapporteur and I also see people talking past each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331153709	We will let that be the last word for today, because no one else has signed in. So we also thank Mr. Claus Kvist Hansen. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. As mentioned above, the vote on the three proposals for adoption will not take place until Tuesday 4 April 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20170331153734	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting, except that we all thank you for today's work in the service of the people's government. I think everyone with a good conscience and joy in their hearts can have a weekend now. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 4 April, at 1 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which is also shown on the Danish Parliament's website. Have a good weekend!
