ParlaMint-DK_20171103100001	The meeting is open. There are today the following reviews: Kim Christiansen (DF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 23 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on driving licences for large mopeds for 16-year-olds and small motorcycle for 17-year-olds). Trine Bramsen (S) and Rasmus Horn Langhoff (S): Motion for a resolution No. B-24 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on better and more targeted action for the victims of psychological violence). Søren Egge Rasmussen (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 25 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on better and simpler rules for climate adaptation in municipalities). Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 26 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution stating that calculations and oil price scenarios underlying future political agreements are based on an expectation that the Paris Agreement's climate objectives will be achieved). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20171103100105	The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Prehn, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103100135	After all, this bill follows on from good, constructive and cooperative cooperation between the transport rapporteurs, in relation to looking first and foremost at the way in which we fasten tariffs in public transport. I think most people have noticed that for many years there has been the problem that it wasn't really able to understand the way the tariffs were screwed up. People could tell strange stories that they paid one price to drive one way and another price to drive the other way, and even worse, there were some who could tell that they had to solve the ticket to a station even further away than the one they needed to, in order to save money. It screamed to the sky of incompetence and lack of logic in this area. Therefore, there has been broad agreement that this was something we should have looked at, that it was something we should have changed, and at some point it was also the case that the Reichsaudit itself actually required us to correct this illogical price structure as there has been in this area. We put ourselves together to do that, and it was under former Transport Minister Hans Christian Schmidt that we started this work, where we got some of these things changed. In fact, there was a minister who took a great deal of responsibility at the time, also to make some rather unpopular decisions. I think you should sign for that. It's hard decisions to change this with the tariffs, because if you're going to make the tariff systems more fair for most people, some of those who may have had a bit of unreasonably good conditions for a long time will feel that they're going to suffer. So it's a very, very difficult balance. We started by looking at Takst Sjælland, and now we have looked at Takst Vest, which is about Funen and Jutland, and there we have also got the country a good solution. What has happened is that when you change something like that, it is difficult to do it in a way without anyone seeing price increases. There we also saw, unfortunately, that there were some who experienced equally quite violent price increases, and in fact some who experienced something with 70-80 per cent. Increases in their prices • many thousands of kroner a year. However, we thought that was a little too violent, and if we had forgotten it, our persistent and omnipresent representative from the Enhedslisten, Mr. Henning Hyllested made us aware of it and bit us in the hamstrings and said that it is therefore too bad and that this is important. That's why we chose to take responsibility. It was not all the parties of the Folketing, but the parties in the conciliation circle for better and cheaper public transport, which is, of course, a majority outside the government, who then said that we must set aside 15 million. kr. a year to mitigate the consequences for those who are hit hardest. After all, we fully agree that there must be greater justice, that there must be greater logic in this, but it should not be the case that people are experiencing huge increases that make the whole foundation for making their private economy coherent can be challenged. We have taken that responsibility on board in the conciliation circle, and I am pleased and proud, as Social Democrat rapporteur, that we are in the broad conciliation round around the government. Then, with this proposal, it is also proposed that we implement the agreement that we made on 9 June, where we make additional offers on a number of lines. We renew the offer in Vestjylland, but we are also planning to make a tender at Svendborgbanen, and then we propose that there are regional solutions around the country. We support this on the part of the Socialist Group. We have been in the agreement and we think it is sensible and positive. Perhaps there are those who will say: Haven't you had a report at the Social Democratic Congress, where you have reported bastant in relation to a strong DSB? Yes, we have, and we stand by that, a strong message. It is, after all, a little bit about us reacting to the fact that, in the middle of the fact that we had made this broad agreement by good collegiate cooperation, the government thought that it should announce a rather liberalist privatisation strategy in which to send S-trains and everything else in tenders. There we thought it was time to use our congress to also send out a clear message that we Social Democrats want a strong and proud DSB as the backbone of Danish railways, and that is the starting point for us. That is why we will also go to the debates that will be held this autumn, on the basis that we must maintain a strong and proud DSB as the backbone of public transport. But an agreement of 9 June on some regional solutions and other things, of course, we stand by. It is a good, pragmatic solution and it must be allowed to work, and then we must look at how we do it from there.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103100630	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Kim Christiansen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103100641	Thank you. After all, not everything in life has to be easy. It has to be said that this exercise has not been done either. This has been a difficult process, probably primarily due to the fact that you have as many players in Copenhagen and on Zealand as you have. For several years I have been advocating that there should be one transport company on Zealand, but that has not been the case. At one point they made such a superstructure, an extra layer on the pie, so it hasn't become more edible, it's just given a little extra bureaucracy, but then all the directors kept their posts. But it is so gratifying that, after all, we have now come together and had this tariff harmonization achieved. And as Mr. Rasmus Prehn said so well, it is so when you do something like that that you may not always hit the spot. There are some who are experiencing very large price increases, and then some who have, fortunately, also experienced savings, and we rarely hear from them. Sir. Rasmus Prehn has also said so well that we in the conciliation circle have tried to take the top of the worst price increases by 15 million. kr. annual agreement on better and cheaper public transport over the coming years. So it is gratifying, and we hope that this at least in the long run, even when we come to West Denmark and have to do the same exercise, will, after all, provide a fairer tariff system. Then the bill also opens up the possibility that some DSB lines can now be run by the regions. After all, the exercise has been done up in North Jutland, and it is said to be going really, really well up there. It's just a shame you haven't drove it all the way to Hobro, but it's such a small wish that I could have as a local man up there, so you covered the whole Region of North Jutland and didn't cut the bottom off. But it is a success in North Jutland after all. Now you do the same with Køge-Roskilde, handing it over to the East Railway, and we do an exercise over in the West Jutland with the VLTJ track, which now also gets the opportunity to run on some of the current Arrival lines. As such, DF could easily see additional lines in the same way, e.g. Holbæk-Kalundborg. You could get an excellent near track with Tølløsbanen and Odsherredsbanen and then possibly hook Kalundborg on. So this is something that allows for more flights, better regional traffic, and we need that. In terms of strengthening DSB and Mr. Rasmus Prehn just mentioned it, but now I'm not gonna blame him. Rasmus Prehn for the statements that came to Congress, for they obviously came from someone who didn't know as much about public transport as Mr. Rasmus Prehn is doing well, I would say that we are also in favour of a strong DSB. We just need to find the role they need to have in the future. And I see them very much as, what do you say, a great player on the lines of the lines that we are together electrifying and, on the other hand, I think that the rest will be offered, where other players will then be able to bid in and play a role there. If you can find the right mix, I think it will benefit public transport. So the Danish People's Party can of course support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103101002	There are questions. Sir. Henning Hyllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103101005	That's right for Mr. Knox. Kim Christiansens's comments on the part of the bill, which deals with the possibility opened up in the agreement, about the supply or re-supply of train traffic in Central and West Jutland, the possibility that VLTJ can start running on some of Arriva's routes. There is, of course, a very interesting response, I think, from the Danish Industry and their member organisations and also from Arriva, which points out that if you divide up rail traffic, as you will do, if you start to cut into Arriva's sections, you make it harder to coordinate, and you lose, and also those economies of scale. This is a slightly interesting consultation answer, because Arriva does not have the same concerns when it comes to DSB lines • seemingly. Nevertheless, I think that is a correct consideration. I'd like to hear that, sir. Kim Christiansen's comment on.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103101109	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103101110	After all, I have been the banner leader of the VLTJ, which is the last part of the Central Jutland railways, in that the Odderbane turned into an easy track. I think if you could strengthen this track, it's real common sense. So, on the one hand, it is at least a strengthening of the VLTJ track and their activities and perhaps also a little guarantee that in the future we will also have the train traffic to the extremes of Denmark, and then I am, on the other hand, less worried, because now it is not Arriva as such that we are going in and are some bad people towards. After all, this is being offered, and nobody says that it is Arriva who wins that offer, but it is true that the upcoming player will get a little less drive in West Jutland, but in return Svendborgbane and other lines will come along. So I'm quite comfortable with the way we knitted it together.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103101203	Sir. Henning Hyllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103101205	Don't worry about it at all, sir. Mr Kim. - ChristiansenDA) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. After all, there is almost no limit to how little bites you can actually divide it up into. We also know it from the West Railway, as Mr. By the way, Kim Christiansen has been a strong advocate, and good for it, but where it is Arriva, there is what to say, a sub-contractor, or it is Arriva, who is lying and running on that course of training from the Region of South.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103101238	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103101239	The last solution could also have been chosen, as has been done on the West Railway. Now you have chosen this solution, and then you can say that you will at least strengthen a small player so that the player is not so small anymore. So I'm still not worried.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103101255	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, Left, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103101310	Thank you for that, President. With the bill here we are making some technical changes that make it easier to standardise the prices of Takst Sjælland and Takst Vest. These are, of course, clarifications and adjustments, and that means that prices in this price and tariff hierarchy and standard products are logically harmonised. As other rapporteurs have explained, we had some really illogical and opaque tariffs, not least on Zealand, but also in some places in West Denmark, and we have had a very good cooperation across parties to clean up and work well with the relevant transport companies, and I would like to acknowledge and thank you for that. 'Cause it's gonna have to be because of this change of law. Then it has also been mentioned that there have been some rather violent effects on a number of passengers, and of course we have agreed to mitigate them. I would like to sign for Enhedslisten's efforts in this regard, and we support what is now in place. I think that this is a very sensible solution, and even though the money has been provided in the better and cheaper conciliation circle, with which the rest of us have a friendly relationship in this way, we naturally support what is here. The second part is that it will be possible for the Minister to entrust the State's responsibility for traffic purchases on the route between Køge and Roskilde to Region Sjælland and on the route between Skjern and Holstebro to Region Midtjylland, and we also welcome that. We look at Zealand that there can be a really good and coherent train operation out of this, and we note that the region is interested in fulfilling that task. Similarly, it is over in the northwest Jutland. There it is naturally connected when it comes to the distance between Skjern and Holstebro, when you change the traffic pattern throughout the region. Because that is what is happening with the agreement that has been reached. So it's quite natural, and personally I have a strong preference for the VLTJ. It's fantastic to drive that railroad beyond the dunes and up to Thyborøn, especially for those of us who love dry fish. So I think it is a very good thing that this course will be strengthened. After all, as has also been mentioned, we reached an agreement in June 2017 on the supply of the mid- and west Jutland train operation with the Svendborg railway, and it was a broad agreement, so I must say that I got the coffee in the throat when the Social Democracy prior to their congress suddenly announced that the supply of train operations was one of the worst things that existed. It was simply to be rolled back... we had to understand... we had to go back to a time when DSB had a total monopoly and where it was all cast in concrete. I have allowed myself to call it Soviet railway communism. It was simply an incredible turn to listen to by a party that had just entered into an agreement with all of us. I'm glad to hear that Mr. Knox... Rasmus Prehn here has softened it up a bit and interpreted it, for it was a skew with that message there. I think it's okay to have a strong DSB there are lots of talented employees, but I'd rather have a competitive DSB, and that's exactly what we're getting. DSB is making itself more efficient. In the Social Democratic Report there was also an idea that now you should combine DSB and Banedanmark. In other words, two huge organizations were to be regrouped, one had to understand after they were separated many years ago. Allow me to call that figuratively like mating two male elephants. There may be a lot of trumpeter and dust and stomping out of it, but nothing good comes out of it. So I hope that the Social Democrats will not stick to that element there. But with the little guy on the line, I would like to say that I am glad that with this draft law we will be able to implement the agreement we have reached with a broad political majority. With these words, I should like to say that the Left supports the bill, and I should also welcome the Liberal Alliance and say that they also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103101729	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henning Hyllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103101749	Thank you. After all, the bill here has been made on the basis of the political agreement also first the Takst Sjælland and since Takst Vest, which has been concluded by all parties other than Enhedslisten. It's like old times. It is an agreement which came about after a great deal of criticism from the State auditors, in other words a criticism that the tariffs in public transport were simply impossible to see through for travellers and without logical coherence and coordination. Especially with the introduction of the Travel Card, things actually went very wrong, although the Travel Card provided the opportunity to have a single, uniform and manageable ticket system. The problem was, and is, in our opinion, primarily this tariff competence, namely the right to set tariffs, tariff systems, discount systems, etc. The ideal thing, in our opinion, would be to bring everything together, timetables and tariffs, in one place, and this gave the Travel Map a historic opportunity to do just that. However, it would require that transport companies and train operators should give up power and competence, that is to say, that one should give up one's little kingdom or at least parts of it, and then bad with passengers. It was then also tried to get the Travel Card to yawn over all the many different tariff systems, and it was not at all geared to that, quite the contrary. It was created for simple, uniform systems controlled from one place. I'm just referring to the London Oystercard. So another historic opportunity to strengthen public transport at home was missed. Then you can ask if this bill will be any better. Perhaps, but by reading through, I still have some doubts, and it is again this frivolous tariff competence that this is about and that traffic companies and train operators will continue not to give up. That is why, in my opinion, the draft law leads to different non-uniform devices. In Takst Sjælland, you share the tariff competence between the operators, who then have to agree on tariffs and systems. For the best west there must be 6 pieces. Under Paragraph 6, to describe where the tariff competence lies, because it has chosen partly to separate the tariff competence between transport companies and operators, but also only partially. That, of course, makes it extra complicated. I note, of course, that if there is a disagreement between operators on the pricing, it is after all the Minister of Transport who can set the tariffs. In my opinion, this may be very easily needed when choosing to maintain consensus in the decision-making process. In fact, this was what we in the Enhedslisten thought it should be avoided by putting both tariff and road map competence in one place in one company or in one organisation. So I do not really believe that this agreement really meets the criticism of the auditors of the State, but it has to be up to the auditors of the State to look at it. Well, the biggest stumbling block for Enhedslisten to join the agreement on Takst Sjælland and Takst Vest were, however, the quite violent price increases for quite a few travellers that both systems would and will lead with them. We already pointed out in the course of the negotiations on Taste Zealand that there was no need for the price increases, since in the conciliation circle on better and cheaper public transport we actually had a considerable amount of 429 million at that time. kr. It is an amount that could have been used to counter the tariff increases that were built in Takst Sjælland and later in Takst Vest. Had we then agreed on this, Enhedslisten would have agreed to the agreement, but no one really responded to our approach to the conciliation parties, at least not initially, and an agreement was made with the then Left Government bypassing the Enhedslisten. We were wondering a great deal about the fact that no one was interested in avoiding the price increases that were planned for public transport. The fact that we have later, so to speak, agreed that the price increases for a number of travellers were too severe is evident from the traffic agreement of February of this year, as others have said, and which, of course, allocates 60 million. kr. over 4 years to cope with tariff increases over 5 per cent. I have some questions about this. Some may be most suitable for written answers, but the Minister must also try to assess this. Paragraph 6 (b) states: 5 the average fares for standard tickets must not increase more than the price and wage developments. And in section 6 (b) above. 8, lays down the possibility for the Minister of Transport to lay down more detailed rules on the average increase. I should just like to ask: is this a showdown of the tariff increase ceiling, as we know it, which regulates according to several parameters, and which has meant that public transport charges have increased more than the general price and wage developments suggest? If that is the case, then I think it is actually fine. Paragraph 6c empowers the Minister of Transport to lay down detailed rules on the Youth Card. Could the Minister reveal what changes of rules are envisaged so that the opportunities for free travel and discounts on other journeys for young people with the Youth Card do not deteriorate? And then we have received a briefing from the Minister of Transport yesterday on so-called simplification measures in DSB's product portfolio, as can be said in connection with the entry into force of Takst Vest. The short one is that DSB will phase out a wide range of discount schemes, and that will all the other equally mean tariff increases for travellers who have had the opportunity to avail themselves of the reduced prices. I think that is something we have always said, namely that there are some hidden price increases in these tariff systems.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103102328	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Nikolaj Amstrup, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103102335	Thank you very much. As has been explained by several of the rapporteurs, the basis of the draft law is, of course, that there must be a greater alignment and a fixed price hierarchy in relation to different types of tickets. If you cannot see through a tariff system as a customer, public transport and the desire to use public transport will suffer. So we see it as a positive move and the art of the possible. 'Cause I can agree with Mr. Knox. Henning Hyllested in that if there was greater coordination in this area, it was also more positive. But the draft law before us is what has been possible, and many of the incomprehensibles in relation to the fares that we have been subjected to in the past will be offset by this proposal. Fortunately, there has also been a focus on the fact that in some places it has resulted in sharp price increases, and this has helped to offset, and thanks for that, the better and cheaper conciliation circle, of which we are unfortunately not a part. In addition, the proposal also provides for the possibility for the Region of Zealand and the Region of Central Jutland to take over the traffic buyer responsibility on some routes, if otherwise there can be full agreement on the terms. And that is the wish of the regions, so we naturally support that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103102504	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Marianne Jelved, the Radicals, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103102512	Thank you. As our rapporteur cannot be present today, I shall explain the Radical Left's position on the three legislative proposals that we are dealing with first in the Danish Parliament today. As you know, the first is L 23. To this I would say that the National Audit Office and the consumers have criticised the fact that the tariffs in public transport have been different for no good reason. This is because the tariffs have been different in the old counties and across transport companies. This makes it opaque and unreasonable for citizens, because in practice subsidies for public transport will then be unevenly distributed. That is why the Radical Left is very pleased to achieve uniformity in terms of tariffs, and we are in the agreements that form the basis of the law we are dealing with now. The law also makes it possible to decentralise some railways around the country where the regions want to take over the operation. We in the Radical Left support this because we believe that decisions should preferably be as close to the citizen as possible. That is why we can support L 23.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103102613	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Carl Valentin, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103102621	Thank you. A lot of sensible things have been said here from the platform. I haven't been in the process, so I'm not gonna be bored with a really long speech. The bill here harmonizes and standardises tariffs and regulates harmonisation. That is sensible, and it is for the benefit of passengers. The proposal also opens up the possibility of decentralising the traffic buyer responsibility so that Region Zealand can take over the traffic buyer responsibility for the train traffic service on the railway line between Køge and Roskilde and the Region of Central Jutland can take over the traffic buyer responsibility for the train traffic service on the route between Skjern and Holstebro. The SF is part of the agreement which is the basis of the draft law, and we therefore also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103102703	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Transport, Building and Housing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103102711	Thank you. I would also like to thank the rapporteurs for their positive reception of the draft law. As you know, this bill is among other things. Following the tariff reform Taste Zealand and the forthcoming Takst West reform. The tariff forms stem from a criticism from the National Audit Office and the State Auditors of the previously opaque tariff system. It has therefore been a bottom-up task to make the previous tariff system more uniform, logical and manageable. It is the road hauliers who, on the basis of the Transport Company Act, have the power to set the tariffs. Together with the transport rapporteurs, the former Minister for Transport and Building therefore left it up to the transport companies to come up with a common solution that would make the tariff system simpler. In East Denmark, transport companies have agreed to reform. As you know, Takst Sjælland entered into force on 15 January 2017. In West Denmark, the transport partners are finalising a similar exercise, the forthcoming Takst Western reform, which is expected to enter into force on 18 March 2018. Both tariff reforms enjoy broad support in the Folketing. The primary objective of the draft law is to ensure the harmonisation of tariffs in order to create a logical and manageable tariff system. With the legislative proposal, the harmonisation achieved will be legalized for the benefit of customers in public transport. Another purpose of the draft law is to provide a legal basis for a transfer of State responsibility for the purchase of traffic on selected routes. It is about the possibility to transfer the route between Køge and Roskilde to Region Sjælland and the route between Skjern and Holstebro to Region Midtjylland. The transfer of traffic buyer responsibility for the route between Køge and Roskilde to Region Sjælland has been politically decided. The transfer to the Central Jutland Region presupposes that the conciliation circle approves the operation of the Lemvig track on the Skjern-Holstebro route. This issue will be discussed at the meeting of the Ministry of Transport, Building and Housing on 7 November 2017. The reason for this is the agreement of 9 June 2017 on the re-supply of train traffic in Central and West Jutland, etc., concluded by a broad majority of the government, the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party, the Alternative, the Radical Left and the Socialist People's Party. I look forward to the committee reading in the same positive spirit as at the first reading here.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103102940	Thank you. There's a question. Sir. Henning Hyllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103102943	This is simply a repetition of my question from my rapporteur's speech, because I was somewhat surprised at the wording of the text of the draft law's comments on future tariff increases. Today, tariffs are regulated by means of the tariff increase ceiling, and thus it is such a very precise definition of what parameters you are looking at. In fact, one can read with good will, I think, in the comments on the draft law that the tariff increase ceiling is being abandoned and that the tariffs should now just generally follow the price and wage developments.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103103025	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103103026	This is a very good question, and it is also a question which I would very much like to answer in writing in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103103036	As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Transport, Building and Housing Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103103050	The debate is open. And the first rapporteur is Mr. Rasmus Prehn, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103103107	Here we are dealing with a bill on modernising the traffic law, so that it meets the changes that have taken place on Danish roads. I think we've all noticed that the best way to get walking, cycling or driving in town is to get people on Segways, and they rush off. This is an example of one of the new motorized vehicles. Others may also have noticed that suddenly a skateboard comes at a diabolical speed, wondering why they shouldn't use their own strength to come forward, and then it turns out that they have a remote control in their hand so that they can just steer it electrically and whip off. I was here this summer with my family on vacation in the United States, and there I had the opportunity to try one of these skateboards. There is an unusual amount of speed on them, I would say, and it may also be a very good idea that you have the remote control yourself and have not left it to him who just thought you should try this skateboard, because it can be a really boring experience. But in any case, a great deal is happening in this area, and the Ministry has shown due diligence in saying that we need to look at this area; that we need to adapt the traffic law so that it matches the developments that exist. There will be more and more of these motorized vehicles because battery technology and electric engine technology are developing, so more and more people will drive on these vehicles. Another thing that has been noted is that an ordinary skateboard, which in the old days, when the traffic law was written, was called a rollboard • I think I remember from my childhood in the 1970s, that you were talking about roller boards, but that is what we all call skateboards today • today is seen as a toy and therefore has no legal basis in the Road Traffic Act. And there it has been wisely said by the Ministry of Transport: let us have it written into the traffic law, so it is the case, like roller skates, that you have to go on sidewalks. And that can be sensible enough. We have looked at it from the point of view of the Social Democrats and we have also looked at the answers to the hearings. And it is just that when we work on something like road safety, we have to be very careful, very thorough and be careful that we do not get something done that means that suddenly human lives are in danger. Nor should we have young people sucking off on electric skateboards or anything else without security being controlled. So we generally think that the fact that the Minister is empowered to change the rules in this area may be a good thing, but it is just important that we keep our hands on what it is for some periods to be allowed to do these tests and what is of consultation and evaluation along the way. So we will be very concerned that when, for example, we get there. If this rule changes that skateboards should now also be able to run on the sidewalks, then we need to get it evaluated at some point, so we can see if hell breaks loose on Danish sidewalks because of this, so we have an opportunity to stop again. As far as the smaller motorized vehicles are concerned, as we understand it, we have also seen that the Cyclist League, the Danish Business Council, the Safe Transport Council and others have pointed out that we already have quite a lot of congestion on our bike paths and congestion to an extent that makes some people refrain from cycling. And what we need is that more bicycles, because it is good for the climate, it is good for the environment, it is good for avoiding congestion on the roads, and then it is really good for health. Politiken wrote here the other day that you sort of get as much out of a bike ride as from a tour of the gym, and the research has shown in the past that just one hour by bicycle a week means that you are much better protected against diabetes, cardiovascular diseases and other things. So we're gonna ride a bike more, and if the fact that we're changing these rules means that it's not gonna be possible to get on the bike for Segways, electric skateboards and everything else, then it's not gonna work. That is why we need an evaluation of this, and we are proposing from the Social Democrats that after example. A 3-year period sits down and evaluates these things, that is, when the Minister has put it forward, because it is not the case that there is something concrete here. The Minister should just have the opportunity to make an authorisation, to do something, and we do not quite know what it is; we would like a little more hand in hand with that. We don't know if the Minister of Transport is a bit of a superskater who just wants to make everything free... he's liberal... so suddenly it's gonna be a boring chaos. For this reason, we feel that the Socialist Group is right: let us take care of this, let us get some evaluation in, let us hear the parties that are affected so that we do not destroy road safety. Otherwise, however, we think that the proposal is a timely one and a sensible one for something exciting to happen in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103103603	There's a question. Sir. Henning Hyllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103103606	I think the rapporteur's speech was such a bit both-and-so. I am therefore very positive that the Social Democrats would like to have a little hand in dealing with this, as the rapporteur said, but Mr President. Rasmus Prehn also said at some point that it must be possible to stop again. And there's where I get a little skeptical. Thinks sir. Rasmus Prehn really, it's possible, if you first let this go, to get it back home, if I may say so?
ParlaMint-DK_20171103103639	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103103640	I take it in and out as a compliment that the Enhedslisten's rapporteur considers me to be such a boat-and-man, because I am well aware that Mr. Henning Hyllested is more of a either-or-human being. And there we are a little more pragmatic on the part of the Social Democrats. We both like to ride a bike, we like to walk, and we like to skate, if that's what it is, and that's why there has to be room for this. When something new happens in this area, we also need to look at changing the law. I think the rapporteur is right to say that if we open the door to driving some of these vehicles on, for example. The bike path doesn't say anything about concrete, but that's what you can imagine going to happen then it's gonna be hard to roll it back. Conversely, if it's the case that you experience a lot of insecurity, accidents on the bike paths because of this, we have to be able to pull the hand brake and say: then it's only bikes that have to ride on these bike paths, and then the others have to hold back. After all, we do not know how things are going to turn out. Well, it may also be that there are many who think: it's fun and cool and exciting with these electric vehicles, but frankly, we also have to have some exercise, which is why we keep some of the vehicles where we have to move ourselves, because it's better for the environment and it's better for our health. So let's follow it closely. And I can imagine we're going to pull the brake at some point if it gets out of hand for us or it's going to have negative consequences. So when I say this, please! ) with the evaluation, it is because we are ready for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103103806	Sir. Henning Hyllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103103807	In other words, the Council for Safe Transport directly predicts that there will be more accidents, even of a serious nature, as a result of this. Doesn't that give you cause for thought? There are some answers to the questions put by Mr. Rasmus Prehn himself referred to them and, in addition to that from the Council for Safe Traffic, there are also consultation responses from the Cyclist League and from the Danish Pedestrian Federation and several others, which are of course extremely negative to this. By the way, many of these vehicles are described as actual toys. Got toy space in traffic after mr. Rasmus Prehn's opinion?
ParlaMint-DK_20171103103845	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103103846	First of all, we must focus on road safety. Here I fully agree with Enhedslisten and Mr. Henning Hyllested. That is also why we are proposing to hold hands on this and to evaluate it and to shut it down if it gets too violent. We just have to admit that there are actually people who experience some of these things as a means of transport. When I was in the United States this summer, I saw that it was common that, for example, young high school students drove to and from their school on an electric skateboard. And compared to sitting in a car that pollutes a lot, it may be better for the environment to drive an electric skateboard. And that's why we have to be careful that we're not too stuck in our eyes about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103103929	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions. Then it's mr. Kim Christiansen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103103936	Thank you. I have to say to Mr. Henning Hyllested, that I think I'm gonna be a boat-and-man of this, too. With all these health aspects, as Mr. Rasmus Prehn pointed out that it might have actually been dealt with in a completely different committee. But let us now take this in the Committee on Transport. On the one hand, I think it is very good that we are taking the initiative to create a legal framework for this. But I'm worried about how to enforce it. How are you going to ensure this in relation to these overcrowded sidewalks and pedestrians, where, in addition to the pedestrians, there are several cyclists? I know that now there are skateboards on the walkways. It may well be time to consider whether it is so safe to be a pedestrian. As chairman of the Road Safety Commission, I am also surprised that this has not been sent over to the Road Safety Commission, which is working with the people who have been killed and injured and is constantly trying to bring down the number of them. And now you bring this in with six new types of vehicles. So I'm a little puzzled. I also hope that during the committee procedure we may be able to get the Minister and some of the officials over. Because when I read this, I can see that it's a long, long list of function descriptions and the categories in which these things belong. And I'm gonna need a pixi version of where all this is gonna go. And how do we check that they also drive where we think they should be? I can see that if you live in the country where I live and have 3 km to school, it can be a good thing with a motorized scooter. But we are also talking about big cities, and when I see the bike paths in Copenhagen, I find it hard to see that there should be room for Segways and motorized skateboards and scooters. I'm predicting some sort of holocaust in relation to this. But let us make this clear. I would also like to hear a little about age limits. Because compared to motorized scooters, I can read that they are both described up to 45 km/h and that they are categorized differently if they run over 45 km/h. Well, look here: we've had a discussion without just the last few years, just so that young people of 15 years of age could be allowed to drive a moped that can drive 30 km/h. We're not gonna let 16-year-olds drive on a moped that can drive 45 km/h. and have good brakes and everything, but we would like to let young people or children race on a motorized scooter. I think we might be missing some proportions in this. It may be that I am reading the proposal quite wrong, and then I should like to take my words back. However, I think that we need better information during the committee procedure, and it should be the case that we get the minister and the office over. I would also like to say that this is not necessarily a matter of urgency, and I think it may be something that we owe it to the Road Safety Commission to turn it around.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103104258	There is a question from Mr. Henning Hyllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103104300	I am very, very much in agreement with Mr President. Kim Christiansen in, and Mr. In fact, Kim Christiansen has the role of chairing the Road Safety Commission. Now I was listening very carefully to whether or not there were any positive statements to the draft law, and I could not quite hear that, so when Mr. Kim Christiansen says he's a boat-and-man, so I don't really know. I very, very much agree that this needs to be clarified very carefully in committee. But I'm gonna have to hear sir. Kim Christiansen on something, and of course it is also in his capacity as chairman of the Road Safety Commission. After all, there are some consultation answers, not least from the Council for Safe Transport, which has also been sitting on the Road Safety Commission, which is very, very negative and where there are very, very serious concerns about road safety in relation to this. And what does the chairman of the Road Safety Commission say, or Mr. Kim Christiansen, then?
ParlaMint-DK_20171103104401	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103104404	I'll answer that. Well, when I'm a little bit positive, it's because it might be good enough to get some stuff in and make some laws and some boundaries around it. I also believe that Mr. Rasmus Prehn mentioned that it may well be that at some point you pull the plug and say that enough is enough. Because even though we in the Danish People's Party are often blamed for being technologically affected, I think it is good to develop such toys. I used to be a kid, too, didn't I? We could then settle for less. But so, I think it is fine that we get it into place and set some limits on what we are actually going to allow of all these horror machines that are coming out on the market now. So I'm a little positive about getting it hit, but I'm very interested in hearing what the consequences should be if you break the rules. Because I think we can all agree that there is no control in Copenhagen in relation to cyclists, that is, where you have to go and where you go. I have more of the impression that you drive where you can and not where you can. Now we should not be cutting everyone off, but for a large part of cyclists there is such a spread of anarchism in the big cities and especially in Copenhagen. And if this is going to end in the same ragnark, I am very concerned.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103104522	Sir. Henning Hyllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103104524	That was exactly the last of it, sir. Kim Christiansen said I wanted to ask about. Because some people sometimes express their deep dissatisfaction with the culture of bicycles in Copenhagen, not least, but perhaps in the large cities at all. Kim Christiansen. And I just want to ask, does Mr. Kim Christiansen really that culture will be better for these motorized vehicles? The rapporteur himself referred to the whole issue of control of this, and I fully agree that this is a completely open issue. And when some of these vehicles are declared to be toys, which I agree with, it really has room in the bicycle traffic, as Mr. Kim Christiansen complains a great deal already?
ParlaMint-DK_20171103104618	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103104619	Well, I'll share sir. Henning Hyllesteds's concerns about whether there is room or whether it will lead to a lot of unfortunate situations resulting in injury. But if I choose a little to wear a positive hat in relation to this, it is that if you hit this in and make some legislation about it, then you can also punish for it. That is why I have a little interest in the sanction section. We are very much in favour of riding police, and we also have cycling police. Now you're gonna have to have some politics and pursue these young people on skateboards and stuff? I shall look forward very much to finding out in committee. Because it makes no sense at all to make legislation if you do not intend to have sanctions against those who do not comply with the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103104707	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions. Then it's mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, Left, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103104715	Thank you, sir. President. With the bill here we authorise the Minister to lay down detailed rules for a number of small motorised vehicles, as it says. In recent years we have seen a number of new vehicles that we had never dreamed of coming on the track: UNIWHEELS, Airwheels, two-wheeled self-balancing vehicles, Segboards, motorized skateboards, electrified bicycles running up to 45 km/h, motorized scooters that can run up to 60 km/h. It is a wide range of vehicles that have emerged, and as legislators we can just turn a blind eye and say: well, it is a development, but we do not relate to it. But we do. With this bill, we deal with it, and we say to the Minister: now make some sensible rules where you give some options and fence it in here, so that we do not have a clean anarchy on the sidewalks and bike paths, and so that some sensible rules are laid down which, of course, must take account of road safety. Because we need to take technological developments into account. It has come to stay, and I dare guarantee that it will continue. So I think it's really good that we get to grips with this. But it is also clear that these are some vehicles that we do not have much experience of in the nature of things, all the time that they are completely new inventions. That is why we must, of course, proceed cautiously, and that is what I note the Minister's intention. After all, these are experimental schemes that we are setting in motion. Some more detailed rules need to be drawn up that fence it before, for example. As to whether there could be speed limitation for some of them, it could be with regard to marking them, it might be with regard to age limitation for some of them, so we proceed carefully, and that is also important. Some people are worried about this, as others have also mentioned. In the hearings from e.g. The Danish Pedestrian Federation, the Danish Cyclist Federation and the Safe Traffic Council are expressing some concern about this, and I understand that, because this is a new country. That is why we must, of course, be at the forefront of the challenges that can be posed. And I would therefore urge the Minister that some of the things that will be given particular attention when it comes to making the specific rules are here about what it means now to drive some vehicles on the sidewalk between some pedestrians and what it means on the bike paths, where cyclists sometimes come thundering at 50 km/h. How do you get these conflicts solved? I think the Minister intends to do the same. One could also usefully involve the three organisations here, the Council for Safe Traffic, the Danish Pedestrian Federation and the Danish Cyclist Federation, which of course have some experience from out there. I would urge you to do so. That is what has been passed on. Then I would like to make a general observation, and that is about considerate behaviour in traffic. This applies to all road users: one must be considerate of one another. If you did, there would be far fewer accidents. I have some experience myself. There was a cyclist who torpedoed me over at the Glyptotet at quite a speed, and then some debate has come out of that, and I welcome that. I would like to congratulate the Danish Cyclist Federation for having just grasped the fact that we have too many cyclists driving around with their heads under our arms, loud music in our ears, sometimes on the sidewalk, sometimes against red lights etc. This is totally unacceptable and deadly. So this is an example of how we have to get to grips with this. But it also says that we must also expect these new road users who come here to be considerate. And it is not just us legislators, far from it, who can ensure it; it is also parents who must, of course, raise their children from very young to be considerate, including in traffic. So it's a very important such a more moral aspect of this. I also welcome the fact that a new bicycle policy think tank has been initiated. I would like to pay tribute to this initiative. I hope, then, that considerate behaviour in traffic will be one of the themes that we can discuss in that think tank. But that applies to all means of transport from Segboards to cars and trucks and bicycles: drive properly in traffic! Another observation I would like to make at the end is the general challenge that the number of cyclists is rising sharply, not least here in Copenhagen, and it is indeed pleasing from a whole lot of considerations of health, and that we minimise the hardship and all sorts of other things, but in return there will be congestion on the bike paths. And what happens many times is that the municipalities in question, who are often the ones responsible for bicycle paths, do not invest in infrastructure as much as there is a much more need for capacity. And what happens when there is congestion on the bike paths? Yes, then some come to It is therefore a problem that I would urge you to deal with around, so that you have an adequate infrastructure. We all know, of course, that when there is a queue on the motorways, and there are so many places, we are told, of course, that we need to invest in some asphalt, and I fully agree with that. But this also applies to bicycle paths. When there are a lot of cyclists coming, and it is pleasing, and there should be even more, then you should remember in the City of Copenhagen and elsewhere to invest something in bike paths. With these words, I would say that the Left supports the bill, and I should like to say from the Liberal Alliance that they also support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103105257	There are questions. Sir. Henning Hyllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103105259	Now that you are in a big city like Copenhagen, it can be difficult to expand the road network, so when there are as many more cyclists as there are, there will of course be a battle for the asphalt. There, of course, I am pleased that the Enhedslisten in Copenhagen has said that it is the car at the back and that it has been tried to give more space to cyclists. This is at the expense of cars, because houses are located on every side of the road. Oh. It was actually a little beside the bill, but I would just like to say that one could also imagine about all these vehicles, that they should not be in traffic at all, that they should be in quite a different place in some closed places, I know. It is also, of course, from the point of view of the consultations, not least from the answer given by the Council on Safe Transport, that these are dangerous vehicles, and for many they are toys which are very much driven by what they may be called in such a situation, children. That's where I'm gonna hear Mr. Knox. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen: Is it not a matter of concern to release such vehicles by children in the ordinary traffic which is already, at least in the cities, reasonably hectic?
ParlaMint-DK_20171103105413	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103105413-2	We must always think very carefully when we introduce something new, but the alternative, which would be that we do not deal with it and just let people drive as they please and then hope that there is a cop who picks it up when someone commits illegalities out there, I think is much worse. I think it is a good thing that we are dealing with this and that people with a sense of road safety are making specific rules so that it is fenced in. Because the new technology has come to stay. I think a lot of kids want some of this under the Christmas tree in the coming Christmas, and it's good that we deal with it. So, yes, we must be concerned, but we must not stop developments. We must try to decorate it, relate to it, and then make sure that it is done safely and properly. That is also why I am so strongly in favour of motor sport. Some people are very opposed to motor sports. It's burning the gas off etc., it's speed and racing and stuff. Surely it is far better for young people with petrol in their blood to come in and grow their passions under orderly conditions than for them to drive around like boulevard racers in the big cities.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103105513	Sir. Henning Hyllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103105515	Yeah, well, one way to deal with this is to say that we won't even see that because these vehicles are as dangerous as they really are. There is no indication that they are becoming less dangerous or that technological developments should indicate that they are becoming less dangerous. It is also possible to say that we already have a whole range of means of transport. We got cars, we got bikes, we got mopeds, we got bikes, you name it. So one might ask: is there not really enough means of transport? You don't just have to make yourself a slave to evolution. As I say, you can also categorise it as what it is in many cases, namely toys that belong in closed places or where it can now be.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103105556	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103105557	Yes, but now I have always understood that Enhedslisten perceives itself as a progressive party, and therefore I am surprised that such a message is coming. If you had said so when you invented the steam locomotive and later the car etc., you would not have gone much further than the horse cart and the bull cart. We have to deal with developments. I think it's fine that we get this fence in with some safe rules. I'll leave that to the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103105621	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Henning Hyllested, Enhedslisten, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103105639	Thank you. I would say that I and we were actually positive as a starting point. We may also think that it would be very sensible to have some rules for these small motorized vehicles, but I have to say that the reading of the proposal and of the consultation note and the consultation answers have put me on other thoughts or at least made me uneasy. And that is, in particular, the consultation answer from the Council for Safe Transport, which I consider to be a watchdog for road safety, which has, as it were, caused me to become a little concerned. In general terms, then, the Council finds it difficult to deal with the consequences of the proposal because, as they write, the draft law does not contain any concrete proposals as to how the new rules for small motorized vehicles should be drawn up, and I agree with that very much. Too much has been left to be drawn up under an authorisation clause by the Minister of Transport, and I do not think that is appropriate when there are such major changes in the rules as are here, or new rules for an area with which there is little experience or which is stated in the comments: the introduction of new vehicles in general traffic will mean a significant change in the traffic image. And then I think you should be extra on the marks. That is why I think that the Council's proposal to involve a broad range of professionals and authorities in the drafting of rules for vehicles in the experimental scheme is a good proposal, but it is perhaps just late enough for the experts to get on the ground. In our opinion, we should have started by asking a completely open question: is this at all a good idea? And, of course, the answer had to be based on a thorough risk assessment of the individual vehicles before embarking on just sending them out on the road. But otherwise I also think that the concern is to be felt by the Council. In other words, we are extremely concerned about the much higher speeds that some of these vehicles can travel with in traffic, which they call new dangerous modes of transport and actual toys. And they are primarily led by children and young people. It is also very much the very large differences in speed on the same area that concern the Council for Safe Traffic. It is precisely the surface area of the vulnerable road users that we are talking about here that are bicycle paths, which are pavements, where, of course, many children in the nature of the matter are transporting themselves. The Council announces and then all alarm bells ought to be low even more injured, i.e. also seriously injured, more insecurity and more traffic disputes. I do not think that this is exactly what is needed, and it is actually at a time when we in the Road Safety Commission have identified the vulnerable road users as a special focus area, since it has indeed been shown that pedestrians and cyclists are now over-represented in accident statistics, even a great deal. Contributions collected from Odense University Hospital from what they call the Accident Analysis Group are also very significant. The new devices do not have such predictability or adaptation as is necessary to create a safe environment, they write. The group from Odense University Hospital also points out a very thorough approval procedure and risk analysis as a prerequisite for unleashing these vehicles in traffic. It is also considered to be quite inappropriate. The Council of Safe Traffic is backed by the Danish Cyclist Federation and the Danish Pedestrian Federation, and in particular the Danish Cyclist Federation points out that there is already not too much space on the bike paths, and this is of course primarily in the larger cities. It is also worth noting that the Council points out that the databases of the police, the Road Directorate and the emergency services must be prepared for proper registration if any attempt is to be evaluated at all. And then I would like to ask: are they? Are those databases in place? Have they been upgraded to record accidents with these vehicles? After all, we are already struggling with a number of dark figures in connection with accident registration, and since we are planning to bring these many different vehicles into the existing categories of vehicles, it will be difficult to get proper registration where you can see how or how much these different vehicles are involved in accidents if you do not have proper databases built to register it. It may seem strange that there are no socio-economic calculations of the bill, as it is to be expected that the proposal will lead to more accidents, not least among the vulnerable road users. But maybe it's on purpose that you didn't make it. I think that such a calculation should be made, and I think that we should demand this during the committee procedure. I admit that the consultation note and the comments open up the possibility that some of the vehicles will not have to be approved for traffic in traffic in the area of the Road Traffic Code, but the purpose of the bill is to have vehicles approved for regular traffic. So there I have little confidence that it will apply to quite a lot, if any, of these vehicles. So we are against the bill as a starting point.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103110204	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Nikolaj Amstrup, Alternativet, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103110210	Thank you very much. As the text says, the purpose of this bill is to create a better legal framework for the regulation of a number of smaller motorised vehicles based on new technology, and I am sure we can all agree on that. One thing I have noticed, however, and on which we, as rapporteurs, cannot agree, is the perception of these new flexible modes of transport as toys. I don't think of it as a toy at all. To mention these possible new modes of transport as toys is, in my view, basically to underestimate completely what this technology is in the process of being developed. However, despite my stated veneration for these new technologies, it was not quite easy for me to take a position on the bill, because, as several rapporteurs have said, there are a large number of safety objections from the Council for Safe Traffic, Thinking, the Cyclist League, the Danish Pedestrian Federation, etc. There is no doubt that there is a lot of uncertainty about these new modes of transport and how they are to be implemented in traffic, and it must, of course, be taken seriously and we must follow it closely. But that's what we're gonna be able to do with this bill. I have mentioned several times here from the platform that we need to legislate for the future and not for the past, and I would like to sign for the proposal, because I think it is a very good example of us, as Mr. Rasmus Prehn said, exercising due diligence and actually creating a framework to deal with these new modes of transport, and that is, in my view, the right way to go. Then, as has been mentioned, we must also ensure that an evaluation is carried out and we must ensure that safety equipment, authorisation procedures and so on are followed up. etc. and, as Mr. Henning Hyllested mentioned, get updated the vehicle categories so that it will be possible to get an adequate accident statistics in this area too. Then the crowded bike paths have been mentioned several times. And yes, I see them too, when I am in everyday life in Copenhagen. This is not what I see everyday in the country on South Funen, where I am sure many of these small electric vehicles will be a really, very sensible link from home to public transport. This is also one of the possibilities offered by these small motorized vehicles, because it is a vehicle that can be almost under your arm and that makes the whole way we transport much more flexible. So I look forward to seeing what will be the impact of this and agree with several of the rapporteurs that we should follow the safety part of it very, very closely in committee. So without a doubt: the alternative supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103110542	There's a question. Sir. Henning Hyllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103110545	I fully understand that the alternative is highly technologically enthusiastic. It almost doesn't matter what is put up with by new technology, so the alternative is in place. All right! No problem in that. There are also those here who are opposed to this development or to these various new types of vehicles. But in comparison with the risks they pose, both for other road users, but certainly also for those who drive these vehicles themselves, one can actually ask the question, I think, really: if such vehicles do not belong in some closed installations or in some sports facilities, just as we know it from skateboards and skateboards, and I should give you, should I? It is easy to imagine that many of these vehicles belong in such a place when they present the huge risk, as Mr. Nikolaj Amstrup himself is aware of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103110642	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103110646	I fully agree that there is a risk in relation to these vehicles. However, I also believe that this legislation provides precisely for the possibility of regulating this matter, and I do not agree at all with Mr Beazley. Henning Hyllested in that we must close these flexible modes of transport to closed installations. I think it is an undervaluation of what that technology can be used for. I fully agree that, of course, we need to have a great deal of focus on the security aspect, but we can also use the legislative proposal for that. After all, it is far better, in my view at least, to regulate forward-lookingly and allow for the possibility of making safety authorisations and making rules for safety equipment than just saying: we do not want that development. That's what's gonna happen. The question is whether we want to regulate it wisely or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103110744	Sir. Henning Hyllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103110747	After all, there are many types of vehicles involved here. I can almost understand that, sir. Nikolaj Amstrup, that he does not agree at all with the fact that some of the vehicles are regular toys, and I have to say that when they have the consequences that they can have for road safety, I think it is quite worrying to let such vehicles out in traffic. They are, after all, being led to the fact that they are also toys, to a large extent by children and young people who are not experienced in traffic, and we know from many other places that this is an age group that we must take particular account of and take care of in traffic.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103110837	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103110839	Well, I'm very much in agreement with sir. Henning Hyllested in that of course we must take great care of the children in the traffic. I also believe that the legislative proposal opens up the way for speed control. The legislative proposal here does not mean that we simply approve all types and all speeds, but it means that we can regulate it, and then it may also be true that some of these vehicles do not have to be approved for use in traffic. But we will have to look at that when approval procedures come up.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103110916	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Marianne Jelved from the Radical Left as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103110925	Thank you. Segboards, motorized scooters, motorized skateboards and many other new modes of transport are being used more and more frequently. It goes without saying that road safety for the new modes of transport must also be regulated for the benefit of road safety. The draft law we are discussing now gives the Ministry the opportunity to do so, but it does not mention what rules you want to make, and it is criticised among other things. by the Council for Safe Transport and other relevant organisations wishing to be involved in the work. The Radical Left strongly recommends that the government do so, in other words involve the relevant organisations and listen to them, and we believe that these means of transport should be regulated in the best possible way. That is why we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103111012	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Carl Valentin, SF, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103111018	Thank you. The proposal here is very much needed in many ways. There will be many new vehicles in these years, and people love them, so of course there must also be legislation for them. It is important that we politicians are not backwards. We need to make room for new technology and not be paternal when people want to use new vehicles. People must have the freedom to transport in the way they like best, especially when it does not harm others by destroying our climate or environment. What concerns us in the SF is that the phasing-in of the new vehicles is done in a sensible and safe way, and that is what the upcoming committee process must focus on ensuring. Both the Council for Safe Traffic and the Danish Cyclist Federation and some others have given some consultation answers, which I have been very aware of. Concern is generally expressed about the legalisation of new modes of transport on bicycle paths, sidewalks and roads. I share the concern about road safety. However, I do not believe that it is a solution simply to stop phasing in the new vehicles. Many of them have come to stay, and it is therefore also our task as politicians to provide as roadworthy a model for phasing-in as possible. Fortunately, I am sure the organisations will help to ensure that. In addition, the Danish Cyclist Federation has a point that it can be problematic if there are more vehicles with a high speed difference on the same road area, and of course it should not be legal to drive 60 km/h. on a segway on the bike path. That would be deeply irresponsible. We will therefore, of course, find a sound solution in the committee's work. It is also pointed out that the proposal here has a number of unresolved questions when it comes to safety equipment, limit values and driving licences, etc. I agree with that, and it is also something that the SF will raise with the Minister in committee. In addition, the SF considers it very reasonable that the proposal envisages that in future it will be allowed to roll board, as the draft law so finely mentions. That's crazy, I think, skating at the moment. is criminalised, and we look forward, like the Consumer Council, to hopefully applying the same rules to skatemen as do to people driving roller skates. I note, moreover, that the draft law is intended to authorise the Minister to take a great deal of decisions on his own in the future when it comes to the details of this legislation. We would like to look at how much exactly the Minister should be empowered to do. Indeed, we believe that it is essential that relevant actors and the Folketing are regularly involved in the process. All in all, however, the SF is very positive about the bill and believes that the work now is to ensure that the new vehicles are phased in in as roadworthy a way as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103111304	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Rasmus Jarlov, Conservative, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103111312	Thank you. We are also in favour of the draft law from the conservative side. I think my younger brother and other young people will be pleased that scooters, skateboards and similar modes of transport now have better rules. A lot of people use this kind of transport. It is therefore also important that we take a position on this. At the same time, we must say that they are also so different and constantly changing. There are constantly new types, and so we think it is reasonable that we should do so in such a way that the Minister is given the opportunity to make announcements rather than making legislation that we will probably have to change very often. In relation to skateboards specifically, we also think it is positive that it is now being legalised. Like several other rapporteurs, we of course believe that great consideration must be given to ensuring that there is no chaos on either sidewalks, bicycle paths or lanes. All in all, however, we are positive about the legislative proposal and we look forward to its adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103111430	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Transport, Building and Housing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103111438	Thank you for that, and thank you to the rapporteurs for the constructive reception of the draft law. In 2015, the huge Christmas gift kit among children and young people was the so-called segboard. It turned out, however, that they could not actually legally use the segboard on public roads or on the sidewalk, even though segboards cannot run very fast. The Segboard is an example of the technological development that has been in the field of engine and battery technology in recent years. This means that there have been many new types of small motorized vehicles on the Danish market, which in addition to Segboards include uniwheels, motorized scooters, motorized skateboards and many more. The development of the market has led to more people using and showing interest in driving on these small motorised vehicles. These are quite different vehicles, not all of which are subject to the applicable rules of the Road Traffic Code and therefore cannot be legally applied to the territory of the Road Traffic Code. I believe that there is a need to respond to the interests of the people and to keep up with technological developments in transport, too, in order to create greater mobility for the individual. I believe that there must be more scope for legal use of these new flexible modes of transport. The aim of the draft law is therefore to provide a better framework for the legal regulation of the use of a number of less motorised vehicles in the field of road traffic law. The types of vehicles are still very new in a traffic context, and experience in both Denmark and abroad remains very few. It is therefore the intention of the draft law that vehicles should initially be legalised in experimental schemes which are regulated at the level of regulation. This is a flexible solution which allows adjustments to be made easily as you gain more experience with the area. The experimental arrangements will lay down detailed requirements for the use of the various small motorised vehicles. Among other things, it can be done. provide for the location of vehicles, the setting of speed limits or speed limits, age requirements, helmet requirements and other safety equipment requirements. In determining the detailed requirements of the testing arrangements, due account will, of course, be taken of road safety in order to ensure that the testing arrangements are sound in terms of road safety and do not prejudice the safety of other road users in traffic. In line with my proposal to legalise the small motorised vehicles on an experimental basis, I also propose that the current ban on the use of rollboards be lifted at the same time in the traffic law, or what more modern people call skateboards in the area of traffic law. It should therefore be borne in mind that the Road Traffic Code already has a section 3 and, according to it, road users must exercise consideration and vigilance so that no danger, injury or disadvantage arises for others. This means that if on a skateboard on a sidewalk you have drove furiously to danger others who walk on the sidewalk, then it is a criminal offence and you can be punished for it. It is just as if you arrange 100-metre prints on the sidewalk and there are old ladies who go there with the walker; then it is also illegal because you behave irresponsiblely. There is no mention in any law that 100-metre running is not to be arranged on the sidewalk. However, if you do so in a way that is a nuisance to other road users and a danger to other road users, then it is actually illegal. Therefore, we can also go into this with skateboards in the same way as we have done it with roller skates and say: you can do it as long as you do it properly and if you don't do it properly, you can be punished. Because that's not what Mr. Henning Hyllested came to say on a question that because I am liberal, then I will allow all sorts of things on the road. When I'm a liberal, it's all about me thinking that people should be allowed to do whatever they want on their private precepts, as long as they don't hurt anyone else. But as soon as you get into traffic, I am in favour of common rules. I am in favour of speed limits, I am in favour of imposing fines if you drive too fast, I am in favour of being punished if you drive irresponsibly and against the rules of the law because you are out in common areas. That's not true, as Mr. Henning Hyllested says that because I am a liberal, I am in favour of anarchy on the roads. I certainly do not, and neither do I in this case. But we need to be open to new modes of transport that may be useful, and I think that Mr. Nikolaj Amstrup said it very rightly when he said that some of these modes of transport do mean that you can take your electric segboard, uniwheel, or whatever it may be, to the nearest public transport, and, contrary to the bicycle, you can take it under your arm and get on your bus without it being a problem for the others on the bus. That's a really good idea if you can do something like that. It may well be that it leads to a less need to move through the city by car or by moped or by bicycle. There may be all kinds of positive aspects to this, and that is why we cannot, as Mr. Henning Hyllested says that now we have invented all the modes of transport that can be useful to us, and then we can simply put a stop block down for everything that will come in the future. Do we not have enough modes of transport? Mr. Henning Hyllested. Yeah, but we don't know that. Perhaps we do, but it may well be that some of the things that are invented are actually really useful, and that is why we have to deal with it. However, I fully agree with the rapporteurs when they say that there must be hand in hand with this, which is why we are talking about experimental schemes and the experimental schemes must be evaluated. It can just be a little difficult to say when we have had enough experience with a means of transport. Because if there are only five of them in the country, do we have enough experience after 2 years or 3 years, so that we can say that it is after 2 or 3 years that we evaluate it? But I would very much like to talk to the committee about this: what is needed to ensure that all parties supporting this in principle also feel confident that in practice it is handled properly by the Transport Minister who is currently in office? But in general terms I would say that although a transport minister is given a right to decide things, I know from my own experience that there is still some concern about determining things that are not certain there is support for by a majority in the Folketing. I wonder if there will be a dialogue in any case. In any case, in the work on this bill, I would like to ensure that we have the dialogue that makes those parties who in principle like it here feel in practice that it is also properly formulated in the law, which hopefully will be adopted in the end. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103112218	There's a question from sir. Henning Hyllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103112222	I just want to start by correcting a misunderstanding. In fact, it was not I who referred to the Minister's liberal background that I could never dream of, in other words, using such an ideological argument. I am very specific about the legislative proposal that has been presented. I think it was sir. Rasmus Prehn, who referred to the Minister's liberal background. But don't worry about it, it doesn't matter. I would fear for some of what the Minister says about the general rule of the Road Traffic Code, that is to say that road traffic must be taken into account. It is, of course, a proper framework provision, you might say, and if we just all did so, it was not necessary to have a traffic law nearer to it. So taking it on oaths compared to this, I might think it's a little violent. I am also doing so because these are modes of transport which are seriously dangerous. This is the way they are being cut out, or at least that is how they are pointed out by, for example. Council for Safe Traffic. Well, I fully agree with, and do not think we can say that we have now invented all the means of transport that can be invented, but I think that we can now make the demands on the so-called means of transport, which also have the character of toys for some, that they are not in fact a danger both to other road users, but also to those who drive such a vehicle. That is kind of what I am concerned with, and I am certainly in doubt about the vehicles we are talking about here.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103112352	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103112355	I'm sorry I came to assign Mr. Henning Hyllested the view that because I am liberal, I am willing to allow anything. That's so, sir. Rasmus Prehn is probably right now that I'm being reminded of it. Well, listen, sir. Henning Hyllested cannot mention a single means of transport which is not dangerous. A bike is also dangerous, a car is dangerous, a moped is dangerous, a motorcycle is dangerous. All modes of transport are dangerous. Because when you move at a certain speed, there is an opportunity to collide with others, and then a dangerous situation arises. That is why I do not think it is a good argument that because some of these modes of transport also present a certain danger in themselves, we should just put a stop-block down and say that we should not have more modes of transport in Denmark now. With regard to section 3 of the Road Traffic Code, which requires the road user to be vigilant and not to put others at unnecessary risk, it is a good provision in these cases, where we just have to say that we do not want a ban on, for example, the fact that the road traffic user is not in a position to do so. running sprint on the sidewalk, but we want people, when they run sprint on the sidewalk, to do so with caution. The same is true with a skateboard. In fact, we do not want skateboarding to be banned on sidewalks, but we want them to be used with care and with regard to other road users, just as when you are on roller skates, or just like when you are on foot and running really fast. I think it's pretty well covered up with this.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103112524	Sir. Henning Hyllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103112528	It can also be said that life at all is dangerous and it is dangerous to breathe gradually. So, yeah, that's right. My appeal is, of course, that when you can now anticipate or at least some predict, and I stick to them so that it leads to more accidents among the weak road users, and this is the focus of the Road Safety Commission in which I myself am sitting, then what I'm thinking is: Ah, maybe it's not exactly these modes of transport that you just have to let loose in ordinary traffic. It appears from the consultation note that there is a positive response to the Council on Safe Transport's proposal to set up this group of experts. I mentioned this in my rapporteur's speech. I mean, it's a little late, you might say, but better late than never. Is it an intention that this group of experts will be set up and when will it possibly come, so that, if I may say so, we can have such a group of experts on the sidelines during the work of the committee, perhaps so quickly?
ParlaMint-DK_20171103112629	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103112632	I do not think we can have such a group of experts set up for committee work, but if it turns out during committee work that this is one of the steps the parties want to take in order to follow developments, then we must see if we can do so in the time after the law is to be applied and administered and so on.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103112651	Then we'll thank the Minister for Transport. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Transport, Building and Housing Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103112715	The debate is open. And the first rapporteur is Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103112725	Thank you for that, President. Today we have to deal with Bill L 30, which is intended to prevent the manipulation of vehicle pollution control equipment. When that happens, it is bad for the environment and it undermines the competitiveness of legal road hauliers, which is why we must, of course, put an end to it and ensure that the police have the right tools to take action against this type of crime. The fight against air pollution is important for the Social Democratic Party. In the end, it is about human life. Air pollution is Denmark's absolutely greatest environmental problem if we look at public health. Air pollution, particularly in large cities, costs far too many premature deaths every year, and that is why we must put an end to it. If we compare with our Swedish and Norwegian neighbours, we are more exposed to harmful particles. In fact, Denmark has exceeded the European limit values for nitrogen dioxide every year since 2010. So, with the air pollution problems mentioned above in mind, it is, of course, totally unacceptable that at the same time we should see major problems with the fussing of vehicle pollution control equipment. Nine out of 23 controlled foreign trucks, which were tested at the Danish-German border in Padborg in June, were exposed in fraud with these so-called AdBlue plants that filter the pollutant NOx gas from the truck exhaust. Trucks can save about DKK 10,000-20,000 at cheating. a year, and as things stand today, an infringement is associated with a fine of DKK 1,000. This, of course, brings with it a situation in which the lawbreakers are given a completely unacceptable business, and we must, of course, have taken action against that. That is why the Social Democratic Party supports the bill. In the consultation answers, it is difficult to see whether sanctions can be applied to foreign drivers, and we must, of course, make sure that they can, as there is much evidence that it is Eastern European drivers and road hauliers who are committing these offences. The Social Democratic Party also wants to ensure, during the committee procedure, that drivers can only be punished for the infringement if they are aware that the truck's pollution control equipment is manipulated. Of course, we must make sure of that. With those comments, I can say that the Social Democratic Party supports the bill. We must put an end to fraud on the Danish roads, and we must do so for the sake of Danish competitiveness, and we must do so for the sake of the desire to create better air quality in Denmark. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103113014	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr Seligman. Kim Christiansen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103113023	Thank you. We also welcome from the Danish People's Party, of course, the fact that the level of fines is now considerably increased for this cheating. There is the whole environmental aspect, and when Denmark is particularly high on that part, it is perhaps because we have a particularly high concentration of foreign Eastern European cars in Denmark, and we must not hang out certain groups, but I think police controls show that there is a great over-representation in relation to this cheating among foreign cars. The Socialist rapporteur could then be a little concerned about the sanctions, and I actually take a little kiss hand, because I hope that in here we may be able to help tighten things up a little with how we get the money in from foreigners, and that is where I am talking, of course, about the use of road train clamping. Nowadays, we can hold back the puller, but then someone else will come and get the trailer. I hope that we may also be able to extend that part of the sanctions a little, so that we also ensure that payments are made. It is not enough to write out large fines, because if we do not get the money in the box, it does not really matter. So we're really positive about this. It is cheating on the scales, just as if you don't want to pay your VAT or anything else, that you get a competitive advantage in that account. That is why we in the Danish People's Party are, of course, very positive about curbing this fraud.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103113206	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. We shall move on to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103113217	Thank you for that, President. In the light of the wide-ranging circumvention of the rules on cleaning exhausts from Eastern European lorries in Denmark in particular, I would like to call on the Minister to ensure that sanctions in this area are rapidly and significantly tightened up. The current fine of DKK 1,000. is far too small and does not measure up to the environmental damage and economic benefits of those who gain competitive advantages over law-abiding road hauliers. Quote out. This is how I wrote in an e-mail to the Minister on 27 April this year, and I would like to express my warm appreciation and praise to the Minister for the fact that we are now, in fact, fast in Danish politics, standing here with a bill dealing with the problem. Of course, the Left doesn't have a patent on this case. I know that other parties are also concerned that this will be resolved. It is not acceptable for the environment to be burdened in this way by deliberately cheating on the exhaust emissions of trucks and other vehicles in order to save money. This is totally unacceptable from an environmental point of view. But it is also unacceptable from a professional point of view. It is a direct distortion of competition when some road hauliers save costs because they do not use the means to reduce exhaust pollution. So it's really good that we have this bill now. I proposed to the Minister a tenfold increase in the level of fines, because it must be the case that cheating is not worthwhile. The hammer has to fall hard, and it's the sledgehammer that has to fall when you deliberately cheat with this, just like when you, for example. consciously cheats on putting a magnet on the gearbox to put riding-rest-time rules out of play. The hammer must fall crushingly hard, and that is exactly what we are ensuring with this bill, where the level of fines is being significantly increased, and I very much welcome that. It will also be possible for the police to detain vehicles, both Danish and foreign, which have had some illegal changes to the pollution control equipment. So all in all, a good bill. Finally, I would like to say that it is also important that we have the opportunity to discover the cheating that is taking place. This is after all on the basis of the fact that many cheats have been discovered, but it is my impression that there are a lot of trucks out there that are not being checked. And there I had yesterday the pleasure in Schleswig-Holstein north of Kiel to stand on the highway together with BAG it is a German road control unit called Bundesamt für Güterverkehr. We were standing there, and one truck was waved in after another. It was a pleasure to see how they worked. I am just saying in Danish: So ein Ding müssen wir auch haben, because it works. That is the task of the police today. I have great respect for the Danish police. I also have great respect for those in the heavy duty truck control unit. The problem is just that we all know that the Danish police are completely burdened with tasks. There are shootings in the street, gang crime and a lot of other very high priority tasks, and then it's a cheap round when some say: Well, this just needs the police to control something better. It's not gonna last. That is why I strongly support the fact that we are starting work on a Danish version of the German BAG, a civilian control corps under the Danish Trade Authority, which can really do some effective roadside checks and which can increase the possibility of stopping these vehicles. It's not just the environment. It's one of them. These are cabotage rules, and that is the condition of the vehicle: the brakes work, etc., it is driving-rest time, it is whether they have paid their tolls, etc. That is why I have urged the Minister to join with other parties in talking about whether we should not have such a Danish version of BAG, so that we can strengthen road safety, we will strengthen the environment, we will have fair competition on the Danish roads and, above all, we will have relief from Danish police. Actually, I think they'll be happy about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103113631	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we go to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Henning Hyllested. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103113641	Thank you. The Enhedslisten absolutely supports this bill to increase the penalty considerably in order to manipulate the pollution control equipment of trucks, including vans. As the comments show, it is obviously a growing problem that we have been faced with here. When the police in Denmark in 25%. of the cases find manipulation of the pollution control equipment when found by the Norwegians in 70%. In the case of cases, and when some checks in Germany have found it in 20%. In the case of cases, it is time to take action; then something has to happen. There are two sides to this. There is money to be saved, and that is to say, to impose unfair competition on the proper road hauliers, thereby increasing the impact of our climate and thereby reinforcing the threat of climate disaster, which seems to be closer than we really want to be. And it affects our local environment there I would refer to the draft law's comments on page 7 on the environmental impact assessment, pointing out the health and environmental importance of manipulating the equipment to limit the discharge of particles and CO2 thus it can be seen that if 25 per cent. of the trucks and that's what was found at the check in Denmark... all over Europe manipulates the CSR system, so that means 7,500 premature deaths in Europe. As far as Denmark is concerned, according to a calculation made, 70 premature deaths could have been avoided. So it simply costs unnecessary deaths that this happens when hauliers turn off pollution control, and this is actually a crime. This problem is linked to the other problems of unfair competition that exist in European road transport: infringement of driving time, illegal cabotage and, in any case, cabotage, which has been put in place in breach of the law, fraud with driver cards, which are also the fault of Danish hauliers and drivers, etc. etc. So we now know the problems. It is deliberate cheating and, as the comments also state, it is a particularly aggravating circumstance. And it helps to destroy the Danish trucker's profession and turn the Danish driver into a dying race. You can always argue about a fine of DKK 15,000. in first cases is enough, but at least in the Enhedslisten we think that in repeat cases the rate of increase is equally weak enough. When you have to break six times before there is a fine of 50,000 kroner, we may think it's a little too long-suffering to be. After all, this is deliberate cheating and manipulation, so it can be said that the principle of proportionality can hardly be violated in this context. In any case, the Enhedslisten is in favour of very severe penalties for infringements of laws and regulations, including EU regulations and directives, in road transport. And we do, because the profession is characterized by too many bandits, that is. This is why we are calling on the Commission and the Council to take the necessary steps to ensure that this directive is implemented in all the Member States and in all the Member States of the European Union. We are also warm supporters of giving the police the opportunity to detain the vehicle and not only, until a fine is paid or a fine is guaranteed, but also until the engine and the AdBlue system have actually been put in order; we think it is very fine, although we still think that in cases where the police are holding a vehicle there should also be an opportunity to detain the whole wagon train, which we have continually made ourselves the spokesmen of the journey so that transport buyers are also made aware that they must make sure that they use a proper and law-abiding carrier, whether this is about the manipulation of the engine or cabotage and the violation of the driving rest time. All in all, however, it is a very good proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103114046	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur of the alternative, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Nikolaj Amstrup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103114054	Thank you very much. As has been said, the aim of the draft law is to tighten the penalties for illegal constructive changes in engines and pollution control equipment. The pollution of the transport sector is violent also in Denmark, and it can be difficult to control, and it has severe health consequences. That is why, of course, we need to be able to rely on the fact that the pollution control measures that have been decided and which can be taken at all in the transport sector are not being manipulated. I have mentioned several times here from the platform that in the alternative we are not immediately in favour of simply increasing sanctions, but here I would very much like to make an exception. When the fines are so small that they are merely seen as an everyday cost for road hauliers manipulating pollution control measures, that is simply not enough. So we would very much like to make an exception and support the increase in the fine here, because it is important that we can rely on compliance with the pollution control measures as well. So the alternative definitely supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103114214	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. We move on to the Radical Left rapporteur, and that is Mrs Marianne Jelved. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103114223	The Radical Left is very pleased with the draft law we are discussing here, L 30. The police have investigated and assessed that one in four heavy vehicles is breaking the rules in terms of environmental and climate regulations, and that is not acceptable. Today, the fine is only DKK 1,000, which is far below the level of fines we are used to in the environmental field. The bill here raises it to 5,000 kroner. for the driver and DKK 15,000. for the owner. The Radical Left warmly supports this.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103114253	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. We move on to the SF's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Carl Valentin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103114302	Thank you. The bill will increase the fines to manipulate the pollution control equipment. The SF can generally support the proposal, which is moving in the right direction. Today there is a fine of 1,000 kroner. to violate the law, and this is proposed to raise to DKK 15,000 respectively. for cars over 3.5 tonnes in first-time cases and 5.000 DKK. for cars less than 3,5 tonnes. In addition, the police must be able to detain vehicles that have been manipulated. SF believes this is common sense. The current low fine of DKK 1,000. Simply does not compensate for the economic incentive to manipulate pollution control equipment, and the environment suffers. One thing I have to say a little about the draft law is that it is proposed that a driver using an engine-driven vehicle, even if he knew or ought to know that an illegal change had been made to the vehicle's engine or pollution control equipment, would also be subject to a fine. I am a little concerned that the provision will punish drivers who are just doing their job, but I think we can discuss that in committee. In general, SF is really positive about this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103114410	Thank you. There are just a few brief comments, so I would just like to ask the rapporteur to stay. That's very nice. And the first one is for mr. Nikolai Amstrup. Here you go. No, I'm sorry). It was a mistake. He's gonna drop out. Then it's mr. Henning Hylllested. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103114428	That was the last comment made by the rapporteur, namely the question of the driver and the imposition of a penalty on the driver. Does the rapporteur think that it may be possible for a driver to be unaware that his trucker has tampered with the engine, if I may say so? And if the rapporteur does not respond in the negative, is it not reasonable to impose a fine on the driver as well?
ParlaMint-DK_20171103114501	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103114505	I find it difficult to imagine a situation where the driver is not aware that it has been tampered with. On the other hand, I can imagine situations where you may feel pressured to do your job anyway, even though it has been tampered with. And it's just really important to us that there aren't some people out there who are actually just doing their job and risking a punishment for this. It may well be that the draft law as it stands is sensible enough. It was just something that I tripped on and that I think we should look at in committee. Because nobody needs to be punished for doing their job.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103114532	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103114535	I fully agree with that. And there is no doubt about that, too, I fully agree with the fact that there are drivers who feel pressured. But they can do so in many ways, that is, it can have many consequences. This may also apply in relation to the condition of the vehicle at all, and it may be in relation to bad brakes, and what do I know? Does the rapporteur not think that, after all, a little civil courage must be demanded from those drivers who are well aware that the vehicle they are driving around is either manipulated or has bad brakes, or whatever might be in the way of it?
ParlaMint-DK_20171103114607	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103114610	Yeah, I certainly think you can. But the primary responsibility in this respect must be with the employer. And that is important to us, so I think we should discuss this here.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103114620	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then we move on to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr Conservatives. Rasmus Jarlov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103114630	We can also support the bill. It seems like very low fines that are currently being imposed, and if we are to create a certain similarity in our fines in relation to various offences, this is very low compared to other similar offences, and that is why we support the raising of tariffs. In relation to the last discussion that was here between Mr. Carl Valentin and Mr. Henning Hyllested, I find it hard to see why drivers should have an interest in changing vehicles in a way that makes them less environmentally friendly. Well, we often have the discussion when it comes to driving-rest-time registration and speed limits, and you might imagine that there are some drivers who are being pressured to take part in manipulating the equipment to some extent themselves, so that they can earn more money so that they can drive longer and so that they can take some longer shifts and thus have a greater profit. In relation to environmental equipment, I find it difficult to see that there should be the same incentives for drivers, which is why I believe that it should primarily be the road hauliers who are hit on the wallet. It must be those who, like those who are responsible for and overseeing that the environmental equipment on the vehicle is in order.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103114816	Thank you for that, thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then we give the floor to the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103114824	Thank you to the rapporteurs for the positive reception of the draft law. I am pleased to hear that so many people are prepared to make an effort to put an end to the widespread cheating of vehicle pollution control equipment. Police controls both in Denmark and abroad indicate that the spread of manipulation is quite extensive. The increased pollution caused by manipulation is extremely harmful to both the environment and health. It's just that I'm gonna use a little strong words here... just some mess. Manipulation with vehicle pollution control equipment is currently punishable by a fine of DKK 1,000. I think that is far too little in relation to the harmful effects it has on health. In addition, there may be major economic benefits in manipulating a vehicle's pollution control equipment. The current level of fines is therefore also not proportional to the economic benefits obtained by manipulating the pollution control equipment. In other words, the level of fines does not have a sufficiently effective and dissuasive effect. The aim of the draft law is therefore to tighten the penalty for tampering with the pollution control equipment of motor vehicles. It must be tightened to such an extent that cheating on equipment is not worthwhile, but so it is clear to everyone that this kind of harmful behaviour will not be tolerated. According to the guidelines of the bill, the fine for heavy vehicles such as bus and truck is increased from DKK 1,000. for 15,000 kroner. for the owner in first-time cases. Then add 10,000 kroner. extra for every extra violation you make. It is in line with the level of fines for infringement of the rules on environmental zones. For light vehicles such as car and van, the bill's guidelines impose a fine of DKK 5,000 on the owner. in first-time cases. Then add 2,500 DKK. On each additional violation. The draft law also provides that a driver, and not only the owner, may also be fined if the driver uses an engine-driven vehicle, even if the driver knew or should know that the pollution control equipment had been tampered with. In these cases, the fine will be DKK 5,000. in the first case to the driver of heavy duty vehicles and DKK 2,500; to the driver of light vehicles. Of course, it should not be the case that a driver should be penalised if there is no possibility of discovering or investigating whether the vehicle's pollution control equipment has been tampered with. The same applies to an owner who, for example: has bought a used car where it can be impossible to determine whether it has been manipulated unless one is a mechanic or has the same equipment and knowledge as a visual auditor. The rules of the bill do not mean that a driver or owner can be punished in the cases in question, but the bill means that a driver can be punished if the driver knew or ought to know that he had been manipulated. I think that is quite reasonable. Effective enforcement measures for the police are important when we talk about limiting the level of manipulation of pollution control equipment. The draft law therefore contains rules which ensure that in all cases the police have the possibility to withhold vehicles if the pollution control equipment is tampered with, whether the vehicle or the driver is Danish or from abroad. I look forward to further consideration here in the Folketing, and I am of course available to answer any questions that may arise in this regard. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103115209	Thank you. At first sight, I have no one standing for brief remarks. There's a flag coming from Mr. Knox. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen as rapporteur for a second round. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103115227	Thank you. I take the floor briefly, because I forgot one thing during the first round, namely that I should greet the Liberal Alliance and say that they also support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103115236	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Transport, Building and Housing Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171103115253	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 7 November 2017, at 3 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
