ParlaMint-DK_20170224100010	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Defence (Claus Hjort Frederiksen): Bill no. L 146 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Defence Intelligence (FE) and the Customs Code. Nicolai Wammen (S), Kristian Thulesen Dahl (DF), Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen (V), Pernille Skipper (EL), Christina Egelund (LA), Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT), Morten Østergaard (RV), Pia Olsen Dyhr (SF) and Nase Khader (KF): Request no. F 45 (What can the government say about developments in the transatlantic relationship in the light of the new US administration? ) Titles on the cases notified will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20170224100110	Are there any objections to the promotion of these requests? I consider the consent of the matter to be given. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224100229	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 28 February 2017. We are going into the debate, and it is first the rapporteur for the questions put by Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democrat, for reasons of justification. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224100256	In 2016, there were 31.885 break-ins in Denmark, and even though it is a fall and it's good, Denmark still has a second place in Europe in terms of number of break-ins. Too many Danes experience criminals gaining access to their homes. Too many people are experiencing the huge abuse that it is and that the insecurity associated with burglary comes in. One break-in is, and remains, too much, and that is why we have called this request debate today. We have a political responsibility to ensure that the fall in the number of break-ins continues and that far fewer Danes thus experience the great discomfort associated with burglar crime. When you look at how many break-ins are solved, there is no reason to be particularly happy. Last year, charges were filed in just 2.082 cases of forced entry. It's low, too low, because I remind you that the number of break-ins was 31.885. That is why we have a political challenge here in the Danish Parliament, and that is why the Minister has been called for this question debate; a question debate that hopefully brings initiatives that can seriously bring Denmark to the ranks when it comes to the burglary league. I look forward to this debate and thank the Minister for coming forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224100441	Thank you. Then we give the floor for an answer, and that is with the Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224100448	Thank you. In the question, I would ask you, as Minister of Justice, to explain what initiatives the government will take to ensure a continued reduction in the number of break-ins, including when I intend to launch new initiatives. The authors of the question are dealing with a subject which is of personal concern to me and which is of great concern to the government. It's about security, in this case, whether you can feel safe in your own home. Security is something that is absolutely fundamental to the well-being of the individual. We need to focus on preserving the safe and free Denmark that we know. The government wants a freer, richer and more secure Denmark. It is therefore also a clear objective of the government's legal policy that Denmark should be a safe and secure country where we can all move freely. This applies both inside and outside the home, but the very home is the place where you should feel the most secure. This is where you can close the door behind you and relax. That is why burglary is also so much coarser than, for example, burglary. Bike theft or pickpocket. A break-in in your home is a very offensive crime that can put deep marks on the victims. It is not only about burglars taking away objects that may never be replaced, but it is about the continuing insecurity created by a break-in, not least when the break-in occurs while there has been someone at home. Security is something that can never be replaced by home insurance. As the authors of the questions have also said, we have fortunately seen a general reduction in the number of burglar reports, and we should welcome this. In fact, since 2011 the number of burglary notifications in private homes has generally been decreasing and the number of burglary notifications in 2016 was at the lowest level in the period 2007-2016. As I said, it is gratifying, but it is not good enough. We must continue to work to ensure that good developments continue. In other words, we must continue to work to see even fewer reports of forced entry in the future and even fewer reports, because there are even fewer break-ins, of course. Earlier this week, I have published three further measures, on top of what we do, to strengthen the fight against burglary. Firstly, a completely new burglary clause is inserted into the penal code. Secondly, there must be a punishment for burglary committed while someone is at home. Thirdly, these two initiatives must be supported by a special focus from the police on burglary and on travelling criminals. I will briefly outline these three measures and a number of other initiatives that have already been taken in this area. I am going to put forward a bill in the next parliamentary assembly inserting a new independent burglary clause into the penal code. In this way it becomes clear that burglary is something quite different from, for example. a bike theft or a simple pickpocket. It is offensive and destructive to be subjected to burglary, and the penal code must reflect this. Despite the decline in the number of burglars, it is still happening that burglars break into a home where there is someone at home. I can hardly imagine anything more unpleasant. I can't believe waking up at night and hearing somebody peeking around in the living room, and I guess it's not feeling either the dog or the kids peeking around. We therefore want to hit harder on criminals who deliberately choose to burglary while there is someone at home. That is why I am proposing a penalty cut, so that we add one third to the penalty. In this way, we will send a clear signal to the burglars about how seriously we are looking at this type of crime. Breaking and entering is, and must remain, a priority area for the police. The National Police are therefore preparing a strategy to combat forced entry into private homes. The aim of the strategy is to further reduce the number of break-ins in private homes and to clarify more cases of break-ins. At the same time, we must also take action against the travelling criminals who speculate about going to Denmark to commit crime and create insecurity. The National Police are also currently drawing up a strategy for action against travelling criminal groups. The aim of the strategy is to reduce the extent of their crime, including burglar crime. Following this, I can inform you that on 1 January 2017 two new special investigation communities have been established, in eastern and western Denmark: Special Investigation East and Special Investigation West. These units will be an effective tool for dealing with particularly complex and cross-border crime in the future. It can, for example, be done. be organised burglar crime. In addition, the National Police plan to establish a short training on burglary prevention to ensure that selected police officers are able to provide citizens with security guidance to prevent burglary. The National Police are also involved in cooperation with, among others: auction houses in the fight against heels, just as the National Police are involved in several collaborations with the Crime Prevention Council. This applies, among other things, to: The Council's heeling campaign launched in January 2017. In addition, the police also offer so-called return visits to citizens who have been subjected to more than one break-in in a year. The purpose of these return visits is to guide citizens on technical and tactical protection of the accommodation. Finally, the country's police circles are also continuously implementing local initiatives of different types. Finally, I can inform you that the prosecution has a strong focus on burglary cases. The attorney general has among other things: designated the burglary area as a prosecutorial focus area for 2017 and thus as an area to be followed particularly closely. This means, among other things, that the prosecution assesses whether the penalty levels in the various burglary cases are appropriate and in accordance with what is provided. I should therefore very much have liked to have made things clear and given a clear answer to the question. This government is committed to ensuring a continued reduction in the number of break-ins. With these three measures I have mentioned, namely a completely new burglary clause in the penal code, a punishment for burglary committed while there is someone at home, and a special focus from the police on burglary and on travelling criminals, yes, it is my ambition that we ensure the Danes even better against burglary in the future. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224101136	I would like to thank the Minister of Justice for his reply. We shall now proceed to the debate. The first rapporteur is the rapporteur for the questioners, and that is Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democrat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224101156	Too many Danes are being robbed. It is a huge insult when intruders have been visiting your home, when they have messed around in your private possessions, and when they have stolen valuables, often with an invaluable affection value. That is why political initiatives are needed to ensure that fewer Danes are exposed to this insulting experience, and it is necessary to use the tools that we know work. Punishment is one tool. We in the Social Democratic Party recognise this, and that is why we do not deny that punishment is an element, and that also applies to increased punishment. However, we would like to look at the punishment of all parameters when it comes to breaking and entering, and not just breaking and entering where people are at home. But when less than 7%... of all break-ins, as it is today, we have to say that punishment has an extremely limited effect and can therefore be punished alone. We also need to look at the tools available to the police to investigate burglary and, above all, we need to look at prevention. As I said, it's under 7%. of all break-ins that are solved as it is today, and that is why, unfortunately, much points out that it is a little too risk-free to be a burglar. That is why the call from the Social Democratic Party is that we look at police methods and tools in the investigation effort. In recent years, a number of new technologies have been put on the market. Of course, we must ensure that the police have access to the best of the new technologies, so that the investigation work can slip more smoothly and that there is more coherence between the cases. In addition, we know that task forces are very useful in achieving good results, and that is why we should look at the experience of the task force that was set up a few years ago and spread the experience to the whole country not only to those areas where the task forces act. Not least, there is a great need to keep a better eye on foreign criminals. Enhanced cooperation with the countries around us is one element, but new technology in the border area can also be a very good way of spotting foreigners with criminal intent. A few years ago, we started an experiment with license plate scanners. On the part of the Social Democrats, we are in no way opposed to looking at new technologies that can strengthen the surveillance of the criminal aliens in the border area. It must certainly be preferable, even if we are talking about punishment and investigation, that the Danes do not experience a break-in in their homes at all. I hope we can all agree on that here. Not least, it is extremely resource-saving for our hard-pressed police when we engage in prevention and thus do not get the same number of break-ins as we have had so far. That is why we in the Social Democratic Party want to copy the solutions that have worked effectively in, among other things. The Netherlands and England, namely to make very basic requirements in the building regulations for the types of doors and windows to be used for new construction and for large renovations. In this way, it is possible to reduce the number of break-ins with greater speed. In addition, all studies of the solutions show that there is virtually no additional cost of using the theft-proof solutions, not least because experience shows that the market is merely geared to it. A few years ago, we started trials on doors and windows in Denmark. The results were clearly positive: fewer break-ins. At the same time, all experts point to one area in order to limit the number of break-ins, and that is precisely prevention. In addition to better security of doors and windows, neighboring assistance is also an effective method. There is really good reason to commend the Crime Prevention Council for its efforts in this area. All evaluations of the scheme indicate that there are good results, which is why it is also interesting to discuss politically whether we can raise neighbouring aid to a new level. Technology has been developed to make neighbouring aid even stronger and even more effective, and we should, of course, discuss it here in the Folketing, knowing that it has a very great effect. It remains to be seen that, from a political point of view, we can do much more to limit the number of break-ins and to ensure better clarification and appropriate punishment for the perpetrators. Therefore, our call to the Minister of Justice is to call for discussions on a new burglary package during this parliamentary year. Then together we can cause the number of break-ins to decrease further. In those words I shall read out the following proposals for adoption from S and SF, and it says: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the number of break-ins in Denmark is still among the highest in Europe. A break-in is too much. Therefore, in the current parliamentary year, the Minister of Justice is required to call for negotiations on a new burglary package to ensure a continued decrease in the number of break-ins in Denmark through higher penalties, better detection tools and reinforced prevention. • V 45).
ParlaMint-DK_20170224101800	Thank you. The proposed adoption will be included in the further negotiations. There is one brief comment, and it is from Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224101808	Thank you. And thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I just have one question, and that goes to what the Socialist rapporteur said about border surveillance. The rapporteur said, and this is an attempt to quote, that the Social Democratic Party is under no circumstances opposed to further surveillance in the border areas. I assume that it is ANPG monitoring, as the rapporteur has said. However, one thing is not to be dismissive of it; another is whether you want to actively work for it, so I would like to know whether the Social Democrats will actively work to ensure that we roll out even more monitoring of our border areas and ensure an even stronger permanentisation of border control.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224101850	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224101852	It was under the leadership of the Social Democratic Government that we started the tests with license plate scanners, and the results have also proved to be good in this area, not least when you can combine it with the license plate scanners on the police cars, and therefore you get a more complete picture. That is also why our call for the Minister of Justice to call for negotiations on this is so clear, because it is precisely at a negotiating table that we can get through the initiatives that actually work, and one of the things that we think has an effect on foreign criminals is, among other things, one of them. license plate scanners.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224101926	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224101928	It's just very short. I am pleased with the statement, but with regard to what the rapporteur says about ANPG scanners at border crossings, I would like to ask whether they are permanent ANPG scanners. Is that what the Socialists will be able to support and actively work for?
ParlaMint-DK_20170224101945	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224101946	Yes, we believe it makes sense to use license plate scanners in many types of crime, both around the streets, but also in the border area. It also has a positive effect on cabotage. That is why we have been open to it for a long time and still are, but of course it requires that a majority can be found here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224102009	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line to the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. It's sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224102028	The number of break-ins has been very, very high in Denmark for many years. Denmark, if you are to believe the accounts, should be the country in Europe where the second largest number of break-ins are committed, only surpassed by Greece. It's a sad, boring silver medal to have. If we are to enjoy something, we should welcome the fact that the number of break-ins is falling after all • that, after all, it is going in the right direction, and that is good. For every break-in of one break-in too much. It is totally cross-border if strangers wander around your home, the most personal, safe, private place you might have. A good acquaintance of me, who had recently himself had a break-in, told me that the actual break-in was one thing, but that the feeling of it was something else, that others had gone around in one's home and turned the most private, personal things in the pursuit of values, felt in fact as if it were a very, very great abuse that had been committed. It's starting deep emotions. And that is why it is important that we stay on track in this debate, namely that we continue with the developments we are experiencing and that the number of break-ins must of course be brought down further. So what can we do? Well, first of all, we can look at the punishment for breaking and entering. We're gonna have to push that up. You have to have a proper spanking as a punishment for turning people's homes, it has to bear something to commit a break-in. That is why we need to look at the law in order to sharpen the penalties in this area. Secondly, we need to put a stick in the wheel on the extensive heeling that is taking place in Denmark. I can therefore also send a friendly thought to the Crime Prevention Council, which is currently working on a major information campaign to get the Danes to be awake about what they, among other things, are doing. Buying on the Internet can be stolen. Because if we first put a stick in the wheel on the outlets for stolen goods, well, then we also have a good opportunity to put a stick in the wheel for the theft itself and the burglary itself. Then, of course, there are also goods which are sold outside the country's borders. Our proposal is that more should be done in the near future with regard to border controls, border controls, for example. ANPG scanners that have shown a really sensible effect. When we still have people at the border who are investigating people on their way in, the obvious thing will of course also be that we increased focus when people are on their way out. It is our opinion that such control will be an effective tool in order to stop some of the travelling criminal aliens who, among other things, are. commit burglary crime in Denmark. Then we need to focus more on making the police stronger over the next many years. A key part of the fight against crime is that we have enough police, and we do not have that at the moment. We need cops, we need them trained quickly. We in the Danish People's Party have openly played out and made it clear that our goal is 2,000 extra officers over the coming years. With the police settlement in 2015, we just took the first step: an extra police force, increased take-up, more resources for the police. We're a long way from the target, but we're on our way. Then we need to be better at solving the burglaries that are actually being committed in Denmark. Just a few percent of the break-ins in Denmark are solved, and in this connection I will bring up that when we get inquiries from people who have been burgled, there are often some of them who have excellent camera material, so they have been able to film the person (s) who have emptied their house of values. Yet these images are never published by the authorities. Of course, that makes people not only angry, but also desperate. For why on earth should you have good pictures of a thief who has been inside your house and has emptied it, if you cannot subsequently be allowed to publish them or if the authorities do not publish them. Then it has no effect. We must, of course, make sure that these images are made public. This increases the risk for criminals, as they risk getting the face wanted by law enforcement. That is why it is an obvious way to go. The Danish People's Party has, moreover, tabled a motion for a resolution which will soon be discussed in the Parliamentary Assembly on this very subject. In other words, to be brief: if we are to achieve the goal, we must have more police, more severe penalties, focus on travelling foreign criminals and more focus on destroying the criminals' business that is going on through a comprehensive heeling. We need to focus on increasing the level of detection, among other things. by publishing more widely surveillance images of burglars. These are important focus points for the Danish People's Party, and we want them to be further worked on in the future. Then, on behalf of the Left, Conservatives, Liberal Alliance and the Danish People's Party, I shall make the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the government in the next parliamentary assembly will make a bill for a marked and targeted punishment for serious burglary, where there has been someone at home during the break-in. The Danish Parliament also notes that breaking and entering is a priority area for the police, that an operational strategy will be drawn up and that on 1 January 2017 the National Police have established two special investigative communities, including the National Police Department. look at organised burglary crime and which will have to play a proactive role in the fight against burglary. The Danish Parliament recognises that the crime of foreign travellers, including burglar crime, creates insecurity and notes that an operational strategy on travelling criminal groups will be drawn up, as do the police in relation to efforts in border areas, among other things, with regard to travelling criminals. via new technology, including ANPG cameras will be installed at additional border crossings in South Jutland. • V 46).
ParlaMint-DK_20170224102635	Thank you. The proposed adoption will be included in the further negotiations. There is one brief comment, and it is from Mrs Trine Bramsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224102643	I would like to ask the rapporteur what is in the words a marked punishment. Does the Danish People's Party believe that the Minister for Justice's proposal, after which a burglar who was previously punished by 60 days will now be punished by 80 days, is a significant punishment?
ParlaMint-DK_20170224102710	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224102711	I believe that the Minister for Justice has taken the first step, but that we are not in this area. That is why I think that a punishment can be far more marked. And then I hope that the author's party will work with my party to make sure that the government is pulled in a direction where this can become more marked and where we can hit harder both on the break-ins where people might be at home.But I think that's crucial, but also on the many other break-ins that are going on when people are not at home.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224102740	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224102742	The questioner's party would like to do so, but the question is where to work together on this. I would like to hear from the Danish People's Party whether they can support the fact that there will be a genuine debate in the Ministry of Justice, so that we can jointly reach a new burglary package which, on all the parameters mentioned in the debate so far, can strengthen efforts to combat burglary.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224102809	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224102810	As I understand it, the government will come up with a bill in the near future. There I expect that the author's party and my own party will jointly try to put pressure on the government and ensure that we can get more severe penalties that can satisfy both the Social Democracy and the Danish People's Party in this area. So there I think we should really just work together towards the goal that I also understand the questioner's party has.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224102836	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224102838	If Denmark is now the country of the European Union that has the second most burglary only surpassed by Greece then there is obviously a problem that we need to address and discuss. In this context, is it not natural that we should sit around a negotiating table and hear what all the parties think about the issue? We obviously have different views on penalties. It is a discussion that we have had many times here in the Parliamentary Chamber. However, there are other issues where we could have common ground, for example. in relation to the prevention and the rules in the building law and regulations, where there are no rules in Denmark, as there are otherwise in other countries, on certain requirements for windows and doors in new buildings which make it difficult for a burglar to enter. It was something that could be discussed and talked about, involving some experts if you sat around a negotiating table over at the Ministry of Justice. So what is the rapporteur's view that we did not just take a discussion about punishments and punishments, which are usually the usual recipe when you hear the Danish People's Party, but that we sort of had a discussion about the whole palette of options that are, what we can do to get fewer break-ins in Denmark? Because we just have too many break-ins.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224102951	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224102953	I would like to discuss the whole palette of good initiatives and proposals that may be in this area. The questioner is right that punishment is one element. I also think I had other elements in the rapporteur's speech, because there are a great many keys to play on this particular issue. There the rapporteur mentioned a few, and we are very happy to listen to that. Anything that can help to put more pressure on the people who break into the house, the Danish People's Party wants to contribute to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224103020	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224103022	Thank you for that statement. Then I just think that the best way to do this, to have that discussion, is for the Minister of Justice to invite you to a cup of coffee and some of the cakes that are always on the table when the Minister of Justice invites you to a meeting at the Ministry of Justice, and then we can have a joint talk and address the issue from the end of and discuss all the options that are available. Wouldn't that be the best way to do it? I think so personally.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224103047	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224103048	That's also one way to do it. I am now also counting on the Minister of Justice to invite us to coffee to hear what the parties may have of input, just as we are going to work on the proposal that is coming. Clearly, then, it is our position that we should try to pull the government in a harder and more marked direction in this area. I would also like to say that if the Minister for Justice does not want to facilitate a cup of coffee for the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party would like to facilitate it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224103117	Mrs. Zenia Stampe, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224103120	I noticed that Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen said that the fight against burglary was a priority task, or that it should certainly be. As you know, the consequence of prioritising something higher is that something else must be given lower priority. Therefore, I would just like to know what it is that should be a little longer in the windowill, as the police describe it when you put something at the bottom of the pile.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224103147	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224103148	After all, this is an area in which the police will need to step up their efforts in the future, and that is where, with the police settlement that we entered into in 2015, we have had a huge focus on both adding more resources • almost 2 billion. kr. over the four years of the period, but also more officers. For Mrs Zenia Stamp is, in fact, right in saying that the police are under a lot of pressure in many different areas, and that is also why I am open and honest and realise that if Danish police are to be able to provide the services that I believe the Danes are entitled to, but which I also know that very many officers would like to deliver, it will cost more. It's gonna take more, and it's gonna take a lot more cops. That is why I also find it boring that the Radical Left is not part of the police settlement and sits at the table and helps both to finance it, but also to give the police the annual work that is badly needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224103241	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224103242	I can tell you why we're not in it. That is because we do not want to take the money from youth education. It is very good that jobs have been relocated into the province, but if, at the same time, you pull as many jobs out of the province by firing teachers, it doesn't make any difference. So that's the explanation. But we agree that the police must have added more resources. But then I would like to hear a little reflection from the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party on border controls. Why have we not seen a marked drop in the number of break-ins after we have introduced border controls?
ParlaMint-DK_20170224103313	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224103313-2	But the border control I call it a check-out we have at the Danish borders, is of course on and arranged to have to significantly different things than exactly the fight against crime. After all, it is about bringing down the influx of asylum seekers to Denmark, and that is the point of the sample-based control that we have now. And this is not really a permanent border control, as we could imagine or wish for it in the Danish People's Party. So if Mrs Zenia Stamp is involved, then we can try to make it stronger and do it in other ways and ensure that it will also apply in this area. I would like to help the Radicals to do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224103350	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224103352	I thought that was a little interesting. I thought that DF was very proud of the border controls that have come, but I understand that you are not anyway, or that it is not a real border control. What I really wanted to ask was a bit of what the Social Democrats and Enhedslisten rapporteurs also asked about. If we have a common goal in the Danish Parliament that there is something we would like to do about it may be that we have different tools in the toolbox, but we actually agree on the goal: that there are too many break-ins in Denmark, and it is inconvenient; it is hugely cross-border for those who suffer, and we would like to do something about that. That's what we can do as a Parliament. If there are enough of us, a majority of us who want something, then we can make it clear that this is the way we want to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224103455	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224103456	I am very sorry if Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen thinks that I am not happy with the border controls we have. I would just like to call it a sample check because it is not really a permanent border control, as we would like to see it in the Danish People's Party. But yes, it is fantastic that we have now moved in the right direction and got something to remind us of border controls. We are not in the finish line, but we are on our way, and that is good, and we are happy about that, and I smile all over the face at the fact that we have reached that point. Then all we have to do is get to the next phase. So Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen must not think that I am ashamed or that I am not happy with border controls, because I am. I am just saying that it is not as it would have been if the Danish People's Party had had 90 seats. Then I will be asked about negotiations and whether we would like to take part in negotiations on this. I mean, we're taking part in all the negotiations or meetings we're being offered by the government. The important thing for us is to bring down the number. We do that in many different ways. I am also counting on Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen to explain her party's point of view when she comes to the floor. Whether this is done by negotiation or by the government making a legislative proposal that we subsequently sit down and discuss and look at where we can do better, I am, in effect, open to.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224103610	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224103612	But it is precisely now that we are discussing it. Now is the time to say that we are parties that want negotiations, and we can say that clearly to the Minister. I just don't understand why the rapporteur is such a weaver. Because if you really want something to be done about this, it is precisely today that we can say quite clearly that we are a majority in the Folketing who want the Minister of Justice to call for negotiations. And that is just not where I hear the rapporteur being very clear, and I wonder. It is precisely now that the rapporteur can say: yes, we are a majority who want negotiations to be convened.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224103650	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224103651	But we are, after all, a majority of a massive majority of 179 seats which says that something needs to be done in this area. What is, after all, contained in the proposal for adoption that we have endorsed is that the government should be given the opportunity to make a proposal. Then I expect that there will be a great deal of talk about that particular proposal and that we can have some debates on it, but of course also some discussions about where we will be able to help the government to do something even better in the first place in the parties that may be outside the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224103720	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and move on to the rapporteur, Mr Vredeling. Preben Bang Henriksen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224103734	Thank you. We have a question debate today on how the government will ensure a continued reduction in the number of break-ins. I do not think that the whole of Denmark has stopped in breathless excitement over the outcome of this debate, and there can be many reasons for this. But one of the conditions is that we largely agree on what practical things are to happen. We can then disagree, I can hear about who should give the coffee, whether there should be negotiations, etc. But let us now look at reality rather than reality. I think that is what the Danish people are most interested in, and we agree on the reality: 31.885 break-ins last year are far too high a figure. We can therefore only welcome the fact that the number of break-ins is falling, but unfortunately we still have a distinguished second place in Europe. Now I am not quite sure whether the statistics are being made up in the same way in southern Europe as in northern Europe, but, as I said, 31.885 break-ins are too many, and something needs to be done about that. A very large proportion of the burglars are committed by Eastern European thieves. That's about a third, in some regions up to half. 17% the charges relate to persons from Lithuania and Romania. I think it is quite thoughtful that this is the case. It's often organized crime. You have such weekend teams that drive around making weekend break-ins in Denmark, and then they typically leave the effects on a rest stop where they are later picked up by a dedicated transport. I have at least heard that this was to be done quite, quite extensively. I think you have to ask yourself the relevant question: what is it really that causes a Lithuanian or Romanian to drive through several countries in Europe just to exercise its business activity here in Denmark? I think that is actually quite thought-provoking. Why do you bring the last mileage money to come to Denmark? Why don't you stop in Hamburg or Flensburg, or where the hell are you going? I think it might be worth a little philosophering about that. One of the bids, if I had to assess it, is certainly that we in Denmark have some other legislation in this area, and all the more I welcome the fact that the Minister of Justice is now suggesting that we get, if I may say so, the German variant, where there is a special burglary clause. Today, Article 276 of the Penal Code covers everything from the theft of a Yankie Bar to the huge burglary of large companies and private homes. It needs to be split up so that you can see that breaking into private homes is something very special and it is proposed that it be punished more severely. I can agree with previous speakers that the focus must also be on heeling, among other things. by information campaigns. Breaking and entering is a priority area. So it was already with the police settlement about a year and a half ago, which is why it is gratifying to see that although the figure is too high, it is declining. But it's too loud, and as I mentioned before, the Minister of Justice is doing something about it. The Minister of Justice makes a proposal for a split and a special burglary clause with higher penalties for forced entry into private homes and for a more systematic investigation into central investigative units. In addition, it is not prohibited to use the instruments that we already have today. I am thinking here of automatic license plate recognition, which can therefore also be taken into account. There is a return visit scheme, so the police come to visit those who have had and have reported break-ins, to find out how they can make better sure, and advise on this. And by the way, apparently, the prosecution has been instructed to make a claim for higher penalties, etc. I would also like insurance companies to take a more active part in the campaign and, at the very least, in what is going on in connection with the break-in. I am thinking, of course, of the fact that they could give a higher premium to people who secure their homes in different ways. But it is and remains a free market, so it must be up to the companies and their insurers. In conclusion, the motion for a resolution which was read out by my colleague, Peter Kofod Poulsen, on behalf of the governing parties and the Danish People's Party, is acceptable to the Left by its very nature.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224104219	Thank you. There are a few short markings, and the first one is from Mrs Trine Bramsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224104225	I would like to ask the rapporteur whether he believes that a special burglary clause in itself will lead to fewer burglaries. In other words, whether changing legislation, on paper, leads to fewer break-ins.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224104243	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224104245	No, I don't think so in isolation. I just think that lawmaking is an excellent idea not to mix up very different things, such as breaking into private homes and stealing a Yankee Bar in the Usage. But I don't think making an extra paragraph in the penal code in isolation will help.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224104304	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224104306	That's good. After all, we can agree to make changes to the legislation, but today's question debate is about how we get fewer break-ins. I would like to hear from the Left why the party does not mention prevention with a single word, when we now know that the Crime Prevention Council and all the researchers who sit with this area, even the police themselves, have been out saying that prevention is the most effective tool in ensuring a reduction in the number of break-ins. You can do prevention in many different ways, so why does the Left not mention it in a single word?
ParlaMint-DK_20170224104347	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224104349	Part of the question is whether we thought that a division into the burglary clause would have any effect. I said no to that, and I actually expected the questioner to ask: what then? Now I have to continue with the issue which was not followed up and say that what I believe has an effect is the punishment which the Minister is proposing at the same time as the division. Then we are asked about prevention and why it is not filling anymore. I would say that a large part of the prevention we normally talk about in relation to the crime prevention effect is, of course, raising young people and others not to steal. And there I think the Crime Prevention Council has quite an excellent activity at home. But I cannot tell you what needs to be done with the many Eastern Europeans.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224104434	Then it's mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224104437	I just have one very simple question. The rapporteur and I are part of the same proposal for adoption, and there is, of course, a focus on ANPG scanners in border areas. So I would just like to ask the rapporteur of the Left: is border controls good and what would border controls look like if the Left had had 90 mandates?
ParlaMint-DK_20170224104458	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224104500	Is border control good? I think that the questioner who was standing here just now could well find a way of distinguishing between what border controls you want. The questioner was asked about the same thing and replied that one of the forms of border control is the one dealing with refugees and asylum seekers, and another is the one dealing with crime and stolen effects, etc. to do. And as I certainly look at the border controls down there now it's been a lot of days since I drove over myself I don't think they're really lurking on the stolen effects. So to the extent that it is no longer a priority, I have no objection whatsoever to doing so. But as others have said in here, we want to give priority to everything here in the Folketing, rub and stub, everything must be given priority. But all we have to do is preserve the connected vessels. I mean, the money has to come from somewhere. But if the questioner thinks that we do not mind that border controls also apply more to theft effects, then I can confirm that we do not.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224104604	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224104605	Thank you. That is a very honest answer, I think. But the rapporteur forgot to answer what border controls the Left would have if it were possible to decide and have completely free choice on all shelves. How could you imagine it to look like that?
ParlaMint-DK_20170224104618	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224104620	Oh, it's a little difficult for me to answer in a situation where we have to discuss a continued reduction in the number of break-ins, that is, what should border controls look like? I can only say that border controls are many different things. That is what I said before, and if the police come up with a proposal for more effective border controls on burglars and thieves in one way or another, whether it is by automatic license plate reproduction or other form of control, I was just saying X-ray photography, then we are quite willing to take a look at it. There is no doubt about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224104656	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and go to Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Rune Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224104719	Denmark, as several others have mentioned, is the European country which has the second most burglaries per year. citizens, and the number is the famous 31,885 from 2016, as has also been mentioned in the debate. We are only surpassed by Greece. This, of course, makes it absolutely necessary to discuss what we can do about it and, in the view of Enhedslisten, absolutely necessary to have some negotiations in the Ministry of Justice, where we can discuss together what we can do about this. And, as has become obvious in today's debate, there are different approaches to the issue. What we in the Enhedslisten think should be the overriding approach is to look at prevention. And there we simply have to look at the facts in this debate, namely that burglary of homes with safe doors and windows, including locks, is the most effective form of burglar prevention we know about because it prevents burglars from trying to break into the house at all. Yet, unlike other countries, we have not had a tradition of thinking about burglar protection into the construction of private homes. And the current building regulations do not require burglary protection. For Enhedslisten it is therefore the case that improving home burglary protection is central, and ensuring a home once it is built is also much more expensive and more difficult than building security from the start. It would be foolish to regard this development as something that the individual citizen must take care of and take responsibility for alone, and it is not realistic to expect that citizens alone will be able to take responsibility for building burglars. It is about the fact that private individuals rarely influence the construction and construction of their own homes, and the responsibility for burglary protection should therefore lie with the developer. This is already the case in countries such as the Netherlands and England, which have introduced legal requirements for burglary protection for new buildings and major renovations. In concrete terms, windows and doors must have a breakthrough time of at least 3 minutes, and both countries have halved the number of break-ins in newly built homes. It is interesting, of course, that when we have a debate about breaking into Parliament, it is quickly marked by the usual discussion in the legal field that more punishments and punishments are to be imposed. But why has the debate on burglary protection in private homes in a change to the building regulations not been at the heart of this matter? Because if you can get to grips with something that actually bats, that's where the whole debate should start. I would also like to say in relation to punishment that it is not the case that we in the Enhedslist have something against discussing punishment. We would like to do so; we just have the basic view that there must be evidence that higher penalties actually have an effect. And then we also think that the debate on penalties should be nuanced. Because there is a difference between the break-ins that are committed in Denmark and the other countries. In other words, there is a difference between whether it is a homeless drug addict who breaks in quickly to get some quick cash to cover a drug abuse or whether it is organized thieves who come from abroad and do organized crime. These are simply two different types of crime which, of course, both result in break-ins, but which need to be tackled in different ways. I think that should also be at the heart of the discussion on possible higher penalties. So the important thing for us is to have the discussion. We believe that there should be an open discussion and that there should be negotiations in the Ministry of Justice. And we believe that a change in the building law and the building regulations plays a key role in burglary protection. After all, there are standards that describe how to test products to see if they comply with the requirement, for example. the 3 minutes of resistance time. Indeed, standards are common to the whole of the European Union, and there is also a sufficient market for burglary protection of building parts to ensure sensible competition. It is the case that in a report for the Danish Energy Agency in 2015, COWI established that building of private homes will be 0.2-0.4%. more expensive if burglar protection requirements are introduced. And when we see that countries like Holland and England have introduced this and have experienced a halving of the number of break-ins, then it is obvious that this is something we should look at here at home. Therefore, on behalf of the Enhedslisten and the Radical Left, I would like to read the following: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the number of break-ins in Denmark is still among the highest in Europe. A break-in is too much. Therefore, in the current parliamentary year, the Minister of Justice is required to call for negotiations on a new burglary package to ensure a continued decrease in the number of break-ins in Denmark. • V 47).
ParlaMint-DK_20170224105244	Thank you. The proposal for adoption is part of the further negotiations. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and move on to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, and that is Mrs Christina Egelund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224105304	I think it is difficult to trace such the great differences of opinion among us here in the Danish Parliament, fortunately. Because you can't really say the opposite of breaking and entering is wrong. It is a very concrete violation of private property rights when, by breaking into other people's homes, you are usurping things that others have acquired. That's why it's criminal too. In the Liberal Alliance, we are generally of the opinion that both the criminal code and the priority of police resources must strike down on dangerous personal crime and enrichment crime in order to give lower priority to victimless crime. We must take the hardest action against the criminal acts that have a victim. That is why we in the Liberal Alliance welcome the initiatives already outlined by the Minister of Justice in recent days and reiterated here today, which aim to bring down the number of break-ins. I should also like to say that we support the text of the adoption which was read out by Mr Seligman. Peter Kofod Poulsen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224105410	There is one brief comment, and it is from Mrs Trine Bramsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224105416	As I have already mentioned, today's question debate is about how we are going to reduce the number of break-ins. Does the Liberal Alliance believe that the initiatives that are merely about punishment presented by the Minister for Justice will cause the number of break-ins to fall? And where does the Liberal Alliance have evidence that this punishment thing is going to have a direct impact on the number of break-ins?
ParlaMint-DK_20170224105447	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224105448	I believe that what has an effect is that when you are facing a break-in, you know that if you do, there is a great risk that it will be discovered. That means the investigation is working. That's one. The other thing is, the trap has to clap if you commit a break-in. I think that is quite important. Then there are all sorts of other buttons that you can also press. I agree with that. I believe, for example, that if you now have a reform agenda and pursue a growth policy in Denmark, so that everyone gets richer, it will have a positive, spill-over effect on the number of break-ins. In this way, there is nothing black and white in this debate. However, the initiatives put forward by the Minister for Justice are some that we are entirely behind. Then we are open to discussing all sorts of other good ideas. However, I can say about the idea that Mrs Trine Bramsen put forward in her rapporteur's speech about, as I understand it, a tightening of the building regulations, which means that Mrs Trine Bramsen is better able to decide which window to sit in, let us say, Ole Petersen's House in Vejle, that I disagree very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224105557	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224105600	One could also argue that if everyone in Denmark gets richer, then we become more attractive to foreign thieves. This means that even more effective action must then be taken against the number of break-ins. But let's just leave it alone. I would like to ask about prevention, because there are many different types of prevention. There are many different initiatives that can be taken. That is, in fact, what all the experts are pointing to is the best tool for reducing the number of break-ins. Does it not record the Liberal Alliance at all since it was not in the rapporteur's speech?
ParlaMint-DK_20170224105635	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224105637	Yes, it does. I think that today's debate is intended to send out a clear signal from Parliament and we think it is a major problem. We find it insulting when private homes are being robbed. We note that the number of break-ins in private homes in Denmark is too large. We have to do something about that. Then, with the logic put forward by Mrs Trine Bramsen in relation to what I mentioned about the reform agenda and the growth agenda, I think that if you had to draw a political conclusion from it, the argument should be that if we all got poorer, there would be not so much to take. But I do not assume that this is the position of the Social Democrat Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224105714	Then it's mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224105717	Thank you very much and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I just have one question following on from what I asked Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen on: What would border controls look like if the Liberal Alliance could decide? This is part of our adoption of ANPG cameras, a key part for us. So now I would also like to give the Liberal Alliance rapporteur the opportunity to answer that question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224105736	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224105738	After all, we have the basic view of border controls that in an ideal world there was no need for border controls. Then we had the open internal borders in Europe. It's like the starting point. Then we have noted that the open internal borders have been strongly challenged by the fact that there has not been a good guarding of the external borders. That is why we warmly support the temporary border controls that have been in place for well over a year now. As long as it is needed, we are also behind that decision. This is, in fact, a good example of the fact that border controls are something that is constantly being taken away from. It must reflect the reality of Europe. I would like to say quite clearly: as long as there is no solid guard, a proper guarding of Europe's external borders, we think it is a good idea, as a result, to guard internal borders.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224105831	The questioner apostates. There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and turn to the rapporteur of the alternative. It's Mrs. Pernille Schnoor, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224105843	Thank you. I think I'm a little short. I'm gonna take the desk down a little bit. Thank you for the opportunity to express our opinion in today's debate. I am here for Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, my colleague, who could not be here today. I recognise, of course, the seriousness of the problem, which several people have given us today. I live in Northern Zealand myself, and unfortunately there are a lot of break-ins here too. In the alternative, however, we believe that the debate to which the question refers should be taken at a different level. Firstly, we believe that the actual challenge, namely to ensure a continued reduction in the number of break-ins, must be a task for the government in cooperation with the police. Secondly, we do not see the great need to have a question debate today on such a specific area here in our national assembly. One could have asked a minister question or a section 20 question. Here there would be ample opportunity for the Minister to give a full answer to the question. Now that I am standing here anyway, I would actually like to take this opportunity to address the issue from a different angle. The interesting question for our National Assembly is, I think, how we give top priority to the resources of the police. Here, initiatives aimed at reducing the number of break-ins are only one element among many. The tasks of the police are diverse, and it is pointless for us from Christiansborg to shout loudly about all the tasks we would like to see the police perform without taking responsibility for us to discuss how we give top priority to the resources of the police. A good example, which has also been mentioned today, is when we decide to allocate additional police resources to border controls. Then we also make an opt-out. We must be clear about this, and above all we must put before the people what we choose from when we choose something new for. What we are talking about today will therefore ultimately be a priority debate, and we would much rather take that debate with the rest of the Folketing and also with the people in general, because that debate is both much more necessary and much more interesting than the specific issue that we are debating today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224110120	Thank you. There is one brief comment, and it is from Mrs Trine Bramsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224110124	Yeah, well, it's interesting that the alternative doesn't think this is a relevant debate, and yet it doesn't relate to the knowledge that lies in this area. So, what is it that gives the best effect in terms of getting the number of break-ins to fall? After all, it is not the police and the police, to which the rapporteur refers in his speech, it is the preventive initiatives. That is why I think it is appropriate to hear the alternative's approach to preventing burglary. Some of the many major evaluations of prevention initiatives that have also been used in the countries around us, what is the alternative to them?
ParlaMint-DK_20170224110204	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224110206	I do not think the rapporteur quite understood me correctly if it sounded as if we did not find it at all interesting to discuss this. What I mentioned was whether it should be a question debate or whether it should be in other assemblies that we should take this question. I'm actually standing here... it's from 2015... with a report from the Ministry of Justice... It is precisely about that, for example. According to the report, the rehabilitation measures work better, which means that they have a more preventive effect than serving in prison. We are, of course, positive about the preventive aspects of this, so I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224110258	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224110301	That is why I would like to hear the alternative's position on the many different options for prevention. There is neighboring aid, which is burglary insurance, i.e. by making demands through the legislation on the building regulations, which is so much concerned with the Folketing, because it is we who make the laws. That is why I would like to hear a little bit about what the alternative thinks about this type of initiative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224110333	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224110337	We have a lot of focus on preventive action and, as I just mentioned from this 2015 investigation from the Ministry of Justice, it shows, for example, that education works better than higher penalties. We have other proposals on what to do so that criminals do not get into a criminal career when, for example, they do. get out of prison. We have a proposal that we are looking at, for example, to cancel the debts of former prisoners to the public. That is one of the proposals we are looking at.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224110418	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and turn to the Radical Left rapporteur, and that is Mrs Zenia Stamp. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224110430	Thank you. I'll start by signing for the question. I think it is relevant because it points to a real problem which is experienced incredibly violent and cross-border for the victims of forced entry, but it also points to a major priority debate which belongs here in the Folketing. I would like to start overall, and then I will deal with the priorities later on. It is, of course, the most important thing for us to deal with. But I think it will come as a surprise for many to be told that Denmark is second in the EU to breaking and entering. It is not really my view and that of others, I believe, that Denmark, which is otherwise a country with very low crime rates in many other areas, should be the country where there were the most burglars or at least the most victims of forced entry. It actually surprised me, and I think it'll surprise a lot of people. That is why it is an incredibly important question for us to deal with: why is there one area where we bouncing so strongly, when we see that we are so great at preventing crime in other areas? It is a really important question for us to deal with. After all, there are more people who have made a bid for it up here: if it is punishment, it is prevention that needs to be done, etc.? I do not think there is any doubt that there are two things involved: firstly, it is too easy to break into Denmark; it is too easy to break in, and that is why I actually think that the discussion on prevention and windows and doors etc. is relevant. And to Mrs Christina Egelund's comment that Mr. Anders Møller, or whatever we're going to call him, was better at deciding which windows should be compared to the authorities, so I'm not quite sure. I certainly know that if I were to have new windows, I would really like there to be good guidance on what kind of windows could keep the burglars away. Because I don't know how to turn off a window like that and whether it's easy or hard. Are there any specific still windows that are a little harder, so the burglar thinks: No, not in that house, so I take the neighbor's instead? I have no idea, and that is why it is good that we sometimes help the citizens along a little, even though some people think it is paternal. But I think there are a lot of people who appreciate that there are some who are helping us on the way because we cannot be experts on how to break in, which windows are easy to take out, etc. etc. So I think it is quite clear that this is a road we should go and that we should look into it, so we can certainly agree with that. Second, there's the risk. There is too little risk of breaking into Denmark. Some people think that there is too little risk because the penalty is too low. I believe that the risk is too small when it is only 10% to 20%. of the break-ins that are being solved. Well, what does the punishment really mean if a burglar thinks: Well, I'm not gonna be found anyway; I'm never gonna be charged. Then it doesn't matter if the penalty is, what do I know, 3 months, 1 year, 2 years, 3 years. It doesn't matter, because I have 90 ptc's chance not to get caught. So if we were finally to choose between prioritising, that is to say raising the clearing rate, or raising the penalty, then I think it is the clearing rate that will have the greatest effect. That is why this is clearly the way we want to go. And that brings me to the priority debate, which is why I am glad that we are here today. We have discussed border controls very much in recent years, and in addition to the fact that I naturally love the idea of the open borders, everyone knows it and to a degree, so you can probably make fun of it too, so it is not my biggest opposition to the Danish border control. The biggest resistance is that it's a waste of money. It is quite paradoxical that we have the Danish People's Party here saying that it has nothing to do with breaking and entering and that border controls should not be used to combat crime. It's funny. When you say to the Danish People's Party that you cannot prevent asylum seekers from coming to Denmark and seeking asylum by having border controls, they say: 'Well, that is not the purpose at all; it is to check who enters our country, among other things. in order to prevent crime, that we have border controls. So that's an argument that's a bit like the wind blows. After all, we have to note that border controls do not seem to have a particularly strong, if at all, effect on the number of break-ins. In fact, we could see that the number of break-ins increased the first quarter of 2016, i.e. just when we had had border controls. This means that we are pouring a great deal of money and police resources into border controls, but it has no effect on the number of asylum seekers, because, as you know, asylum seekers can seek asylum at the border if they have not been registered in another country first, nor does it have any effect on the number of break-ins, because we can see that this went up just after we introduced border controls. Besides, you can't stop a burglar before he burglars. It's not like you can say, "You look suspicious; you don't get to come in." It is clear that if you can find him in the Europol database, it may be that you can reject him. But that's where we've been stretching our feet. I'm about to end. But one of the things we could have looked forward to was that we had access to Europol's database on the police's small mobile phones, so that if the police met some suspicious one night in front of a large villa in Hellerup, they could immediately look them up in Europol's database. They will not be able to do so because the Europol agreement we have is not as good as if we had been full members of Europol. This is an important area, but unfortunately we have put our feet on the ground ourselves, but we will continue to give priority to this and hope that we can also use the police resources here for clarification rather than for pointless border controls.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224111013	Thank you. There is a brief comment, and that is from Mrs Christina Egelund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224111017	Thank you. Well, let's talk about those windows. I mean, I agree with Mrs Zenia Stampe that not everyone is experts in the installation of windows. I am not, and the rapporteur declares that she is not. And that is why I agree that counselling is a good idea. Information for citizens cannot be opposed, for the contrary should be that we would deliberately hide from the public what was the wise choice of window to take to prevent burglary and I do not think anyone is interested in that. But my point is that there is a huge difference between information, guidance and legislation. And my question is therefore: does Zenia Stampe think that we should legislate on which window Preben, can we call him, choose to put into his house somewhere on the Jutland heath where there might be 10 km to the neighbor?
ParlaMint-DK_20170224111106	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224111108	Whether or not it applies to the Jutland heath, I do not know it may well be that it is differentiated depending on whether it is residential, etc. etc. But I am not opposed to regulating. It's also a social contract. When we want to use police resources to clear up, I also think that there can be an expectation at the other end, and I really think that it will be taken very well in most places, i.e. that there is an expectation that you have some windows that make it a little less attractive to break in as a burglar. This will not be the first area where we choose to regulate; we are actually very good at that in Denmark. I know, of course, that this is one of your priorities, that we should not do so much, but I think it would be a really sensible area to do it for people's sake, because I think that the vast majority of people will be happy about it. It is not a question of paying twice as much for a window. It may be that there are certain characteristics that your new windows need to have in order to build new buildings. Actually, I don't see the obscene paternalism in that. This is a very good prevention against the burglary that people are experiencing very violently, but also against the fact that we need to use police resources to solve it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224111215	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224111217	Then there is one thing on which the rapporteur and I agree, namely that we regulate very much in this country. You can then look at that differently, and I think we do. There are just two grounds on which the rapporteur's point of view is based, and I would like to say that I fundamentally disagree with it, because if you think that this should be implemented by law, you have to assume that the citizens of the European Union were almost suggesting that the rapporteur does not in itself have an interest in securing against burglary, or 2) that the citizens are simply too stupid to decide for themselves what is the wise choice when they have to insert a new window into their house. These are two grounds on which I do not agree. That is how one can disagree, and in itself it is quite uncontroversial.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224111251	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224111253	I certainly don't think people are stupid. However, we have to note that it must be easier to break into Denmark than in many other countries, because we obviously do not have as good anti-theft protection as we do in other countries. So I am not just thinking of alarms, snappy dogs or fences with broken glass etc. And I think that's something you only become aware of once you've experienced it. I read an article before I came up here saying that people start thinking about this when they've been burgled; then it's that you start thinking about: what are the windows I need to have, so I avoid this? And: Uh, I should remember not to leave the window open in the basement so you can crawl in. So I think this is a handout, and I do not think it is a matter of paternalism. It should only be patronage against those who so really don't want to have theft-proof windows. I find it hard to see how many people would think it was really attractive to have windows that you can break up very easily.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224111351	Then it's mr. Preben Bang Henriksen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224111354	I understand that several people have advocated that we should legislate from in here on burglar protection, but I have to ask Mrs Zenia Stampe: are we not punishing the wrong people? Sir. Rune Lund was one of the few who dared to put some figures on it. He said 0.3%. of a newly built house I think that was said was the expense. Well, sir. Rune Lund says no, so I'm not gonna throw myself out in a bigger round about it. But it is clear that this is a major cost for young people who typically build a house. Does Mrs. Zenia Stampe think it's okay that we punish these people with what I call an extra tax? Shouldn't they themselves be allowed to find out whether this house is in a neighborhood that is burglar-drinkable or whether it's a safe neighborhood or whether they want to take the risk? Shouldn't it be up to people to find out for themselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20170224111452	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224111453	But who really says that it will be more expensive if we regulate? I just said we're very open to look at this. I don't have a model in front of me, but I could imagine that some standards were set, so instead of it becoming a question of • and that is what I can almost imagine both the Left and the Liberal Alliance imagining that one is being forced to buy such incredibly expensive theft-proof windows, it may well be that what is happening is that we are setting standards that all window manufacturers who want to do on the Danish market just conform to, and that doesn't lead to a huge price increase.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224111528	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224111529	It is hard to argue against if it does not become more expensive, but I still do not see that this is something that we here in the Danish Parliament have to pull over people's heads. In my opinion, Parcel House owners themselves must find out whether or not they want it to be burglar-proof. If we go in and legislate, I think it is a little like demanding that all Danes acquire a bulletproof vest because there have been 54 shootings here in Denmark. Preserved, burglary is a little larger, but basically it must be up to people even if they burglar.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224111602	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224111604	The same argument could then be used in relation to climate protection, etc. After all, we also have regulatory standards in other areas that need to take account of different considerations, and I am quite clear that there may be an ideological difference. As you know, we are a social liberal party, and we want to make room for freedom, but we also have no objection to sometimes setting standards that can bring society in a good direction and, incidentally, help people, because that is how I often think it is perceived. I think this is the way it will be seen, namely that the parliament has taken the trouble to establish standards that reduce the risk of forced entry. Because we have to deal with that when we are the second most burglarized country. If the regulation of windows in new buildings can make a difference, at least that is something that we want to help look at.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224111658	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the SF, and that is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224111706	The winter holiday, which we have right now in North Jutland, is high season for break-in, and this week and last week, when it was winter holiday in the rest of the country, there has again been a break-in. Denmark compared to other countries has too many break-ins. On the part of the SF, we would like to support the Justice Minister's proposal. We think, however, that it is a little too little and that it is a bit nice to call it a package, but we think it is a very good idea to give break-in a separate paragraph, and we can also look at the length of sentence. But what will so much reduce the number of break-ins is prevention. Breaking and entering is one of the most insecure and insulting things a family can be subjected to, and that is why we must put an end to it and do everything we can to bring it down. In Denmark, breaking and entering is too easy because we guarantee our homes too badly and it is too easy to get rid of stolen valuables. That is why SF also came up with a proposal a few years ago with some concrete proposals, and I would also like to remind the Danish Parliament of them, because that was something the Minister of Justice might be inspired of, or if we were to manage to move to a real debate at some point, it is something the SF would also like to play a part in. We want to tighten up the requirements for theft of new homes, we want to tighten up the possibilities for selling stolen goods such as gold and silver, and finally there must be better opportunities for the police to use decoys in burglar areas. Compared to the first, the Karen period, it is far too easy to get rid of stolen goods from burglars, and therefore we also believe that there should be a waiting period of 30 days before stores may sell used silver or gold or other valuables further. In this way, the police will have a better chance of finding the stolen one before it is too late. Anti-theft in new buildings is also something we have proposed in the past and which I think there really seems to be broad support for from in here, not necessarily as a requirement, but at least that is something we want promoted. From the SF's point of view, we want to introduce a number of functional requirements into the building regulations according to the Dutch model, among others. with a safety requirement for used doors and windows in new buildings, in relation to being able to withstand burglary attempts for at least 3 minutes. The same requirements shall apply when replacement takes place in existing dwellings. The third is decoy houses. The police must be able to use decoys if they find it appropriate. In areas that are particularly affected by break-in, there should be the possibility to have these decoys that have attractive valuables with tracking devices in them. This will give the police a better chance of finding the thieves and their places of residence. Now I can hear Preben Bang Henriksen sitting down there having fun, but it's actually something that's been in demand, and that's why we had it with us. That is not all we have to or can legislate on in here, and that is why I would also like to call on the Minister of Justice to engage in a dialogue with the insurance companies and the police in relation to what can be done. For example, if you have very expensive valuables, you can label them with DNA water... it will have a certain value before it pays off, but it is certainly a method. You can have a discussion with the insurance companies, in relation to whether you can get a lower premium if you fortify your home and your valuables. And finally, I do not know if, since we made this proposal, such a special Danish-German entity has been created, but it was certainly something that could be discussed. Then the natural question is, of course, where the resources will come from if you want to do all these things. That question was asked to Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen up here, but I don't really think he answered it. The police have too little resources. I think we all agree on that. Therefore, if we want to give them extra tasks or send out some political signals that we should be able to expect the police to come, then more resources must also be provided. Because we make one proposal after another in this Chamber, which the police must take care of, and they say: well, we do not have the manpower for what we are lying down. There are a large number of demands, the limit, there are guarding tasks and all sorts of things, and therefore, of course, it only makes sense to make these demands, political wishes, if there are also more resources. The SF wants to be a part of that. When we are not in the police conciliation, it is because we simply did not want to take the money from youth education and finance it that way through. We thought this was unsolidarous to young people beyond all borders, but we would really like to be involved in discussing how we can find more resources for this area. There is a problem with people losing confidence in us and in the police when they experience something that is deeply offensive and do not see or feel that it is being taken seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224112224	Thank you. There are a few brief comments and the first is from Mrs Pernille Schnoor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224112228	Well, I'm just curious to hear why SF is in a adoption text where you mention higher penalties. As I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, the Ministry of Justice conducted a study in 2015, pointing out that stricter penalties have no effect at all and that resocialising measures work better. So I'm curious to hear why SF is helping write that there must be higher penalties in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224112309	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224112312	Thank you. I also hope that it was clear from my rapporteur's speech that all the measures that I believe will be so effective will be preventive. This was something that my former colleague, Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, who was also chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, was very concerned about and on which she had a dialogue with a lot of those who know how to prevent it. That's why the focus was on it. When we are in a text for adoption which also contains stricter penalties, it is not a question of it helping anything in terms of preventing burglary. It is about the one leg of the law policy, namely that there must be a sense of justice: that in relation to what you have suffered as an abuse or whatever it is for a feeling you are sitting with, the penalty is also in line with it. It is my fundamental position, and it is the SF's, that we should do what works, but it doesn't work very often to put people in prison. That is the second leg, namely the feeling that there is some reasonableness in it too.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224112407	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224112411	So the SF acknowledges that it doesn't work to put people in prison, but that there's something symbolic in it. Is this how I understand it? So it is about the signal in saying that there must be stricter penalties, more than the actual execution of it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170224112425	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224112428	It is rare for people to become better people by going to prison. Fortunately, we have a good criminal justice service that actually spends a great deal of resources and effort on, for example. to provide some of the inmates with an education. We can see that there is a clear link between those who have been deployed and then the level of education or lack of level of education they have. So there are clearly some things you can do while they're in prison. But I think there are very few areas where it helps to put people in prison. It can, of course, have a deterrent effect when the penalties are of a certain length, but for us it is also a question of the fact that, as a citizen of a society, one must think that there is some reasonableness in the length of the sentence when one has experienced an attack, a rape, a break-in, all sorts of things. Surely there must be some reasonableness in that. We think it may be that we disagree.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224112515	Thank you. Then it's mr. Preben Bang Henriksen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224112520	This may be due to the acoustics in this Chamber, but did the rapporteur say something about the introduction of decoy houses? In that case, I just need to define that concept a little more clearly, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224112531	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224112535	In other words, it is a reasonable cost-effective way of getting closer to the investigation if the police suspect that there are organized burglar gangs at stake, which repeatedly house in a particular area. That is why, of course, it must be seen in the context of what I said before, namely that there must be resources for it, because this is a costly way of investigating. But it is simply houses where there are very expensive furniture, valuables and other things that can be used as bait in the clearing work if there is an area that is very hard hit by burglary.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224112618	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224112619	Then we got so smart. After all, there are rules on what is called provocative agents in the Code of Procedure, in other words where the police, like the police, are causing a crime, and they must, of course, be respected. I'm not going to go into that any further. It is mentioned that abroad, the Netherlands, for example, has this burglar protection, etc. a fine effect. And we all drive together with some numbers that say that Denmark is in second place. I just have to ask, and perhaps I should have asked others that too: Can you be sure how that statistic was actually made? In other words, does not the rapporteur also think that it is possible that in Denmark there are no dark figures at all, because everything is reported because of insurance and home insurance? It is not certain that they have the same insurance system abroad. Actually, they haven't.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224112707	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224112710	That can easily be a factor, and I fully agree with that. But everyone we've talked to, who knows something about this, says that there are two factors that make there are so many break-ins in Denmark. One is that we burglarize our homes too badly, and the other is that it is too easy to get rid of stolen valuables. These are the two things I hear over and over again. That is why it is also at the heart of some of our proposals here. In relation to what the rapporteur of the Left has just said about provocative activity, I would like to say that it was also a question of changing legislation if we wanted to give the police those resources. So, of course, it will be a discussion about which consideration is the most important.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224112753	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and then we go to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr Conservatives. Naser Khader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224112800	A home is the most important thing a family has. It is conservative heart blood that we make it harder to be a burglar in Denmark. It is simply cross-border and creates insecurity when there is a break-in. I am therefore pleased that we in this House will have the opportunity to discuss the subject as we have done so far, because we must make sure that it is as difficult as possible to be a burglar in Denmark and we must ensure that the home can be our safety base; one must be safe in one's own home. The general trend is that there are fewer reported break-ins than in the past, but unfortunately this still means that there are too many break-ins in Denmark. In 2016, according to Statistics Denmark, 31.885 houses were reported, more than 30,000 break-ins, and although the number is decreasing, it is still missing for many, and something needs to be done about that. That is why we are also pleased that the Minister for Justice is providing answers to the question today, and that is what we must recognise in our adoption today. Already Monday, the Minister of Justice made a new proposal in which the Minister of Justice has proposed: a, an independent burglary clause in the criminal code, b, a tightening of the punishment for burglary committed while the victims are at home; c, further focus of the police on the efforts against traveling criminals, including in connection with burglary crime. The independent burglar clause in the criminal code is important because burglar crime is a special form of crime, because it is not just a bicycle being stolen; breaking into your own home is a huge violation of privacy, and that is why it is something special and it must be punished more severely. In addition, we will sharpen the penalty for breaking and entering while someone is at home. It is unsure that you cannot be in your own home without fearing that there is a man with an elephant hat in the living room. Last but not least, we must ensure that an extra focus is placed on Eastern European criminals or so-called travelling criminals. I know that the police are currently drawing up a strategy for action, and it must be ensured that action against travelling criminal groups is strengthened, and we must find those who help travelling criminals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224113051	There is one brief comment from Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224113059	I would like to ask the same question that I have asked the other blue rapporteurs: does Conservatives not care about prevention? All experts involved in forced entry point out that prevention is the very best way to ensure that people are not visited by intruders. I only hear about punishment in the rapporteur's speech, and that is something that we are very happy to discuss, but I do not hear a single word about prevention. Does it not record the Conservative People's Party, what all experts point to is the best solution?
ParlaMint-DK_20170224113138	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224113141	Of course, prevention is also involved. Just because I did not mention it in the rapporteur's speech does not mean that it does not matter, of course it does. There is also a whole lot of prevention at the moment. SSP cooperation has been strengthened by the last multi-annual agreement, and prevention is therefore also to throw out the criminals of Eastern Europeans. It is also prevention. Giving criminals higher sentences is also a form of prevention, for then they will be prevented from breaking and entering. So a great deal is being done. In addition to that, there is the ghetto effort, where the police are also involved, because there is also a lot of crime going on in the ghetto areas. It is also part of prevention. So because it is not mentioned in the rapporteur's speech, it does not mean that it is not a priority.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224113233	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224113237	Insurance & Pension, which is an interbranch organisation for insurance companies, points out that the very best solution to limit the number of break-ins they absolutely recommend as point no. 1 is to look at how to better secure your doors and windows so that it becomes harder to break in. They recommend this on the basis of experience from, among others, The Netherlands and England, where you've seen a halving half the number of break-ins after you introduced these requirements. I would like to hear the reflections of the Conservative People's Party that it is such a great player who recommends it and that there is such well-documented experience in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224113316	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224113317	That sounds reasonable, but we just don't have to legislate about it. We should not go in and interfere in how builders build their houses and apartments. But I could encourage the questioner to send a shepherd letter to all builders in Denmark and encourage them to build in this way. That would be a good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224113346	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then I give the floor to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224113356	The last one-and-a-half hours of debate have confirmed to me that this is certainly an area in which we must make a great effort to disagree. We have confirmed each other that burglar crime must be combated. Then we have different approaches to it, we have different focus on what is important. Of course, we are different political parties. I would really like to read my speech again, because I think it was such a good answer to everything that has been discussed. I will spare the House that, but I just want to take out a few areas. Well, breaking and entering is a priority effort. Let's not make it sound like it's not. burglar crime is dropping. Unfortunately, we see some bumps in certain places where it rises, and that is a pity, but burglar crime is fortunately falling even though it is far too high. Some new proposals have been made. We're focused on travelling criminals. We have set up the two special investigation units, Special Investigation East and West, and they must also focus on this area. We are doing a large number of things in the field of prevention, for example. the fact that the National Police are now setting up a short training programme on burglary prevention to ensure that there are selected police officers who will be able to provide citizens with better guidance on security in order to prevent burglary. I think that is an extremely good form of prevention. A few questions were asked about prevention. The Crime Prevention Council is doing much, including in the form of heeling campaigns. The police offer return visits to citizens who have been subjected to more than one break-in and then try to guide citizens both technically and tactically on how to secure the accommodation. Then there's the whole neighborhood help, it's amazing. Before I got my present job, I have been around to visit various areas of the country and to talk to people about how to help each other in different ways in residential areas, how neighbours have alarms that go within a certain area of the residential area, where you then come and help each other immediately. It also brings something social with it. You're actually gonna get to know each other better in the villa district when there's a false alarm and what else happens. This is a very good way of working together. So there's plenty of prevention going on. The Attorney General of the Public Prosecutor's Office has identified burglaries as prosecutorial focus in 2017. And last but not least, in the multi-year agreement, we have strengthened the police. We're training more cops. Everyone knows the police are under pressure. The police can't do anything extra in all areas, but they're doing a good job. And then, in the multi-year agreement for the police, we have dropped more funds. There is specifically a section on burglar crime in the agreement we have made on the police. So I think we are very well on our way when it comes to combating burglar crime, and we must, of course, continue to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224113704	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Trine Bramssen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224113709	I do not think anyone disagrees that the Minister has put forward some excellent initiatives. However, it gives food for thought when the SecurityBranch, Insurance & Pension, the Crime Prevention Council and even large parts of the police point out that the proposal to secure buildings better through the introduction of a clause in the building regulations on door and window requirements is the absolutely most recommendable proposal. It should then give food for thought to the Minister for Justice of the country that such large players, even those who are not known to be particularly left-wing, are standing with such a clear recommendation. Therefore, I would like to hear the Minister for Justice's reflection on this proposal and why he is sweeping so big players off the field so easily.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224113807	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224113809	First of all, I would like to say that building regulations are not my area of responsibility. I guess it would be a little fresh if I stood there and told you what it's gonna be like. In addition, I would like to say that I do not care whether those actors are left-wing or right-wing. What I care about is what my party and the government think about this issue. After all, I feel that an insurance company, an industry organisation, is more than welcome to take a private initiative and to inform citizens about how best to secure your accommodation. I think that is excellent. Then, of course, the discussion is about whether we must by law force it through with consistency for producers, what the consequences are, whether it is only for the benefit of large producers what this means. I think we are turning the debate around a little bit: we should now make demands on ordinary, law-abiding citizens, because otherwise there will be criminals and break in. It's the criminals we're going after. Then you can choose as a human being what you want to do about your dwelling, your house. I think most people think very well when they build and they renovate. The only question is whether to legislate. I don't think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224113920	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224113923	The minister says he's preoccupied with what the government thinks. After all, I was hoping that we had a Justice Minister who was concerned about what works in terms of making the number of break-ins fall. I would like to ask the Minister why he does not want to call for negotiations on this, focusing on the three elements: higher penalties, prevention and police investigation tools. Why is it that the Minister does not believe that it makes sense to involve the Folketing in a discussion of it, so that we can put the many good proposals that I believe have actually been made here today to democratic debate and countries with a common agreement that will ensure that the number of break-ins is dealt with?
ParlaMint-DK_20170224114004	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224114007	Now it was Mrs Trine Bramsen herself who put it politically, whether they were right-wing or left-wing, and then I say that the government says what we mean. And we're doing a lot of work. We support the crime prevention work... the police get special training... the police set in with special investigative units. We do a lot of work. I just do not want to take the initiative from all citizens; I really want there to be a responsibility in being a citizen of Denmark. With regard to the question of why I do not wish to call for negotiations, I did not realize that I had spoken on that matter at all. However, I feel that the government can put forward a legislative proposal, and we can also discuss something with some parties, and then there is a committee in which matters are dealt with. But is any proposal going to lead to a great deal of negotiation? We'll see about that. Now I'm going to think about how I think this should be processed in the best possible way. I assume that Mrs Trine Bramsen does not give a damn about the process, but the result is important.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224114105	The next question is Mrs Zenia Stampe, the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224114110	At the end of 2015, the National Police Commissioner, Jens Henrik Højbjerg, said that breaking and entering was a top priority task • top priority. Then I would like to read a quote from yesterday from Kolding, where the police say: "Our investigators, like other police officers, have a finding that their number of charges has decreased by 73 per cent. in the year, have been given to other tasks, such as border controls. We make a balance of priority... The break-in thefts will be a little longer in the window frame. Can I get a reflection on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20170224114155	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224114158	The questioner may have the reflection that the area of intrusion is a priority area, and then we have a large number of priorities in the Danish police, which of course means that sometimes you cannot everything in half the time, and if you are particularly strained in an area, there is always a priority. I would like us to strengthen the Danish police as soon as possible so that it could be given equal priority, but right now the questioner knows very well that there is a challenge at the border where the individual circles hand in staff, and that is of course a challenge. That is because we are in a special situation in Europe, and that is why, of course, it also means something to the police. We can't train cops in no time. It takes time, but of course you have to follow what is being said by giving priority to breaking and entering. I think that is what we are doing now.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224114246	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224114248	So the reflection is that the National Police Commissioner said it was a top priority area, but it wasn't, anyway, because there were other things that came to. I can say that Kolding has actually had a fall in burglar crime, so that way they have not been extra hard hit. In fact, there have been fewer break-ins. But then, as they also say in Kolding, the minister says: we have provided police resources. That is one of the reasons why I am very sorry about the border controls. I am very pleased that the Minister is saying this so clearly, and I would therefore also like to ask for it to be repeated. Does the Minister say that border controls have meant that fewer resources have been allocated, or should I say, on the other hand, that breaking and entering has been downgraded. Has this been a consequence of border controls?
ParlaMint-DK_20170224114341	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224114342	I cannot say quite clearly what the priorities have been, because in the individual circles, based on the objectives you have and the focus areas you have, of course, you give priority to the resource you have. But that goes without saying, and it doesn't come as a surprise to anyone that the amount of resources is what it is, and now that we were in a situation everyone in this room knows what was wandering people on our motorways, we were in a special situation, we introduced a temporary border control, it is clear that resources are going from there to there. But are we gonna do something about it, or are we not gonna do anything about it? Yes, we are doing something about it because we are now educating, for example. Policy adets, which have a much narrower focus, such as: It is about guarding tasks and border controls. So we're doing a whole lot about it, but we can't witches.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224114428	The next question is Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224114432	The Minister says that although the building regulations are not his area of responsibility, one simply cannot afford to impose such rules on citizens. I would just like to sketch out just a few of the things that appear in the building regulations today: Availability, glass constructions, thermal indoor climate, air quality, acoustic indoor climate, lighting conditions, escape routes, fire engineering installations, smoke spread, moisture and durability. Does the Minister believe that it is not possible to demand that people should be protected against forced entry, against the abuse it is, against the insecurity it is, but that all these demands and many more are perfectly reasonable? Or is this also an attack on people's individual freedom, that is, that there are demands for acoustics, humidity and so much else?
ParlaMint-DK_20170224114529	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224114531	I would very much like to take a political debate on the freedoms of the Danes and the limits of what to interfere with. I would very much like to have a debate on the building regulations, that is to say, whether everything in it is equally appropriate. It'll probably be a little fresh if a Justice Minister just takes over another minister's resort and says: Now I'm gonna sweep everything off the track, and then I'm gonna run that store. Well, you can have a lot of opinions about that. But I don't recognise that there's nothing you can do to burglar-proof. There may have been one information campaign after another; insurance companies can inform private citizens. We take it as such a fact that people are simply so stupid that they don't care. I don't see the world like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224114607	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224114610	The fact is that there are very many houses in Denmark that are not burglarized. The fact is that Denmark is the country in Europe that has the most burglaries after Greece it is just a fact. The police have so many things to spend their resources on. If, for the sake of the citizens, we could both ensure that they did not have to go through the terrible experience of a break-in, but would also say that we are actually demanding it, because we are also using society's resources to solve this, to try to investigate it further, then we actually think it is a small price to pay for us as a society and as individuals to avoid as massive an attack as it is to have a break-in in our own home.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224114649	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224114651	Should we not then agree and hope that those actors who could also see a commercial interest in the fact that there were not so many break-ins had an incentive to provide information about this. I think there is a lot of prevention going on. The limit on how much we need to legislate should just go somewhere, and I believe that every citizen should assess this himself. I would also like to question what other complications this could have. But, you know, we're gonna have to discuss this. However, I do not think that legal action should be taken in relation to this. It's pretty much outside my resort that I get to talk about, but I still think it's exciting.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224114733	The next question is Mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224114738	If I want to burglary my home today, I have to buy a niche product, which is much more expensive than a standard product. And now that there are common European standards on how to make burglar-proof windows, doors and locks, and when COWI states in a report to the Danish Energy Agency in 2015 that it will cost between 2 and 4 thousand extra in relation to the house's building price to introduce it, and when you also have to assume that in the longer term it will be such that if it becomes a standard that everyone lives up to, well, in the longer term there will not be an additional cost by making this kind of window, and if you look at the fact that in Holland and England you have done so and that there is a similar discussion in other countries, which may mean that many other countries will also start to introduce these common European standards, are not some arguments that together make the Minister of Justice thinking that here is something we should probably also discuss at home?
ParlaMint-DK_20170224114837	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224114840	Yes, we certainly need to discuss it, just as we need to discuss the wide range of preventive measures and interventions I mentioned in my speech. Now the fight against burglary is not just a building code discussion. I think there are far, far more things in it. One could also choose to say in relation to this with a niche product or a regular product whether we in Denmark should try to believe that we have a market and that a market can work. I believe in the market.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224114903	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224114907	I don't suppose the Minister of Justice is going to scrape the entire building code. I mean, there are some basic rules on how to build a house that is reasonable, because we don't just all go out and build at will. After all, there are a large number of rules that make sense and that have meant that we have constantly raised the building standard at home. When you have the opportunity, for example. In the case of new buildings or major renovations, to say that there is a new common European standard which already exists and which is also a Danish standard and which is then the one that needs to be used, it will therefore be something that will give minimal extra costs and in the long term will not do so but will have a great effect in combating burglary.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224114949	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224114951	I didn't think the day would come when I heard Enhedslisten speak for common European standards and I think this is a fantastic discussion. I think it is fresh to discuss the whole of the building regulations; and no, I do not think it should just be abolished. But what I have spent the most time talking about and answering questions is something that does not concern my own resort. I'd like to discuss it, but I think it might just fit in where it belongs. I believe in the market. I believe that people can manage to secure their own homes, and I believe that dialogue and information will go a long way. And are we not to join together in welcoming all the good things the police and other actors are already doing today?
ParlaMint-DK_20170224115029	There are no more brief comments. I thank the Minister. The next to speak is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224115050	I would like to thank you for an interesting debate in which the political positions have been clarified. And then I will mention the number 31.885 again. It was the number of break-ins that were in 2016, and that is essentially the figure we have spent the last 2 hours discussing. Because that's the number we're going to have to drop. The Minister of Justice has made some suggestions on how to reduce the figure of 31.885, but the answers to what really has an effect and about the initiatives presented by the Minister of Justice today have an effect, still blowing away in the wind. So, in addition to thanking you for a good debate, I would like to say that this is at least something that we on the part of the Social Democrats will be discussing further. We refuse to accept that 31.885 people should be subjected to the huge abuse, that is to have intruders in their homes. That is why this discussion continues, and if the Minister for Justice does not want to invite us to negotiations where we can get the many good proposals that I think have been made here today from the various parties into play, then we must take the further discussion here in the Folketing, where we also have every opportunity to do so. But thank you for a good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224115225	There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224115229	Thank you. I'm just right here rounding up curious to hear something. After today's debate, we agree, as I understand it, that this is a matter of great priority, and we also agree, as I understand it, that it is very much about prevention, and I would just like to hear: will the rapporteur help us abolish border controls and spend the money on re-socialising measures instead?
ParlaMint-DK_20170224115258	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224115302	I think that was a question that should have been asked when I made my political speech. What we in the Social Democratic Party have put forward on the back of this debate is that we are being called for negotiations on how to reduce the number of break-ins. If the Minister does not wish to do so, when the Minister does not want us to jointly land on a package that can limit the number of break-ins, then we will come up with a number of proposals here in Parliament and will put it on the agenda of the Committee on Legal Affairs in the form of hearings and other matters. All positions can then be discussed, including the alternative positions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224115340	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224115344	The reason why I am asking now, not quite at the beginning, is that I have been able to hear that there has been quite a lot of agreement that this is a matter of priorities, and there have been others. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur and myself and other rapporteurs for their support for the fact that this is very much a matter of prevention. And that is why I am only asking the question now. However, I do not think the rapporteur answered the questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224115402	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224115407	After all, social democracy has today come up with a proposal as to what we think it is necessary to do in order to reduce the number of break-ins, and we have indicated that we do not believe that it is primarily a question of increasing penalties. We have also indicated that we want to provide the police with better investigative tools. Not least, we have stated that prevention, as all experts point out, is the most effective thing we want to discuss further in the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224115440	We thank the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposals for adoption will take place only on Tuesday 28 February 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224115503	The debate is open and I give the floor to the Minister for Public Innovation to begin with.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224115521	Thank you for that, President. Let me begin by expressing my support for the proposal from the rapporteurs. It is a very important theme. Nor do I believe that anyone in this Chamber can disagree with the fact that we must work to remove unnecessary rules and administrative burdens for public sector employees, which the proposal proposes. I also think it is very difficult to find someone who can stand here today saying that there is nothing to come after there is no room for improvement, not least when you hear stories that the total employment legislation is almost 9 km long, otherwise it was printed on paper. That may tell a great deal in itself. This also indicates that the simplification of rules must and must be possible, and that it is not least deeply intrusive and necessary. I would therefore also like to acknowledge, on behalf of the government, the challenges addressed by the motion for a resolution. I very much agree that there is a need to take action in this area, which is also a priority for the government. But it is also no secret that this is a complex and difficult exercise. Yes, one can hardly find that government with respect for oneself, which has not over the years tried to address the issue of regulatory simplification and debureaucratisation in the public sector, and that is why, of course, we must also learn from the past in order to find the wise solutions for the future, in terms of how we approach this task. Basically, all the rules have been adopted for a purpose and for a reason. That is not to say that there are no rules that cannot be seen as unnecessary. Unfortunately, there are very many of them, but it must be important that we go to the work on the regulatory simplification in the public sector thoroughly. We must ensure that we have a look at the whole, the overall context and the interaction between the different rules, both within and between sectoral legislation. In this light, I also believe that the resolution presents a number of challenges in its approach. A simplification forum for the public sector has been set up. The Forum should remind us of the Corporate Forum for simpler rules that we know from the corporate area. In the Enterprise Forum, there is a great deal of focus on individual actions that can ease the burden on businesses. In relation to an approach with such a transfer or copy of it, I fear that there will be a focus on individual actions and not on the overall regulatory complex. As far as the public sector is concerned, the government is taking a much more holistic approach, looking more fundamentally at how the public sector as a whole meets citizens. That is why we also want the government to look at the dependencies and coherence between cross-cutting legislation, sectoral legislation and also all the many decentralised requirements that exist. At the same time, I also believe that we will achieve the best results if we take care to anchor the efforts of the responsible ministers instead of placing the task and therefore also the responsibility in external forums and the committee that the proposal proposes. I believe that an anchoring of the ministers responsible and with the support of the Folketing is essential for political ownership of the simplification of rules as well. Because it is fine to have visions about wanting to remove rules and weeding out into bureaucracy, but there must also be a sense of action in the ministries to do something about it and, after all, not least that the Folketing is delivering what needs to be done as far as the places where legislation is to be logged out are concerned. Several good initiatives are already under way. As part of the employment reform, for example, it has been agreed to simplify employment legislation. Similarly, the recommendations of the Supplementary Commission have also led to the start of work, as is also apparent from the comments made on the motion for a resolution. I think that this is a balance in which we must ensure that we involve and listen to the citizens and to the experiences of the practitioners, but we must also ensure that we have an eye on the whole and thus look at things in a context and balance between the many, many different considerations that exist. It has to be said that municipalities and regions are to a large extent also the subject of the debureaucratisation which will ensure more time for the citizens' welfare. I think it is here that the work on simplification must really make a difference to those that it is all about at the end of the day, namely the citizens. That is why I also think it is vital that municipalities and regions should be involved in the work of debureaucratisation and simplification in the public sector. There we need to prepare thoroughly how we can involve and activate municipalities and regions, including making sure that we get thinking into all the layers of municipalities and regions that exist, from practitioners and further up to local politicians in individual municipal councils. We, the government, are going to come up with a plan for how we imagine this interaction can be organized. So, although we on the part of the government are on the agenda, we do not believe that the proposal here, in its wording and form, hits the dial so completely. However, as I said, we think that there are a great many good intentions. In general, I welcome the fact that there is a common recognition that there is a need for action in these many areas, and it promises as a good start for future work, but hopefully also cooperation in this area that is needed from the whole of the Folketing. I look forward to presenting the government's initiative to you shortly in order to launch a common and targeted simplification effort in the public sector. Already today, I would like to invite the parties to an initial discussion of your ideas and perspectives on how best to tackle the entire debureaucratisation effort. So there is certainly an open invitation from me to all the parties of the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224120228	There is a brief comment from Mrs Sanne Bjørn, the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224120233	Thank you. I am aware of the fact that the Minister says that one of the important things is that we should have more time for the citizen and that it is becoming more close to the citizen. That is why I am concerned about the fact that the Minister for Public Innovation has also said that we need to go further on the liter, which in turn means that the public employees will have to run more strongly on whether the Minister can reveal a little about what simplifications and initiatives the Minister will take, i.e. when you want both to drive longer on the liter and to provide more citizen-friendly services.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224120313	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224120315	The fact is that driving longer on the gallon means ensuring that employees have more time for the core tasks in the public sector, that is to say, we make sure that as a social and health assistant in a nursing home or as a nurse in a hospital, we spend our time on what we have taken an education in and want to use it for, that is, with the citizens, with the patients, and less time on everything else, which may sometimes be seen as illogical documentation or demands on processes and other things, which steal the time from what is essential, namely the time for the citizens. This ensures that the public sector can do more. Firstly, it ensures that we can have a better quality in the services we offer to citizens, and secondly, it ensures that we can give better help to our citizens, and thus also that the public sector goes further on the list. As the government's basis also shows, we will present a comprehensive proposal for the renewal of the public sector and, of course, debureaucratisation plays a key role in what we are going to put forward. And I would also like to invite the parties of the Danish Parliament to contribute to this work today, in other words, in relation to the actual discussion of the resolution here today. I hope and believe that all the parties in the Folketing have so many good proposals that they are just passionate about getting to the desk. Then we can start looking at them.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224120442	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224120444	I would like to sign for the Minister's invitation, and the Radical Left is always ready to contribute to reducing bureaucracy in the public sector. It's just not that easy. We are, of course, looking forward to seeing the action plan, but I would like to ask once again whether the Minister can reveal what type of regulatory simplifications are • since we know that time is what nurses, SOSU assistants, teachers and educators say it is the most difficult thing to get with patients, children and the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224120520	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224120522	Thank you to the rapporteur for the question, and she is also told that this is not so easy. I think that is an important point in this whole discussion, and that is also why I said in my opening speech that I do not think that one can find the government with respect for itself that has not put debureaucratisation on the agenda and really tried to deliver an effort. On the other hand, there may be a little longer between the snaps when it comes to finding significant results or examples of debureaucratisation in the public sector. And that is not because all previous governments have been completely useless and have not been able to figure out how to do this. It tells us something about how difficult it is, and thus also that we have to proceed very systematically, but also from my chair that we have to take a much more holistic approach to the public sector. We must also look at the individual sectors in conjunction with each other, we must not only look at health, but also look at the relationship with the elderly sector • to mention just one example, where two sectors are interdependent, and very many citizens are typically provided with services, solutions from both sectors.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224120626	The next question is Mr. Magnus Heunicke, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224120630	Thank you. I would like to thank the Minister for starting with the view that we need to do something about it. In preparing for today, I have been reading up on the previous parliamentary debates on this subject, and there have indeed been many, and everyone has been able to agree entirely with it. But the results have probably been a little few, so good luck with that work. And I would also like to thank you for inviting me to join you. I think this is something we need to resolve broadly politically. It's not just snuff, it's politics too. It is also about public sector vision. The Minister himself mentions the government basis, from which one can read the Minister's comments on the fact that there will be a new round of compulsory tendering in the municipalities, in which the State says that the municipalities must be forced to send more tasks in tenders. Is it then the Minister's experience that such a new round of forced supply will lead to less bureaucracy, or is there not a risk that it will actually lead to more bureaucracy?
ParlaMint-DK_20170224120734	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224120735	In any case, we are perhaps moving a little at the edge of what is the intention or content of the specific motion for a resolution. But this government is not obsessed with coercion; we are, in fact, concerned that we do something more about what we all do when we, as citizens or private individuals, act in terms of price and quality. After all, none of us, as private individuals, go out and make a major investment like buying a new refrigerator or something else without looking at prices, look at quality. We also need to improve on this when it is taxpayers' money that we are talking about. It's for me to see common sense. I also think, when asked about the public sector vision, that it is, of course, a question of ensuring the most and best possible quality for the many billions of dollars that we spend every year in the public sector in the municipalities, regions and the state. I shall then sign for the good luck that I received from the rapporteur on the preliminary question. I hope, then, that the Social Democrats will also open up to what ideas and concrete ideas and proposals the Social Democrats hopefully have, but which I have not yet seen presented. It is something about getting your hands off reform. If it is a reform in which we simply have to stay away and do nothing at all, then it is certainly not there that we are getting rid of bureaucracy in the public sector. This therefore requires us to get our hands on it and to start delivering concrete results for the benefit of public sector employees, and therefore also ultimately for the benefit of citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224120908	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224120909	Could one perhaps get an answer to the question I asked, namely: is there a connection between the government forcing some municipalities to carry out more tenders, and the number of process objectives and the level of control and bureaucracy, tender documents, job descriptions and all that we know the researchers have documented it is in order to force the municipalities to turn up the supply of core welfare? Is it the Minister's view that there is a connection here, as the researchers say, or is it something that has not proved in reality?
ParlaMint-DK_20170224120954	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224120956	I have not read in the government base that the government will force the municipalities to do one thing or the other. But that depends, of course, on which eyes you read the government basis or try to interpret something. What we clearly indicate and say clearly on the part of the government is that we want to focus on what we all do when it comes to taking care of our own money: asking about the price and about quality. The naturalness of the previous government's own Productivity Commission, moreover, to such an extent as this, requires us to be better at promoting more systematically in the public sector. This ensures that there is also more money for the core welfare. On the issue of bureaucracy, the clear ambition of this government is that we want less, not more bureaucracy. That is also what we want to be judged on in the end. And, as I said, I also hope that at some point the Social Democratic Party will tell us what specific proposals we have and hopefully will also share with the parties of the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224121059	The next question is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224121104	Thank you, Minister. I think it is really nice that the government takes this seriously, and I also fully agree with what the Minister says, namely that a great many governments have tried to do so, but it is a very complicated area and it is really difficult, so I think it is really nice that it is once again highlighted, and I am also very pleased to hear that the Minister is of course taking it seriously, and the alternative would really like to take part in a debate on it and try to get closer to what the concrete solutions are going to be. As I understood the Minister, the Minister said that she believes that the simplification of the rules should be anchored in the individual ministries, because then there will be ownership and so on. For that. I also think it is important that there should be a concerted effort, that is to say, from the Prime Minister's point of view, because I think there should be other buns on the soup this time if we are going to move in this area at all. So my one question is about how the Minister is dealing with this, and the other question is whether, in addition to involving the parties, which I think are really cool, the Minister intends to involve them, for example. the social partners, for it is the employees who work in, for example. the municipality, which sits with its fingers down the dough and knows exactly where the shoe is pressing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224121224	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224121226	Thank you very much for your good and constructive comments. I am pleased that the alternative would like to contribute. I want a very engaging approach to this work, not only in relation to the parties of the Folketing, but also for all the employees who are the ones who face and meet the bureaucracy in the public sector every day in the municipalities, regions, state institutions, etc. It is also in this way that I think we can get the best contributions and the best solutions on the table, i.e. by having an inclusive approach to the work of debureaucratisation in the public sector. Then I fully agree with the importance of a concerted effort, and with my remark that there should also be ownership for the individual ministries of the Resort, I do not think that the government is going to say that now everyone has to do theirs, and then we can sit back and put a notch, and then it will all work itself out. I fully agree that we need a concerted effort to coordinate, insists that we deliver results in some specific areas, but it is essential that there should also be an anchoring in each ministry, because employees can come up with quite a lot of good proposals for debureaucratisation in the public sector, but if afterwards there is not a ministry and a parliament that will deliver on what is being demanded, then we will be on the same page.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224121355	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224121357	Thank you for that answer. Then I would like to ask about the interaction with the Management Commission, because in my view and in the perspective of the Alternative, this whole issue of bureaucracy is also linked to how to lead in the public sector, how to lead confidently, so as to delegate to the employees, so that the employees really have time and opportunity to work with what they are trained for and which benefit the citizens, and not necessarily so much the bureaucratic part. So it's also about management. What is the Minister's view of the interaction with the Governing Commission proposed by the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20170224121435	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224121437	The government is very much in agreement that these things are linked, and the interaction will therefore also be seen from the public sector renewal programme that the government will be presenting.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224121449	The next question is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224121453	Thank you for the introduction and also thank you for at least accepting the idea. I fully agree with the Minister that this is a super-hard area and that a lot of people have tried. But that is why I would also point out that this proposal is just about instead of thinking top down so try to ask out in the world first what it is that things are connected. And following on from the question of social democracy in terms of supply and tendering, we sometimes have the problem that when we concentrate on tasks in isolation, it becomes really difficult to make comparisons with other areas. So how do we actually get some of those influences that are in everyday life, and at the same time get it all together and look at what needs to be done differently?
ParlaMint-DK_20170224121552	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224121554	From the government's point of view, we do not propose in any way that we should think top down, as was said, from the top down. On the contrary, we would like to invite that we get an approach to this work, involving the front workers in the public sector and thus inviting municipalities, regions to contribute. This is one of the things I think may be lacking a little in relation to the resolution here, namely that we ensure the coherence between the contribution we need from municipalities and regions, which, after all, manage the majority of the money we spend every year on public welfare, in combination with the need to have a more holistic approach to debureaucratisation in the public sector and not just focus on individual proposals. Not that it is not also productive and important, it is among other things. That is why we in the government are proposing a right of challenge in the public sector, but if we really have to move something seriously, it is not enough just to look at individual measures, then it requires that we look together in sector areas and that we also look at the dynamics that are across sectors in the public sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224121710	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224121712	There is a huge difference between the quality reporting that you can read and the one that you experience. The citizen who meets an employee who breaks the rules a little or shows a little civil disobedience often goes home and thinks: it was really an employee after my head. While the employee who refers to the fact that this is the way the rules are is often regarded as a pity, the employee does so in order to protect himself. I would like these to be the examples we really got on the table, so that the employees were allowed to report on what they were having problems with in everyday life that give rise to these challenges. And that presupposes that we have to ask: what is it that you are experiencing?
ParlaMint-DK_20170224121800	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224121802	I do not really believe that we are so divided, but in the Parliamentary Chamber it should seem as if we disagree sometimes because we come from different parties. Well, we're gonna have those examples on the table. That is also why I say very clearly that I want a very inclusive approach to all this work. Not only can this come from the Folketing, but it certainly cannot only come from the individual municipality or region. If we are to do something seriously about the debureaucratisation of the public sector and ensure a regulatory simplification, knowing that this is extremely difficult, we need a broad approach and we need everyone to contribute.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224121837	Thank you, Minister. Then I give the floor to Mr. Magnus Heunicke as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224121854	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the authors of the SF for putting the subject on the agenda here too, because it is a subject that has been part of the public debate for many years and has been updated, probably primarily because there is a real problem. When we discuss politics here in the Parliament, some think that problems are invented or non-existent. But you just have to spend a few hours out in reality, not least in public jobs, then you will find that there is a huge problem here. As rapporteur in this area, I have spent the last few months systematically meeting with trade unions and public employees from all over Denmark, and I have to say that the accounts of how much time they actually spend on schedules, control, documentation and bureaucracy, and how little time there is left to carry out the tasks they are put in the world to carry out, sometimes screaming to heaven. That is why there is such a need to do something about it. So thank you to the SF for having the courage to be the first to make a concrete proposal. We're several parties who have addressed this. We ourselves, on the part of the Social Democrats, have said to our party chairman, Mrs Frederiksen, that what is needed is for us to have the courage to keep our hands off. I heard the Minister earlier asked a little rhetorical about what that means. This really means that we must keep our hands off the day-to-day business that is out there, from the job you carry out, from the professionalism of the public sector. That's what's meant by keeping your hands off me. And that is the work that has led us as a party and me as rapporteur around the country and around to employees in all parts of the public sector. And after all those meetings, I've only been confirmed in one thing, and that's that the problem may be even bigger than you might have thought from the start. In the concrete proposal that the SF is launching today, there are three different elements. One is to try to reap the good experiences and build on the good experiences that are, in a simplification forum where you can, like, challenge a rule and ask whether it is relevant or whether you should do something about it. I actually think that sounds very much needed. But I also think it is worth listening to what the Minister says, namely that we need to look at it as a whole. Because experience is that it's not simple. When you have visited public workplaces and talked to employees and managers and citizens who use the service or welfare that is provided, you can see that it is not so simple to say that this and that thing just has to go away and then it just goes away. We must be honest and say that it is not. There's a reason these things have come in. It may be by a majority of the parliament, or it may be by a majority of a city council or a regional council, or it may be that there have been some public bosses who thought that it was actually quite clever if you did it and also just did it. And then we've got this huge knob shot. So I can easily see the idea of such a simplification forum, and I think that it can be part of the work that has to reduce the number of rules and the amount of administrative burdens in the public sector. But it can't be alone. The other elements of the SF's proposal are, frankly, a little nervous about throwing myself into at this stage. The proposal states that a number of committees from different welfare areas should be set up to review all rules and registration requirements, etc. I have just read Information today and they have actually tried to count up how it is going with the creation and, above all, with the fight against the number of committees, councils and boards and other matters. And you just have to say that fighting it is not going very well because more and more of them are coming. Since the present government came into existence alone, the number has increased, and there are now 366 such committees. There were 347 years ago, and now we are at 366, so we are going the wrong way again. It would be populist and short-sighted to say that all committees are bad and that we just have to do without advice from specialist experts, of course we should not. Commissions and advice can be set up with good purpose and can be quite relevant. But there is also a relevant consideration to consider, in relation to how many we need to set up these wild-growing committees, an issue that I do not think is really addressed here. Therefore, praise for the concrete proposal here and a great desire on our part to contribute both to the Minister and the Danish Parliament to further work. However, as the proposal stands here, we cannot vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224122417	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224122421	Thank you. The rapporteur speaks of the fact that the Social Democrats have thought of keeping their hands off it, and says quite frankly that the President says that one should have the courage to keep one's hands off everyday life and from the task-taking out there, and then I have to ask the rapporteur what it is meant to be. So, where is it that it has to be specifically? What sectors are these? Are we the ones to have the courage? What are the rules, what are the requirements that need to be removed? Well, what's in those fingers off? I am simply asking because I want to know. Because I think that when we look at this motion for a resolution, we need to know more about where the rules come from, where they come from, how they affect, and how we ensure legal certainty at the same time, and that citizens receive the services they need. So what are the demands we need to remove now that we have to keep our hands off?
ParlaMint-DK_20170224122514	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224122515	This does not only apply to the Danish Parliament, so we must also have the courage to seize in our own bosom here and ask: Where is it that we and we do it probably to the best of our own ability, and after what is the right thing to do, we think that we should regulate a daily life in an institution in Denmark? This applies to city councils and regional councils, which I mentioned, and to other parts of the public sector. We must take it seriously that we have a skilled, well-trained staff, both employees on the front and public bosses, who today do not get the space they deserve to carry out their task, which would be best for not only their job satisfaction, but certainly not least for those citizens who depend on it. That's what we mean by that. That space must be created, and therefore we must have the courage to say to each other that we must sometimes keep our hands off and have respect and confidence in the tasks carried out in the public sector by the managers and the front staff.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224122623	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224122625	Yes, I agree with the rapporteur on the good intentions to give more space to professionalism out there. But what can we expect from the Social Democrats? In other words, if there is a motion for a resolution, does the title 'Fings away' come up with concrete proposals as to what laws are to be made about? Is it in the area of employment? Is it in the social field? I mean, what is it that comes from the Social Democrats? Because I have seen that good ideas and suggestions on how this could be tackled are simply rejected, and then, like the Social Democrats' contribution to real simplification and debureaucratisation, we have to come up with something.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224122706	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224122707	We are in full swing with that process. That is why, as rapporteur in this area, I have been visiting the public sector, and it is not just me, it is also the party chairman, Mrs Mette Frederiksen, who was the one who launched the "Fingers Away" reform at our congress, who has been visiting the public sector, and we are still away with that work. I think this is too important for political teasing, and I do not regard the rapporteur's question as political teasing either. In other words, we have just heard a minister who has said that she is at work and will present something later, and we respect the fact that it is not possible to come here without further ado and say that, of course, it can be resolved. It is a problem that has grown and grown year after year. That's the way we feel about it. The first step is to recognise the problem. I think we have all recognized that. The second step is digging further into it all who know something about this subject. And the third step is of course to get some concrete things done, we hopefully as many of us as possible can agree to change.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224122758	The next question is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224122803	Thank you. A few years ago, the Social Democratic Mayor of Aarhus conducted an exercise in which, in connection with a savings round, it was said: we are now letting the citizens make some proposals. Within certain categories, proposals could be made, including: in the area of bureaucracy. Some of the proposals that came from citizens and from employees in this regard, I simply do not believe that as an administration one had seen for oneself. That was among other things. Such a thing as purchasing schemes that would in fact have ended up being both more expensive and more bureaucratic. How do we manage to get this information if we do not set up committees where citizens, employees and managers can speak out?
ParlaMint-DK_20170224122846	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224122847	That is a good point, and that is also why I said that it is quite clear. We have succeeded in doing so in the private sector. In fact, that is exactly what we have been doing where business owners and employees, trade unions and interest groups have come to the table and have said: this rule does not make much sense; it actually only causes problems; or it may give 10 per cent. But 90%. problems, and then it was perhaps an idea to make it better for all parties by dropping it. It has thus been a success that was introduced by the previous government. It has been a success, and what I read in that part of the SF's proposal is that this is what you will try to continue with and try to spread to the public sector. I really meant what I said. I think that is a positive step and I think it can be one element. It cannot stand alone and, as the Minister said, we also need to see the whole task of the public sector as a whole. And then my experience is that it is difficult to find specific areas where you can say: why do you do that? In other words, it is not idiots who have developed the public sector either here in the Folketing or in the municipalities or in the public sector in the institutions. But sometimes it's just too much knob shot, and that's where we need the will and the courage to go the other way. I think that such a committee can be quite excellent, but it just cannot stand alone.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224123008	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224123010	It's just a comment, because it's never any harm to wonder. I also think that a great many questions will be asked which do not have an immediate answer to, but I also think that one might be able to go deeper if one dared sit down and analyze some of these comments that I think one would get.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224123029	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224123029-2	Yeah, probably. It's a little baroque that the biggest threat you can bring to Denmark is to say: okay, then we will work according to the rules. Then everyone says, "Stop it, everything goes wrong, if you start working according to the rules, you're crazy, we can't do that at all. That should be a little thoughtful. It may be that the rules that have been made here too are wrong and too pervasive and extensive. It should not be the case that we have to compromise on all kinds of rules in order to make everyday life and tasks work together.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224123105	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. The next one on the platform is sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224123112	Thank you. This is an interesting debate and, of course, it is difficult to say anything against the intentions. The aim of reducing the number of unnecessary rules and administrative burdens for public sector employees is probably not something that could be opposed. Because if you do something that is unnecessary, you should not do it, it is a waste of resources. But then you can ask yourself: what is unnecessary? Is it necessary to register that you have dosed medication or that you have changed a wound or documented that you have had a conversation with Peter in the job centre as planned? I guess you could just assume that the work has been done as planned, if there is nothing else that has been documented. The proposal provides for a relatively bureaucratic process in relation to assessing rules etc., and that is not the way I see it. The proposal also says: "The simplification of the rules and the abolition of unnecessary documentation requirements must allow for a more democratic and citizen-friendly public sector. This will pave the way for a confidence-building culture that allows well-trained professional staff to focus on the right solutions in dialogue with citizens about their wishes and needs rather than focusing on procedures and documentation of their own work. Well, I guess that's how we all wish it would be. But what is the prerequisite for having such a confidence-building culture? Is it not that there is no political demand for evidence of cases and cases? I don't think the problem is really the unnecessary rules. I think we could actually figure out how to remove them. And you can say that there you have to challenge all the rules and remove those you could not argue for should be there. But somewhere in here we all, and politicians all over the country, have helped to create this culture where it has to be documented when there are unexpected events. If you imagine a leg being amputated because there has been infection in a wound that home care has had to change, then the press will come and ask us politicians whether that is okay and what you as a responsible politician will do about it. Then they say quickly that we must have looked into it, we must find out who did what and when what happened, and we must find out who was responsible. Then we go back to the documentation and woe to those who have not documented what has been done or what has not been done. That is why a great deal more is really being documented than is strictly necessary, because what if someone were to come and ask for it? Therefore, we cannot create the confidence that the proposal talks about by setting up groups to look at laws and regulations, even groups without politicians. No, if we are to do that, we need to start with ourselves • politicians who have to consider whether we can choose to express confidence in the employees, even when they have not documented everything in both head and rear. The day we can do that, we can start to build trust. Therefore, I would like to say that the Danish People's Party supports the intention to abolish unnecessary rules and administrative burdens, and we also very much welcome the Minister's invitation to have a dialogue on how to proceed with this. However, DF cannot support the proposal that we have before us, with the content and the way in which it is expressed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224123418	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next speaker is Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224123433	When the proposers say that there is a need for systematic efforts to reduce the number of rules and administrative burdens in the public sector, I can only agree entirely with them. We need a systematic effort and we need to talk to each other about what it is like to do the best we can. And I welcome the fact that more and more people agree that we need to look at the scope of rules and that we need to look at how we can reduce bureaucracy. But in this motion for a resolution there are three methods: a simplification forum as a counterpart to the Enterprise Forum; the creation of a number of committees with all kinds of representatives other than politicians; and the existence of quantitative objectives. Some of this may be a good thing, but the question is whether these are the right tools and whether we get the shovel under the problems with the funds proposed here. I think we need much better detection, for example.: Where are the rules coming from? Where is the bureaucracy? I also think we need, as the Minister said, to think more holistic in relation to the overall public sector, i.e. municipality, region and state. And above all, I find it problematic of the absence of the responsibilities of politicians in relation to a systematic effort to reduce the number of rules and administrative burdens in the public sector. It is often us who make the rules. It is often and often we who cause bureaucracy to arise out there. Before this debate began, I overheard the question debate about what we could do to reduce the number of break-ins in Denmark, and there was no end to what our good colleagues, the rapporteurs in that area, had of proposals for new rules that we could introduce. So we have to talk about what we really do when we push each other to make new rules; what kind of bureaucracy it creates out there. So the most important thing, I think, in our further discussion with each other about this motion for a resolution and, at the very least, in the effort to reduce the level of regulation and bureaucracy, is to find out how we take responsibility ourselves and how the Folketing can take the lead in this effort rather than just leave it to the others out there to say: then they have to find out. I am very pleased that the Minister stressed that the government should be involved and that we should look at the responsibility of each minister in the various areas of the region. I believe that this is absolutely essential in terms of achieving concrete results in this area. So I look forward to discussions with each other and with the government on how best to achieve this good intention in the resolution. And just to make it clear: this is both about the pleasure of the employees and the space for their professional skills; it is about the service to the citizen who needs help in some way; and then it is about taxpayers' money, how we use the resources optimally. So there are a lot of interests in breaking down some of the bureaucracy that is out there, but we need to discuss deeper with each other how best we do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224123830	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Next in line, sir. Henrik Dahl as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224123841	My party has given me the official title of rapporteur for debureaucratisation, and I think I am the only one who is quite officially and, if that is not the case, of course I apologise to those who are also. However, I am, of course, very, very pleased that the SF is tabling a motion for a resolution on debureaucratisation. As Mrs Kjer Hansen also mentioned in her rapporteur's speech, it is high time that Parliament recognised its very great responsibility for red tape rather than blaming the government, the central administration, local officials and the notorious organisation Djøf, of which I myself am a member. However, because I am a debureaucratic rapporteur, I have also worked for a very long time on the subject, and I have some professional comments on the proposal. If the motion for a resolution were quite right: before the end of the parliamentary year 2016-17, the Danish Parliament is instructing the government to make a systematic effort to reduce the number of rules and administrative burdens in the public sector, and then there was nothing more in it than the last sentence. On the one hand, I would say that we, as a parliament, should simply set in motion, but on the other hand, I would also say that there is what makes it a less good idea, in my view, to support the motion for a resolution in the literal form that lies here, is paragraphs 1 and 2. Whether precisely a simplification forum is the right way to look at how to get rid of bureaucracy, I think, for example. is one thing you have to look into. I myself was involved in writing a bureaucracy report for my party last year, and it made it clear to me that a whole range of methods must be used if bureaucracy is to be seriously eliminated, and it seems to me that we may be being locked up a little too firmly if we are to say, as in paragraph 1, that it should be precisely a simplification forum and nothing else. Such a more systematic work on how unnecessary bureaucracy actually arises, because we should not forget that there is also very sensible bureaucracy; it is sensible bureaucracy that triggers legal certainty, as Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl also mentioned that I am not sure that setting up committees in the way outlined is the way forward. Then, for the sake of good order, I would like to say that paragraph 3, namely the setting of quantitative targets for reducing administrative burdens, is a good objective, which I believe will actually work in practice and will be good, because it would then be possible to keep up with one another. But the short of the long one is that this is a really good proposal whose spirit and whose first sentence we can support. That is why I have the very sincere hope that the end of this debate, and I propose this to the authors of the motion for a resolution, might be a report which the parties jointly work closely with and can join together. This could be a very fine first step towards the recognition by the Folketing of its responsibility for bureaucracy, as God knows, and it could also be a very good starting point for Parliament to have enhanced cooperation with the Minister for Public Innovation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224124315	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. The next is Mrs Josephine Fock as rapporteur for the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224124324	Thank you. I would also like to start by saying a thousand thanks to the SF for addressing this very important agenda. This is an incredibly complex issue, as the Minister said. I personally have worked very, very much with this area, also in my previous job, where I sat as head of OAO, where we helped to make a tripartite agreement with the S-SF-R government on a confidence reform that resulted in seven principles that were right, really good, in relation to employees, managers, etc. out locally should address all of this issue. I just have to admit, it hasn't moved enough. We still have this problem with the fact that there is too much bureaucracy, that there are employees in the public sector who spend their time in a completely horrible way, because they have to sit and make indifferent documentation of time spent, fill out questionnaires, etc. etc., which takes the time away from what they are actually trained to do, namely take care of the citizens. So the personal reflection I have made is that it is now time for the Folketing and the government to take a serious responsibility by taking the lead on this solution. That is why I was very pleased with the initiative that the Left, the Liberal Alliance and the Alternative took to get a parliamentary committee on debureaucratisation up and running. It was not meant to be the only solution, under any circumstances, but as a way of trying to move forward in this very complicated area. This has not happened, and that is why I welcome this bill again very much, because then we will have the opportunity to debate it. When I look specifically at SF's proposal, I believe that just as a parliamentary committee on debureaucratisation cannot be the whole solution, the SF's proposal cannot be the whole solution, but I see it as part of the solution. For what is really positive in SF's proposal is that employees and managers are given the opportunity to sit and work on what it really is for some unnecessary rules that are being pulled over their heads. However, we need to discuss public sector governance, and I think that is absent from the SF's proposal. I would now like to say to the President-in-Office that I do not have a watch here, so I find it difficult to keep up, but the President must tell me when I have spoken too long There are two minutes left.' Is there two minutes left? Great. I would like to mention some issues with regard to governance: how do we combine hierarchical targeting, which is a natural consequence of our policy objectives and priorities, with local governance, which allows managers and employees to have a free business space to organise daily life? How do we combine clear national targets with local targets? How do we balance rules involving control and documentation with confidence in the local trading room? How do we balance the fact that we want a practice based on what works with what should allow local space for development? These are fundamental issues which I think we need to take seriously. As far as governance is concerned, if we are politicians, we also have the problem of how we, as politicians at all levels, avoid making general rules as a solution to local problems. How do we keep our hands off, as the Social Democrats put it? And how do we really envisage a modern administration, which should be able to go from being an expert to being a facilitator for what is happening locally, what is happening in the interaction between employees and citizens? How do we ensure that the manager becomes a role model that ensures coherence between words and actions, and how do we ensure that the manager also has the freedom to act and manage trust-based? Because we know that when you manage trust-based, you give the employees the space and the opportunity to actually exercise their skills. How do we involve the shop steward, so that the shop steward may also be much more responsible for some of the management's areas, thus helping to spot problems? And last but not least, how do we ensure that we involve the employees so that they can be involved in the solutions that we know benefit the citizen? These should be my introductory remarks. Sorry, President-in-Office of the Council, the last thing I want to say is that, as the LA rapporteur also said, I would suggest that we commit each other to continue working on this in committee, so that we really commit the government to and stop them from getting something out of this work, because that is what God needs.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224124900	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. The next is Mrs Sanne Bjørn as rapporteur for the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224124911	Thank you. It is a very sympathetic proposal to simplify the public sector and, as we all know and as the debate has also been marked so far, it is not so easy. If any of us had the solution like this right now, we wouldn't be sitting here debating that, I don't think. However, I and the Radical Left would like to contribute to the debate and help to give a signal as to how we can simplify and debureaucratise the public sector. The motion for a resolution and the three elements are very sympathetic and the intention is very much in agreement with the Radical Left and we are always very willing to go on this agenda. The proposers also mention new public management and governance culture, and, to me, these are some of the key elements that are changing around the public sector. There is to me a different view of it than there was just a few years ago, and the battle with new public management is under way. We are very concerned about quality objectives, and we believe that if we are to make the complicated simpler, and if we are to implement a real culture of confidence, we must also recognise that the public needs to follow quality and that the Minister also always needs to take action and show action when mistakes are made. The two elements can very quickly work against each other. If you set simple quality targets, you should also be willing to say that each institution can carry out quality in different ways. I would like to make a few comments on the various elements. The simplification forum, which is one of the elements, is a counterpart to the Enterprise Forum, and it has certainly worked as intended, and we are very much in favour of it being created in the public domain. As far as the other two proposals are concerned, we are a little bit more concerned about them. It is very good to put employees and managers to look at documentation requirements. That is a good intention, but which municipalities are the ones to look at? Because they're so different. And do the proposers then think that it should end with state demands, which are the same for everyone? I have to say that I think this part of the proposal sounds very bureaucratic. If we really want to simplify the rules, we must start politically where the responsibility for the public institutions is, in other words, in the municipalities and the regions primarily. In the area of children, for example, municipal councils could set a very simple framework for each institution to fill. That was among other things. What was meant by the reform of schools, namely to simplify the quality objectives, and then I do not mention the other things about school reform in any case. With regard to the third point on quality objectives, I am a little more curious to hear how the proposers imagine it being implemented. Should an average target be set, and what about the municipalities or regions that are above or below? I have to say again that the intention is very good, but I think it sounds like you want it to be the same for everyone. And again it is a bit too bureaucratic and cumbersome a solution. There's also some economy in this. When you set up committees, it costs a whole lot of money, and I do not really believe that this is the way we should go. There are already a great many administrations that come up with savings proposals, which have a great deal of focus on the need to hit the administrative area and not the bourgeois area, and that is an incredibly difficult distinction, because it often ends up saying that a teacher, for example, has to deal with this problem. should sit and work with goals for the individual child, the fact is that it is actually an administrative task. So isn't it close to the citizen, or what is it you're supposed to do about it? I usually say that quality is a function of time, professionalism and management, i.e. the public employee must have time for the task, must use his professional skills and must be under a management which organises and structures everyday life appropriately in the task solution that is available. Or as my colleague Marianne Jelved put it the other day in Fagbladet Folkeskolen: Management out of school, school management into school, school boards on each cadastre. In other words, the individual school, the individual day care centre, the individual care centre should have the opportunity to set a qualitative framework. This cannot be done by describing here anything other than the overall quality objectives. We imagine more diversity and freedom in the public sector, and we can agree with the first part of the simplification forum, but not directly with the other two.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224125412	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. I do not see the Conservative rapporteur in the Chamber, and that is why we move on to the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224125424	First of all, I would like to thank you for the positive reception of the proposal. I think that this is a really important issue which I myself have been working on for many years, and that is of course also a factor in the proposal being put forward right now. I very much welcome the fact that the various rapporteurs also support the fact that, with regard to this bureaucracy, we simply have to find out what we are talking about. I also understand that there may be many different versions of what this means, and that is why we in the SF have not actually made it clear that this proposal must be implemented in a very specific way, but we are in fact proposing that we can also have a debate afterwards on how to fill in the framework. I have also listened to the fact that many rapporteurs have expressed this today, so that this was a prerequisite for perhaps agreeing to continue working on something. First of all, we put forward the proposal because we would very much like to create the framework for a systematic reduction in the number of rules and administrative burdens. First of all, it must make room for a more democratic and citizens-involved public sector, as we have also written, and it must pave the way for a culture of confidence that enables well-trained professional staff to focus on the right solutions, in dialogue with citizens about their wishes and needs, rather than focusing on procedures and documentation of their own efforts. And I guess that's what's really important. We know it's a tough exercise, maybe because we often get to focus very much on the symptoms and very rarely get to take that spade thing deeper, which may just reveal the disease. I also allow myself to contribute a little bit of the experience I have with me in my back pocket, and where I think it is really hard to identify the disease. We are all familiar with the fact that we have to ensure that we have a uniform quality and that we have to ensure equal treatment of citizens, and this has often been the reason why we have made many different kinds of standards. A few years ago I had a conversation with a ticket inspector who told me that he had faced an elderly woman who had shown her year pass safely, who unfortunately had expired the day before; she had just not discovered it herself. Behind the year pass there were years of used year cards, and in the past the inspector would have shown reasonable conduite compared to the older woman, who was a faithful and regular paying customer, but new rules had deprived him of that opportunity. So he was forced to issue a tax of DKK 750. And it didn't help much that the inspector could explain that the elderly woman could complain about the decision at the meeting of the administration, which was at the other end of the city. The inspector explained that he clearly sensed how the other passengers on the bus were outraged and openly considered him unreasonable. It was a new feeling, because usually he was actually used to fellow passengers being allies and thought it was really okay that the controllers were issuing the fees as long as it was within reasonable limits. What the controller experienced was, in fact, that the management did not have confidence that he could handle the problem himself, and passengers saw the controller as a clean money machine without brains and without confidence in good and reasonable explanations. I think that the report is an example of how, when we do some things, it has some spill-over effects, in other words that it is going to rub off on the way we work. And it can also be transferred to other areas of work. For example, it may be the caseworker who should help a desperate citizen in an acute situation where it would make sense to do something other than standardized rules prescribes that it would be more durable and perhaps also a cheaper solution. Or it may be the social and health worker who encounters a desperate citizen, but where rigid work schedules prevent her from spending time creating security and perhaps doing something other than the work plan. These are just examples that show that trust makes a difference, that the experience of reasonableness makes a difference. It reduces complaints and administration, because the citizen is a satisfied and happy citizen and happy citizens are safe citizens. You can almost hear our new Minister for the Elderly say: yes, it is about management. And yes, it does, but why doesn't the leader just do the right thing? This is because the nearest management also has something to report in different excelarchs. But there may be more to come for. Every year, you also sit in ministries and manage many pools in which municipalities and regions can apply for participation, and it spends a lot of time on municipalities and regions, which you might have spent on social workers, school teachers and other places where you need resources. I have here at Christiansborg a great many political colleagues, all of whom really want to make a difference to the citizens, but even here we can sometimes encounter barriers, for example. Because a good proposal cannot be placed unilaterally in one resort, which we might also be able to get into with this proposal. But if debureaucratisation is to succeed, we must think very carefully and also out of Christiansborg and out of the box, I think. That is, first and foremost, what the proposal is about. I am also looking forward to having a good discussion in committee on how we might translate some of the declarations of intent into the proposal. Furthermore, I should like to welcome the Enhedslisten and say that they also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224130109	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs, Internal Affairs and the Committee on Children's Rights, and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224130128	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 28 February 2017. I give the floor to the author of the question, Mrs Christine Antorini, the Social Democratic Party, for reasons of justification. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224130210	Thank you for the opportunity to give us a brief reason why, in the red block, we have chosen to raise a question debate on the basis of an open and curious question about what the Minister of Education and Education and Research wants to do to increase social mobility through education. When we have chosen to ask a joint question, it is because increasing social mobility has been a fundamental value which we have actually had the impression that there has been a desire to maintain as part of what the Danish welfare society could lift and here education has played a key role. That is why we would like to have the discussion across the board from primary and secondary education to higher education, because things are connected precisely in terms of how we organise the courses so that they can best accommodate children and young people with the background they may have, and that also applies to the forms of teaching, learning environments etc., we know that we are making a difference in giving them equal opportunities in life. One of the things we are a little worried about is that we can see that among other things. The Left party, which has previously supported the creation of increased social mobility through education, is backtracking. This is true in discussions about the SU, where one is not so concerned about whether it helps to increase social mobility, and it is also true in relation to higher education that the Left has taken the lead in removing it as an objective in the development contracts of higher education. But we are also concerned about the fact that the Liberal Alliance is now in the Ministry of Education, because it has been well known that the Liberal Alliance has not been particularly concerned about using, if we are to put it that way, the state and therefore also the various educational paths, whether it has been the primary school in the municipalities or the self-serving youth education or higher education, to play an active role in breaking the negative social heritage. It has been said that it was an individual responsibility. Therefore, with this question debate, we would like to discuss more in principle what is the foundation of the Danish welfare society and what actually makes us have incredibly good opportunities to help children and young people, so that they get one's life chances, if we also think about how we organise our education.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224130430	Thank you to the rapporteur for the questions. Then we shall proceed to the answer, and there are two ministers who will take part in that part. And the first to speak is the Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224130449	Thank you for the question. This is an extremely relevant issue and it is a crucial challenge for the education system to contribute to increasing social mobility. The government has also dedicated an independent chapter in the government base for the very purpose that all young people should have a good start. Negative social heritage must not be an obstacle to the individual in life, and education must help to ensure this. The vast majority of young people take an education and do well, but no matter what parameters we measure, we can see that social backgrounds have a significant impact on how well the individual learner is doing. This applies both to attitude characters, results in national tests and PISA studies, and to the transition to and implementation of youth education. Proper professional qualifications and a transparent education system are essential for ensuring social mobility, and parental involvement is also an important parameter. The government gives priority to early action in day care, primary and upper secondary education. Early efforts can help break a bad pattern. It is therefore crucial to note that in the spring of 2017, the government will present a comprehensive proposal on better quality in day-to-day offers, which include: will focus on the prevention of negative social heritage. With a strengthened early effort, children are better placed to do well here and now and in their further life cycle. This creates the best conditions for training to take up their share. Recent reforms of primary, vocational and upper secondary education have all had as a central aim the reduction of the importance of social backgrounds for professional achievements. Based on the reforms, I and my ministry are constantly working to ensure that we also achieve that objective, and I follow developments closely. I do, among other things. through the follow-up research programmes which are to monitor the effects of the reforms on an ongoing basis, because it is important to take action if we can see any problems. For example: I am particularly concerned that we are achieving the objective of the vocational training reform that more people should have vocational training. This is crucial, also for social mobility, and it is a hard nut to crack, so we must put extra emphasis on that. The government has just concluded an agreement with the Danish People's Party to supplement the training preparation assessment with a practical dimension. The assessment of practical competences must complement and not replace the assessment of the academic position and of personal and social competences. The involvement of external experts and practitioners who have to qualify for a model must take place before any legislative proposal is made. In addition, following on from the tripartite agreement, a number of initiatives will be proposed aimed at strengthening the business-oriented in education. It acts among other things. on enterprises and vocational schools as part of the open school, the 9th-class voluntary bridge building and the possibility of 6th- and 7th-class vocational training. The bill is expected to be submitted by the end of March 2017. I have a general focus on strengthening education so as to promote the knowledge of children and young people in the broadest sense. This requires freedom to exercise the professional profession, which is at the heart of our education. This requires the primary school to become the school of the people, where the involvement and support of parents are a natural part of everyday life; not least, it requires strong learning communities where there is peace, class management and focus on the core, professionalism in the broad sense and well-being. I will therefore work for more freedom in our education so that we can create the framework for teachers, parents and pupils to be able to raise the professional skills of everyone together. I am discussing that promise, among other things. together with the parties around the primary school, in the Quality Forum for the Folkeskole, where we will work together in the near future for concrete improvements in relation to good education, good children's life, good working life and parental involvement. The challenge of negative social inheritance is not new. After many years of effort, this is still an unresolved problem. We therefore need to think again, and the government does. The government will set aside a student boost pool of 500 million. kr. over three years to encourage schools to improve their efforts towards the weakest professional pupils. At the same time, the government will strengthen the efforts of young people who never receive youth education. A group of experts will shortly come up with recommendations for better ways for youth education. As a follow-up to this, I would like, among other things, to say something. make suggestions on how more young people receive youth education, choose the right education for the first time, and choose training that leads them on to jobs or education. The challenge of increased social mobility is therefore at the heart of my work as Minister of Education, both in terms of the long and tough features of the reforms of recent years and in terms of major new initiatives where new thinking is needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224131013	Thank you, Minister. Then I give the floor to the next Minister for Education and Research. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224131031	The possibility of taking a higher education course is of great importance for social mobility in Denmark. Higher education gives the individual greater freedom and better opportunity to create a good life. Everyone must have the opportunity to unfold their talents, even regardless of their backgrounds, because we as a community benefit from this as a country. Therefore, the government attaches absolute importance to the fact that we have free and equal access to higher education in Denmark. We support this with tax-financed higher education and education support for all students. Although young people in Denmark have good opportunities to take a higher education course, we still see inappropriate patterns. Students from unskilled homes are e.g. Under-represented in higher education and, as the Minister of Education has just explained, the government will take early action in the education system. We must insist that all children and young people should have the basic skills that determine their future opportunities in life. At higher education institutions, we must set the same high professional requirements and expectations for all young people. Teachers should be able to expect all students to have the professional qualifications needed to start a higher education course and that all students can work independently and disciplined with the material. The students should also be able to expect their fellow students to have the professional qualifications to contribute to the common educational environment. High demands must, of course, be complemented by openness towards different students and a focus on helping new students get started. This is true during the course of the study and at the time of the recording, and I am thinking of something more than the character requirement. The institutions may, for example: use alternative forms of recording as different tests and conversations. They have good and really exciting experiences with this at University of Southern Denmark. Higher education institutions must support young people getting a good start in study life, becoming a good part of a good study environment, for example. through courses in study technology, study groups and mentoring courses, and this also applies to students from foreign students. It is also my clear impression that higher education institutions are committed to the integration and retention of students. Integration and retention activities can be targeted, which will often be common sense. Conversely, it is not common sense to let special efforts override the profession. Knowledge acquisition must be the main focus of higher education. Only with high-quality education can we challenge all students to unfold their talent, and this must be done in a meritocratic way. Strong educational environments with professional excellence are an advantage for everyone, including students from foreign educational homes, which is why we must focus on the core task of providing high-quality education that matches the needs of the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224131349	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Then we move on to the debate, and the first speaker is the rapporteur for the questions, Mrs Christine Antorini, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224131403	Thank you. It is well documented that the social background of children makes a world different from having equal opportunities in life. For example: people from the low social classes die on average 10 years earlier than others. The risk of becoming unemployed is much greater and the chance of completing an education is considerably lower. In the recently published book, entitled Social Inheritance and Social Injuries, edited by Professor Niels Ploug, the research of the past decades has been picked up in relation to how people with different social backgrounds are doing, among other things. in relation to the education system, and how the socially important institutions such as kindergarten and primary school can deal with children's social and cultural differences. It cannot be reduced to the responsibility of parents alone, such as parents. The Liberal Alliance believes and has spoken. The social inequality is going through from the birth of children, and if you take the children's perspective, it is not at all right just to note that it is the responsibility of the parents and then leave the children to, yes, the social heritage. Fortunately, we can actually do something political about it if we want to. Now it is perhaps not so surprising that it is precisely the Liberal Alliance which is somewhat indifferent to social mobility as a political task. However, it is worrying if the Left, as a party that has been concerned with the cohesion of the country, has also begun to move along that path. For the Social Democratic Party, it has always been a goal to create a society that offers all equal opportunities, regardless of its background. We simply do not agree with the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior of the Liberal Alliance, who said that he does not think Denmark is a country where inequality is a problem worth dealing with. On the other hand, we believe that this is the view of the Social Democratic Party. The Liberal Alliance has consistently resisted taking a political responsibility to give all equal opportunities to fully fill their potentials, including: through primary school. The Liberal Alliance was opposed to the primary school reform's aim of increasing social mobility, and the party did everything in its power to prevent the same objective from entering the secondary school reform. In the discussion on state aid for education, the Liberal Alliance, like the Left and the Conservatives, thinks that it is quite fine to cut back on the SU and replace it with more loans, although borrowing for education means something for both admission and apostasy, especially for young people with low-skilled parents, which among other things. The research institution KORA has shown. But there has also been a shift in the left, which has now put the broad goal of increased social mobility into the grave. In May 2016, the government presented ten social objectives for social mobility, but they were reduced to action aimed at children and young people who have received preventive action or who have been placed. Away is the broad effort to develop a welfare society that helps to compensate for social and class inequality and to provide all equal opportunities regardless of their background. When Mr. Esben Lunde Larsen from the Left was appointed Minister of Education and Research briefly, as one of the first, he removed the goal of the higher education development contract, which was called "Increased social mobility" more talents in gambling. He thought that was nonsense and, as he said, the Left had long been opposed to social policy in education policy. But it will actually have enormous consequences for the Denmark that we are proud of, if the ideological turn of the government continues, it will provide good opportunities for everyone. On the contrary, we need to develop day care institutions, schools, youth education and higher education so that they have a framework, educational forms and learning environments that are better at improving the skills of all children and young people regardless of their background. This is among other things. Therefore, the primary school must offer opportunities for help with homework and professional immersion and develop varied forms of teaching with the combination of theory and internship. That is why there has to be movement during the day, both because it is healthy and makes children more motivated and wiser, and because it is important to open the school to the outside world with association and sport, businesses, etc. to get a real school. This is all that the supporting education gives time for, and thus provides a better framework for developing a primary school for all. This also means, even though it is sometimes forgotten in the debate, that better opportunities are given to carry out courses for particularly talented children and that they can be able to become even more skilled. The primary school must be a good school for all the children of the people, and it requires active political support and goals for which school it should be, including the ability to increase social mobility. Where the bourgeois are wrong is precisely when they fall short of thinking that it is only a personal responsibility if you do not do well. But class differences still exist and economic inequality is inextricably linked to unequal opportunities. Therefore, the Social Democratic Party, the Radicals, the SF, the Alternative and the Enhedslisten will put forward the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament urges the government to maintain the goal of allowing everyone to become as capable as possible regardless of social background through the education system. This applies both as a purpose in the education laws and as tools, for example. in the case of development contracts in higher education, the organisation of SU, etc. It has been a foundation in the Danish welfare society to develop primary, secondary and higher education which helps to increase social mobility in society, among other things. with educational forms that give all children and young people the opportunity to develop the potentials they did not have with them from home. There is still a need to develop the Danish welfare society, so it helps to compensate for social and class inequality. We need all the talents in Danish society, and the education system must help to support all the way through. • V 48). I regret, moreover, that the Enhedslisten has not had the opportunity to be here, but they are, of course, behind the overall proposal for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224131936	Thank you. The proposal for adoption will then be included in the further debate. There are a few brief comments, and the first questioner is Mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224131948	If we assume that parents have an honest profession, what is the fundamental problem of children becoming the same as their parents?
ParlaMint-DK_20170224132004	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224132006	There is no fundamental problem in children becoming the same as their parents, but it must also be the case that children see the perspective that they can go other ways, and that they may discover that and that is one of the things that the school also aims to have potentials, abilities and talents that they might not have discovered or been backed up from home. One of the school's important tasks is precisely to give the broad perspective and unfold all the potential children have to become as skilled as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224132030	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224132034	I assume that the rapporteur is aware of the recent, very thorough study of the United States and Denmark by the Rockwool Foundation, which shows that the Danish SU does not seem to have any effect whatsoever in terms of breaking social mobility if compared with the United States. What is the rapporteur's comment on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170224132055	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224132101	After all, there has been a great discussion about the SU and its ability to break the negative social heritage. I think that if one is to be fair to the many different studies that have been carried out, there has been incredibly little research in Denmark. Of course, one wonders when, after all, the SU takes up so much in relation to the financial costs of an education system as well. I will therefore refer to what the research institute KORA has examined in relation to Danish relations with the SU, and that is that the more it is planned to borrow from the beginning and that is what has been in the original initiative of the Left, namely that from day one, when you started a higher education, you should have to start a higher education course, because you can see that young people who come from home, where you do not have an educational tradition, have also been brought up with the fact that you have to earn the money first before you go out and borrow. So it hits awkwardly for the sole reason that it prevents them from dared to take the step to higher education if there are more loans.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224132146	The next question is Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224132151	I would like to try to create a slightly more appropriate atmosphere in this Chamber today. One Friday afternoon, I find it a little annoying that Mrs Christine Antorini seems a little upset. In fact, I think that the Social Democrats and the Left together have made a lot of good agreements in this area, which is helping to limit these challenges. I would therefore really like the rapporteur to confirm something: is it not true that if, for example, we do not have the right to do so? If we take the reform of primary school, can we say that the Left has helped to ensure that there is a focus on getting something done about these things? And for that matter, we will soon be putting forward a proposal in the area of day-to-day offers, which will also help to lift these things.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224132246	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224132250	I would like to use this as an opportunity to thank you for the good cooperation that has been and is with the Left on education policy. And I hope this also emerged from the start of my rapporteur's speech, that is to say that it is precisely some of the things that have put Denmark together that we have, across the right and left, actually had an ambition and have carried out important reforms to increase social mobility. That is, of course, why we are concerned when there is an expansion of the government with a party that has had the aim of not using the state and, hence, the education system to increase social mobility. I am so glad that the Minister is now saying something else. This makes us a little more secure compared to what we really think is a foundation under the Danish welfare society, namely that everyone should be able to see that you have the opportunity to have your dreams fulfilled. So I would like to thank the Left for stressing that we have just come together to ensure that everyone is as capable as possible, regardless of their social background. In fact, we have done so in most educational contexts, and the Socialists hope it will continue. That is why we have been a little saddened by the fact that the former research minister from the Left removed it as an objective in relation to higher education.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224132353	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224132355	It is a good thing that if we can create the a little more pleasant up to the weekend atmosphere, because I know very well that all the measures that we have actually been involved in were written into the government base too, of course some of the things where we are now proposing how we can help to break these trends. I think everyone, including the Social Democrat rapporteur, will agree that in recent years we have found that the sooner we put these things into practice, the better. That is why my appeal should perhaps be here at the end of the day, that is why I would like to see the Social Democratic Party, too, supporting some of the proposals and, for that matter, the initiative that we are making, including by the government, here in the next few months.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224132448	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224132451	It has always been the concern of the Social Democrats to be involved in all the important reforms, agreements that support a welfare society that offers equal opportunities for all, and of course we will also enter into negotiations on a future day-off system. Perhaps we will then appeal a little backwards, and we also hope that the government will continue with the broad cooperation that exists on the reform of primary schools, the reform of secondary schools, the reform of vocational training, and which, I hope, will also come on higher education. I am saying this because, unfortunately, the government has chosen to make a unilateral agreement with the Danish People's Party on the so-called education readiness assessment for young people in the eighth grade, where we have to say that we are very puzzled in the contract circle, which applies in this context, the Social Democracy, the SF and the Radicals, why they have chosen to do it without inviting us to a discussion on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224132538	The next question is Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224132542	Thank you. Now that we have the debate on social mobility, I would really like to hear the rapporteur's comments on the fact that it is often like a vertical line like this whether there are any value differences between taking a craftsman's training and taking an academic higher education.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224132600	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224132602	In no way, on the contrary, I wish there were far more young people, to whom very motivating parents • because we know that it means a lot to the educational path they choose • said that you know what, stop, how good you are at mathematics, and you have technical knowledge and are good at building and constructing; we think you should try to consider taking an education in the vocational education; it may be like carpenter, it may be like carpenter; it may be within a number of other educations, instead of that automatic answer being that if you for example. is good at mathematics, to construct etc., then you have to take a higher education. So no, we are actually very concerned that we have a system of education that motivates the whole range of education and thus potentials and dreams that one may have.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224132644	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224132646	Following on from that, I would like to know whether the rapporteur does not also agree that it must be just as commendable and something that we must work as hard for academic children to take a craftsman's training as vice versa.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224132657	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224132658	I fully agree with that, but when we are concerned about the concept of social mobility, it is about the many children and young people, such as the elderly. I don't get an education at all. If you take young people under the age of 30 who are on cash benefits today, it is unfortunately they have in common that nine out of ten of them have no more than the primary school's final examination if they have even received the primary school's final examination. This means that their opportunities in life are really difficult because we are an educational country where it is important that you have the opportunity to train, and it is incredibly difficult if you only have the primary school's graduation test and even perhaps a poor graduation test and a poor experience with the school. So social mobility is giving everyone an opportunity, including those children and young people.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224132736	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224132748	Thank you. When I looked at the question text: what will ministers do to increase social mobility through education? Then I wondered a little what it is that is meant. Because what does social mobility mean? It is often argued that if parents do not have an academic education, the children must take one; then we have social mobility. However, with the needs we have on the labour market today, I am surprised that we do not have as much emphasis on those who come from academic families becoming craftsmen. In this context, I would like to welcome the new education and training assessment presented yesterday, because the crucial thing cannot be to climb high into an academic tree, but to give all young people the best opportunities to make the best possible use of their abilities. After all, it should not be about education snobbery, that it is finer and better to take an academic education. It has to be that everyone has to have equal opportunities to be exactly what they can and want to be. There are more people today than ever who are going to receive higher education, but nothing has happened particularly with the likelihood of breaking the social heritage and, as far as I am aware, there is scientific evidence to say that if the social heritage is to be broken, then it must be done in the very early years. In other words, what we are really talking about today is crèches, kindergartens and perhaps primary and, to some extent, upper secondary education. But then there is no indication that we can create any significant effect. It also makes me think a little that in this debate we are having right now, the Minister for Education is really irrelevant. Yes, I'm sorry to the Minister. There are other themes where the Minister is relevant, I would just like to say, but right here we have to focus on the early years, that is. long before young people come close to higher education. If the education system is to do something, it is to a large extent in primary and secondary education, and therefore the UPV also comes in as a relevant parameter with everything it involves in assessment and support to see skills and competences widely and thus provide a basis for mobility, both against bookability and professionalism. Could we not agree to value both equally so that this will not be a battle for something to be better than anything else, but an endeavor to make the best possible use of abilities? The Danish People's Party will therefore encourage the government to focus on the best possible opportunities for everyone, and in this respect I am thinking, above all, of those who most probably need an effort: the group of young people who do not immediately enter the education system at all; the group on which the Stefan Hermann Committee makes recommendations on Tuesday. In this context, social mobility for me and for us is primarily about ensuring a way to use the individual's abilities in the best way possible so that young people can have a good and active life and contribute to society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224133028	There are brief comments. The first question is Mrs Annette Lind, Social Democrat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224133033	Thank you. Now the rapporteur mentioned that it supports the need for a professional assessment in the UPV. In the Social Democratic Party we also support the need for a professional assessment in the UPV, because we would like to see it here as an overall assessment. However, we would like to see it in the context of what the rapporteur also said about the recommendations of the Committee of Experts. So we think it is totally premature that this should be so, because in DF and in the rest of the bourgeois bloc, the content is not known. So I would very much like the teaching rapporteur for DF to be able to reveal what this teaching readiness assessment with the professional assessment should contain. It's as thin as nothing. We must have an assessment of this when we want it to be implemented urgently instead of waiting for the recommendations of the Committee of Experts on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224133125	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224133127	Well, the key thing in this context is to get the assessment spread out so that the individual can get an assessment, in terms of what one is good at both professional and academic. And that's the width of it. The details of it need to be developed from here, so it is not the case that I am going to be able to stand here and say that it has to look exactly like this. What interests me is the main aim of it, namely that it actually has to make sure that you don't just get this bookwork, that you're good at it, or you're discarded. You have to look at the width, and you have to look at whether the person is good at something booklike, good at something professional, something with his hands, and that he can do one thing or the other, depending on what he is most motivated for. That's the heart of it for me.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224133210	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224133212	We do not disagree on that, but it is incredibly sloppy to work with a government on something that you do not know what to develop for. Why won't DF wait for the recommendations on Tuesday when you don't know a stick at all what the content should be? You think you're gonna have to find out a little along the way. At the same time, it must be carried out urgently with a hearing next week. And what this is also about is that this is a great surprise to us in the conciliation circle, namely that the Danish People's Party thinks that we will just avoid the conciliation circle when we could have waited for the recommendations to come on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224133250	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224133252	But you can always discuss for a very long time whether you should do one or the other in one or the other order. What I think is absolutely crucial is that I hear from everyone that this is a very good idea to carry out an educational preparation assessment that is broader than the one we have. And then we cannot see that there is anything to prevent us from just getting started and doing it. That is why, of course, we also support the fact that this process is going to run.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224133313	The next question is Mrs Christine Antorini, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224133317	Thank you. Thank you for the rapporteur's speech, and also thank you for what I heard, such as that the Danish People's Party is concerned that social mobility is also something that we must work for politically and that opportunities are strengthened. I would therefore like to hear what the Danish People's Party thinks about the fact that the former Minister for Education and Research from the Left decided to single out the goal of higher education as one of the other nine objectives, it should be said to create a learning and training environment that increased social mobility in order to put all talents into play.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224133353	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224133355	Somewhere I think I replied to that in my rapporteur's speech. In my view, social mobility is about something that must be done far, far earlier than in higher education. I do not believe, regardless of what you do in higher education, that you will actually break the social heritage there if you have not made a proper effort right back in kindergarten and primary school. So that's why I think it belongs there. Then you can always discuss what framework there should be for students in higher education. However, it is for me to see as a different thing from having a specific focus on social mobility, which is why I do not believe that the objective of social mobility belongs to higher education.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224133434	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224133438	Now we have different universities which use different teaching methods and courses, because they also have different pedagogical ideas about how to create the best possible young people who have to go out afterwards. One of the universities that has been very concerned about how to do courses is Aalborg University. It is in an area which has benefited enormously from the arrival of a high-level university which has provided training for young people, many of whom come from what is called a foreign home. There are many model wrestlers, understood in the sense that they come from a background where it is the first time there is a young person who gets a higher education. And this is because Aalborg University has worked with realistic, project-oriented forms of work. For the vast majority of students, when they are about to write their thesis, they do so in collaboration with a company. Does the rapporteur recognise that it makes a difference in terms of breaking negative social heritage to think in terms of teaching?
ParlaMint-DK_20170224133533	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224133536	I do not know if I can say that it should be documented that it makes a difference. I'm not really sure about that. But I am quite sure that it makes a big difference in terms of how to learn and what to learn, what framework there is and what teaching methods are used. And there is a great difference between the different universities, of course Mrs Christine Antorini is quite right, but I am not sure that one is necessarily better than the other. So, Aalborg University is clearly colored by the students who are and the groups who are up in that area. But I just don't buy the fact that it has to be specifically about social mobility. I believe that this is about creating the best possible framework for creating the best possible learning for students in the individual educational establishments.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224133620	The next question is Mr. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224133625	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. In fact, I think it is quite interesting to say that it is not possible to do so much for social mobility in higher education. I mean, I understand that preventive action matters, but I also have the idea that it matters what you do in higher education. So I just want to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur does not think that, for example, it does. It is important for social mobility that we have free education; and that it is important for social mobility that we have an SU that allows one to immerse oneself in one's studies. Do these two things mean, for example? Is it not something for social mobility, even if it is in higher education?
ParlaMint-DK_20170224133702	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224133704	I don't really know if I'm convinced how much that means. I think it is a very good idea that we have SU as we do. In the past, however, reference was made to KORA's study, in relation to what it might mean if the SU system were changed. And I think that the studies that are being drawn up indicate that it can go both the way and the way. There are many more people today who are receiving higher education, but it is not because it has become easier today to break the social heritage than it has been in the past. This has not been a success, after all, in changing it. So what it is for some tools that do one thing and do the other... whether it should be one way or the other... I don't think there's any evidence to say specifically. And that is actually why I am saying that what must be the main aim, when we are talking about higher education, is that there must be the greatest possible degree of learning and the greatest possible degree of competence. I am quite sure that is what you get the best results with.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224133756	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224133759	Thank you. In fact, when you did the first major SU reform, you could see that there were significantly more people from non-housing homes who took an education. Then it is true that it is difficult to assess how important it would be for social mobility if you cut the SU slightly, but you could actually see an effect when you did the SU reform. I think it was 1989 without me being absolutely sure. I just want to hear from the rapporteur now that I have the rapporteur whether the rapporteur could see himself in a reform with the government, where the S.U. cut it down by 800 kroner. and suggested that more people should borrow and whether the rapporteur could imagine that this would have an effect on social mobility in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224133836	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224133838	In fact, I believe that the studies carried out by KORA showed that it was not possible to say with any certainty whether the proposal which was then put forward by the then government would have any effect on social mobility or have any effect on how many people took higher education. This can be discussed for a very long time, because how much does the welfare that is generally in society mean compared to how many people take an education? What are these really parameters that control this? That is why I still think that what this is all about is having a higher education system that is as good as possible and an education system that responds to the needs and wishes of individual young people in the best way possible to learn as much as possible so that they can get on the road as well as possible. And that is the case, whether it is in primary or higher education.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224133929	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next speaker is Mrs Anni Matthiesen as rapporteur on the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224133937	Thank you, President. First of all, I should like to say that I am standing here as the rapporteur for children and education in the Left, but also, in fact, on behalf of the rapporteur for education in the Left, Jakob Engel-Schmidt. I am very pleased that today we have the opportunity to debate this, which is of course a very important subject for the Left too. How do we ensure maximum social mobility in our education, that is, that young people and children are not lost in our education and training system simply because they come from an economically or socially challenged home? Fortunately, there is much higher social mobility today than there were just 10 or 20 years ago, and I really think that we all know some examples, perhaps even touching examples of good model breakers. I myself think of a girl who was actually born of a mother who was a drug addict, and the girl had a really difficult start to life. Today I can say that I know her because she is studying at university and is studying to become a lawyer. But luckily, you might say, it wasn't her mother who was allowed to set the standard for her life. This girl, as I said, is well on her way and has also managed to score top marks. She has helped to break the negative social legacy, and she has shown that Danish children are not forced to become what their parents are. If we are to have even more good stories about model wrestlers, and we in the Left think that we should do so, an early effort is important, because we know how much what is happening in the early years of life affects children. Our government has made a special effort to lift pupils who are having difficulty in the education and training system. Combating negative social heritage is part of our government base, and it is also part of our agreement on a professional boost to primary school. And there's more coming. In fact, this spring we are planning to present an ambitious plan for better quality also in the day-to-day offers. I know that this is not what has been mentioned in the text of the question today, but I actually think it is important to say it. Because it is important to take early action. In Denmark there is free and equal education for all. With our tax-financed education and SU system, Danish young people have good opportunities to break the negative social heritage. But it's not just about education. It is also about everyone getting the best possible conditions to do well later in their lives, so that we do not lose young people along the way in the education system, so we need to pick them up again. In view of this, I would like to read out a text of adoption that we in the Left propose together with the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives. We hope that we in the Folketing will be able to agree that this is the direction we need to take so that we can continue to improve social mobility in the education system. Our proposal for adoption reads: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament considers that it is a key challenge for the education system to contribute to increasing social mobility. The Danish Parliament notes that the government gives priority to early action in day-to-day provision, primary and secondary education in order to increase social mobility. The Danish Parliament notes that the government, among other things: set aside a pool of 500 million. kr. to encourage primary schools to improve their efforts towards the weakest professional pupils and, on the basis of the work of a group of experts, will make proposals on how more young people will receive youth education. The Danish Parliament attaches importance to free and equal access to education in Denmark. It is supported with tax-financed education and SU. Higher education institutions must make high professional demands on all students, and knowledge acquisition is always the primary thing. The Folketing encourages the government to develop the quality of the education system so that all students and students are challenged and can meet their full potential. • V 49).
ParlaMint-DK_20170224134400	Thank you. The proposal for adoption will then be included in the further debate. There are brief comments, and the first question is Mrs Annette Lind, Social Democrat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224134411	Thank you. Mrs Anni Matthiesen called for the good atmosphere here on a Friday afternoon, and I would like to contribute to that. When we created the new framework for primary school, it was so that we made the overall goals that all pupils should become as skilled as they could, regardless of their social background. I would like to thank you very much for that cooperation, because it is extremely important for social democracy, and I also know it is important for the Left. I would just like to ask the rapporteur something. Of course the parents are in the foreground, but is the school the primary place to break the social heritage?
ParlaMint-DK_20170224134448	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224134451	I also think, if we look back in time, that we can then say that almost whatever colour the government has had, this task has been struggled with, and I do not think it is possible to say that it is only one place to put in the first place. At any rate, I am very passionate about getting some action done even as a child's rapporteur, among other things. even in the day-to-day offers, where hopefully we can ensure that the negative social heritage is already being broken and, for that matter, children already support down to 3, 4, 5 years of age to ensure that they get off to a good start, even on the day they start school.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224134531	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224134535	We share the view that early action is important, and there is no doubt about that at all. The rapporteur also said that there is more on the way, and there is, of course, because we have spent a great many months doing a high school reform, but unfortunately we did not get that to be the overall objective in terms of social mobility. But what will the rapporteur on the Left do to ensure that social mobility is reduced in the forthcoming reform, which we will have to implement after the summer holidays in the field of high school?
ParlaMint-DK_20170224134604	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224134613	It can be said that, regardless of whether you say in youth education or for that matter in primary school, in the daily offers, which I mentioned earlier, I think it is important that you put in and that you put in the way that you give the children the best possible start to moving forward. Some of the things we may all be waiting for in anticipation are so, among other things. The recommendations of the group of experts, which will come next week, and I look very much forward to seeing whether we can also find ways together to ensure, in particular, the group that may not receive training today. Unfortunately, there are a lot of young people, I think it is about 10,000 per year. Young people, who, when they are 23, actually have no place in education, and I hope that we can sort out some of the things that we are discussing in this Chamber today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224134659	The next question is Mrs Christine Antorini, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224134702	Thank you. I would like to say that I am extremely pleased with the contribution made by the rapporteur of the Left, because it reflects exactly what we have also experienced through many years of cooperation on education policy, namely that it has also been part of the thinking of primary, secondary and higher education, to have a look at how to give all equal opportunities through education. So thank you for that. That is why I would just like to ask the rapporteur on the Left if it does not worry the rapporteur that it may have been an individual; I should not be able to say this, but, as Minister, that the Left's own minister at that time actively and independently removed the objective that higher education should also promote increased social mobility.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224134750	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224134754	It is clear that we in the Left have high ceilings, and we can, as we do in other parties, have different views on things. I am confident that the former minister who chose to do this had examined these things in advance and was not worried about removing them. I have to say again that as I know Mr. Esben Lunde Larsen, I know that if anyone gets in front of him before he does anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224134821	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224134824	Now Mr. Esben Lunde Larsen saw not just a member of parliament, but a minister of the government, when the Left was a one-party government, so it has to be assumed that after all it represents the views of the Left. That's what Mr. Esben Lunde Larsen also said that the Left has been opposed to pursuing social policy in education policy for many years. I would like the rapporteur to say a little more about what that means, because I heard a clear indication at the same time that it was important to be able to increase social mobility. Now I know that the rapporteur does not have higher education, so let us stick to looking at youth education. What is it that the Left believes can be done in terms of increasing social mobility, which I can hear we agree on is important, also in relation to youth education?
ParlaMint-DK_20170224134905	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224134908	Yes, first of all I can confirm that of course the former Minister for Education and Research of the Left has represented the position of the Left at that time. Having said that, yes, I actually think it is very important that we think things together and that, for that matter, as we are doing here very soon, we listen to what the researchers have also been on the line with the last few years and said to us: please listen to this. It's okay, you do some things when you get to youth education or, for that matter, higher education, but you get a lot more and you secure significantly more if you put in much earlier. That is actually what I think is important for us to listen to too. After all, we have all become wiser, and we can get significantly more moved if you start by putting in the daily offers and thus actually ensure that everyone gets the start of getting started, even on the day they start at school.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224135004	The next question is Mr. Jacob Mark, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224135009	Thank you. I think, in many ways, that this is a very good proposal for adoption, which the majority has come up with. In particular, the first sentence considered by the Danish Parliament that it is a key challenge for the education system to contribute to increasing social mobility, I think is very good, because I also believe that it is a task for the education system to contribute to increasing social mobility. When the rapporteur hears what I have just said, does that phrase run counter to the fact that the very same government that is now doing this has helped to remove the objective that education should contribute to increasing social mobility, to developing contracts for higher education? Is this proposal for adoption contrary to that resolution? Does the rapporteur think so?
ParlaMint-DK_20170224135054	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224135058	No, actually, I don't think it is. And then I am glad that the SF rapporteur, Mr. Jacob Mark, likes the text of our joint proposal for adoption in the blue block. I'll tell you what else I've said to Mr. Knox. Jacob Mark in several contexts that there are many places where SF actually agrees with the Left. I know, sir. Jacob Mark has also indicated several laps. And I am delighted, so it is perhaps wrong that we have not also chosen to ask the SF whether they would be in favour of the proposal for adoption here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224135134	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224135136	Thanks for the offer or it didn't come. However, I think that the proposal for our own adoption is, after all, better. That being said, I just want to ask you something. After all, it is here in black and white, and I suppose that is what the Folketing ends up adopting, that is to say that the education system should contribute to increasing social mobility. The objective of exactly the same out of the development contracts under the current government has been taken. Could it be imagined that in the future the Left would consider it sensible to re-enter the social mobility objective into higher education contracts, so that the proposal for adoption which is intended to be adopted would be complied with?
ParlaMint-DK_20170224135210	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224135213	In fact, I do not think that the two points raised by the SF rapporteur here are contradictory. We stand by the text of the proposal for adoption, of course we do, but at the same time I think it is important to focus on what is also being done to increase this social mobility. As I said just now, Mrs Christine Antorini, my view is that we should be better at starting something sooner. Because it seems very good night if you wait until people get to higher education before you make an effort if you could actually have done the job downstairs in the day offers.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224135250	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Next in line, sir. Henrik Dahl as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224135300	First of all, I would like to make a very brief comment which is on the verge of the agenda. I hope that's okay. Rector of the University of Copenhagen Ralf Hemmingsen is holding reception right now on the occasion of his resignation, and most of our research rapporteurs would have appeared if we had not had to do our job. I shall now confine myself to acknowledging his efforts from this point of view, and I am sure that the Minister and the circle of research rapporteurs will do the same. So for what the debate is about. I'd like to start by saying a little bit about a man named James Heckman. He is an American economist who in the year 2000 received the Nobel Prize for his research on samples. And sampling is an extremely exciting subject, but that is not why he is known in a wider circle. What James Heckman is known for in a wider circle is that at some point in the early '00s he set out to research in the programme to break the negative social legacy that President Bush II had set in motion and which was called 'No Child Left Behind'. Heckman found out that the assumptions underlying the Bush administration's understanding of social mobility were partly wrong, and it interested Bush's successor Obama so much that Obama started using Heckman as an advisor. In this article, which I shall not go into in detail, Heckman concludes, among other things, that social efforts that take place early in a child's life are much more effective than later efforts, such as: lower class ratios, job training, rehabilitation programmes, adult education, scholarships for education or increased expenditure on police. Then why is that? It is because what Heckman got from evaluating the "No Child Left Behind" programme was that the prerequisites for breaking the negative social heritage are not only cognitive, that is, popularly said intellectual prerequisites, but also non-cognitive. And the essential factors that Heckman came to were also important to break the negative social heritage were impulse control, good health, endurance, attention, motivation and self-confidence. The essential non-cognitive prerequisites for breaking the negative social heritage have two characteristics. They are brought home very early in life, and as a rule they are brought to the families. Heckman's conclusion is that about half of the inequality in living income is dependent on factors which are then on the question of the ability of the education system to break the negative social heritage. Jørgen S. Dich, long since deceased Danish economist and author, whom I love very much, was so cynical in the book "The ruling class" to claim that the whole project of promoting social mobility through education was only a lever to create more positions precisely within the ruling class of academics. Whether it's really that bad, I dare not say. But according to among others... An authority like Erik Jørgen Hansen is the Danish education system not very effective in breaking the negative social heritage. He has shown this on several occasions, among others. in the classic... A generation grew up. Nor does the high Danish SU have the very great consequence. This certainly suggests a comparison between the United States and Denmark, recently made by the Rockwool Foundation. That is why I believe that Heckman's results should be taken seriously. The non-cognitive skills one learns in the family and that one learns early in life that the most important to break the negative social heritage. And then I think you have to reverse your understanding of the SU. It is not the SU that creates social mobility. However, if the conditions for social mobility are there, then no person qualified for admission to an education should be prevented from receiving training because of his or her social circumstances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224135753	There are some brief comments. The first question is Mrs Annette Lind, Social Democrat, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224135758	I'm assuming that Mr. Knox... Henrik Dahl supports the framework attempt by the Minister to make school day shorter from taking the supporting teaching. This means that in schools you will have to have shorter school days. This also means that you have to have more time open in the leisure homes. We also know that it is children whose parents earn the least who do not go to leisure homes. You get your classes taken away from school, and you may not go to a leisure home either, if it is the case that the parents do not want to spend the money or cannot afford it. Does the rapporteur think that this is the right way to go to increase social mobility or at least reduce social inequality?
ParlaMint-DK_20170224135846	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224135849	It is very fortunate that an experiment is being made, because the whole point of an experiment is, after all, to make an experimental set-up, to obtain some information, to see how things are going, to compare with what the other reality is like, and then to draw your conclusion from it. So now we're gonna have to see how the experiment goes.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224135908	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224135912	Does the rapporteur believe that this will help those pupils who are already falling out of the system while the experiment is being carried out? That was the first question. Then I would like to ask you about the pool that should lift the pupils and encourage special efforts in schools. Does the rapporteur, who, as I understand it, is very familiar with the world of school, believe that one school can be improved from one year to the next? And does the rapporteur think it is right that we should give it as a reward? In the Social Democratic Party, we think that we should back up by giving some money so that we can get better. Then the rapporteur believes that we can change from one year to the next and is it really rewarded, and what are we going to do with the students who are already falling out during the experiment?
ParlaMint-DK_20170224140000	There are 30 seconds to answer the many questions. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224140004	Firstly, Mrs Annette Lind seems to assume that the attempt will fail. I don't think you should be that pessimistic. Secondly, there is no apparent link between what it costs to run a school and how good it is. It has been established many times. So I think it is a very, very wide range of factors that determine how well the individual schools are doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224140029	The next question is Mrs Christine Antorini, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224140033	Thank you. It is quite true that it is well known that there are many different things that affect children's opportunities further in life, and that early action makes a world different, among other things. Some of the things that the rapporteur also mentioned, such as the ability to implement needs, did not say it directly, but it sums up some of the motivation, etc. One of the things that excites Denmark is that we then have day care institutions where children can start early and it is not just raw care, but also an opportunity to build and develop the skills. So I assume the rapporteur recognises this: it is good that we have institutions that can do it. That is why I would like to know whether this is the position of the Liberal Alliance, or where the Liberal Alliance stands, when it is the responsibility of the parents alone. This is what the former family rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, who is now Minister for Education, Mrs Merete Riisager, said: it is only the parents' responsibility to ensure children's chances in life. Period. But this is a little in contrast to the Heckman basket, as the rapporteur himself said, because it actually shows that it makes a difference when others can also step in if the home cannot do so. So what exactly is the view of the Liberal Alliance?
ParlaMint-DK_20170224140141	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224140144	I believe that it is in the families that primary socialisation takes place, and that is where the battle must be fought. Something can be done, but if the families do not work, according to Heckman's research in many situations, it will have very negative consequences for the children in relation to the variables that Heckman looks at.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224140216	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224140217	That is why the further conclusion for Heckman is precisely that this is why there is a need for good educational services that can compensate for what you cannot do at home. I would just like to say again that the view of the Liberal Alliance at least in opposition was that the social heritage consists of the influence parents give their children and that we cannot remove it. However, I can hear that the rapporteur here is a little more open to the fact that we do have institutions that can help to give more children equal opportunities. The rapporteur also mentioned a number of research. Niels Ploug, who has published the new book on social inheritance and inequality, says, among other things, that economic inequality is inextricably linked to unequal opportunities. Now the Liberal Alliance is very much in favour of inequality to increase motivation: can the rapporteur somewhat deepen the link with increasing social mobility, which is supported in the proposal for adoption?
ParlaMint-DK_20170224140259	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224140302	If I can get an hour or something to explain it, it may be possible, but these are some very, very complicated issues. The inequality in Denmark is not very great. We are still away from the third least unequal country in the OECD, and that is the reason why we do not regard it as an insurmountable problem. We are almost OECD champions of equality.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224140336	The next question is Mrs Lotte Rod, the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224140340	I note that the Liberal Alliance rapporteur talks a lot about the early efforts. That's why I just have one question. Now that we in the Radical Left want more educators in our day care institutions, do we run open doors into the Liberal Alliance?
ParlaMint-DK_20170224140356	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224140357	Not necessarily the only effort, but the most important effort is in the families. That's where the value imprint happens, so let's stick to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224140409	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224140409-2	Yes, but there may also be some families that need help, and there can be an important role for day care institutions. So I just want to hear about it from the Liberal Alliance. When you talk about the early effort, is it only the families, or can you actually see a good idea in that we also support the fact that there is time to make a special effort in our day care institutions?
ParlaMint-DK_20170224140430	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224140430-2	After all, day care institutions are not an offer that, what should we say, get families on the right track and make families influence children in a more appropriate way. So I do not quite see how care provision is related to growing up in a family that is characterised by inappropriate values.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224140455	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. The next is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier as rapporteur for the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224140504	Thank you for that, President. Now the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, or claimed it is a claim that there is not very great inequality in Denmark, said it is not a very big problem. But it is certainly a fact that inequality has increased in Denmark over the last 20 years, and that is certainly a problem. And I would argue that inequality is still too high in Denmark. It was just an introduction. However, I would like to start from the bottom up, because there are several rapporteurs who have been up to mentioning this here with the early effort, and that was really one of my points, namely that if we want to increase social mobility in education, it is about putting in place early. And then there are different perspectives in it. One is evidently that it is the family that it all sorts of falls back on and that it is difficult to do it again or change a structure you have with you from the family when you get through the education system. I do not think we should be in any doubt that the early effort is the one that makes a difference. And that is why I believe that when we talk about social mobility in education, including in relation to higher education, we must look very much at the day institutions and the public schools. And some of what I was really glad to see the Minister of Education have been out with us, even though one can clearly agree that the timing may have been a little strange... is this looking at what it is like, the weighting of the evaluation is in the primary school. And it has been pointed out that we could give a little more space to some of the competences that are not the academic competences, in relation to the qualification assessment and, in general, in relation to feedback to the students. And in the alternative, we are very much in agreement with that. However, it is not only feedback that has something to say. After all, it is also the weighting of the subjects in the primary and lower secondary schools, i.e. how much the individual subjects take up qualitatively and quantitatively. And there, in the alternative, we would like to get more focus on the creative subjects, the crafts, because that is where you could actually catch some of the students who are really good at it and build them up in relation to saying: That is what you are going to spend your lives on, because that is what you are really good at. With this in mind, I would also like to say that I believe that some of what we may all have to face up to and where we should perhaps try to be a little brave when it comes to thinking in new ways is the fact that children do not learn in time. In other words, we may have had a tendency to think that children in second grade should be able to do so and that children in fourth grade should be able to read at that and that level, and that children in seventh grade should be able to do so and that. Perhaps we should challenge each other and ourselves in relation to that thinking, for I think that instead of being so quick to learn something specific at a particular time, we should teach them more to use some of the skills that they may have instead, and engage them in also wanting to learn to read, so that through it, that they are creative and talented in music or craftsmanship and design or one of the other subjects, we can sneak in another skill, which can then upgrade the skills that they may not have so naturally with them in the luggage. So the thing about thinking the different professions a little more across and at a staggered pace already in primary school I think I could make a huge difference, compared to the fact that the children who then leave primary school and have to move on in the educational system fall to a lesser extent into some hole where they do not move on from. And that hole now says it's 20 percent. of the Danish pupils leaving primary school who do not receive an upper secondary education. It is 70,000 children who come out of primary school and do not go into upper secondary education, and that is of course a huge problem. And I look forward very much to Tuesday when the committee of experts makes recommendations in relation to the preparatory field, because there I believe that we in the Folketing can sit together broadly and see if we should not make an effort that follows some of the recommendations. Finally, I would like to mention that the Liberal Alliance rapporteur said that we in Denmark are not very good at breaking the social legacy through the education system, and I think that is the case. Erik Jørgen Hansen has pointed this out, and that is actually true, that is that we may not have been so good at it. And we've tried different models. Compared to university admissions, there is this quota 2 thing that doesn't work, because quota 2 is even more socially biased than quota 1. And in that optics, I would like to see you get a little better in relation to higher education to experiment a little with new forms of absorption. In other words, one could just be inspired by the University of Southern Denmark, which, as the Minister himself mentions, actually has very good experience with admission tests and subsequent personal conversations. Perhaps we should try to think it a little wider, in terms of how we could put together a system of admission to higher education, which, on the one hand, cuts down a little on this whole character race and, on the other hand, opens up some alternative ways of admission that do not actually hit socially wrong. I have not answered what they look like, but I think we should learn from the experience that has been gained in some of the different places where you have experimented with it, and then try to unfold it in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224141000	There are brief comments, and the first questioner is Mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224141006	Can my colleague, Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, who is also a sociologist, as I am, not try to explain to me possibly sociologically, possibly politically why it is a problem that there is the third lowest inequality among all OECD countries in Denmark. The second least unequal country is Iceland, and that is because there were so many people who lost everything they owned during the crisis. Is that how we should deal with this? But above all, why is that a problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20170224141037	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224141039	Well, that depends on what perspective you throw at it. From a comparison point of view with the rest of the OECD countries, is that a problem? No, it's not. From a comparison point of view, it is not a problem that we are no. 3. In an absolute perspective, is it a problem that there is inequality in Denmark? Yes, it is because our goal must always be to create equality in our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224141059	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224141104	But equality in Denmark arises as a result of redistribution. Before redistributing, Denmark is a very unequal country because we have an extremely exclusive labour market where it is difficult to enter. After all, redistribution has some secondary problems in that it inhibits economic activity. Can the rapporteur not comment a little on the problems that arise by reducing inequality by redistributing?
ParlaMint-DK_20170224141131	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224141133	If I am to understand that correctly, the rapporteur says that I should comment on the fact that we are dealing with inequality with redistribution, and that is a problem if I understood it correctly. No, I misunderstood the question. But I can at least deny that it is a problem that we have a redistribution model in Denmark. It is true that if we did not redistribute, we would have even greater inequality and would it create a trickle down effect that might benefit those who are at the bottom in the first place? I simply do not believe that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224141205	The next question is Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224141210	The alternative rapporteur says in his speech that the alternative would really like to see more or more focus on the creative subjects in primary school. So I have to ask the alternative: what kind of subjects is the alternative supposed to be removed? Or does the Alternative believe that the days need to stay longer to increase the focus on creative subjects?
ParlaMint-DK_20170224141241	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224141243	No, in concrete terms, we have also come up with a school play this week. In no way do we want school days to stay longer. We want to set the schools free to decide how long school days should be, of course with a minimum, but the minimum that we are dealing with is what was before the reform, that is. shorter school days than we have today. When we then want to introduce more time and space to the creative subjects, where do we take it from? We do, among other things. through that there are some of the extra hours that were put into Danish and mathematics • I actually think it was one hour a week • with the reform which we want to lead back to as it was before the reform.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224141315	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224141318	This then leads me to ask whether the Alternative's rapporteur did not think it was a problem that, before we started the new school reform, there were very, very many pupils who left primary school without being able to read and calculate, and that is why broad political support here in the Danish Parliament focused on it, so many parties felt that we now need to get to grips with it, because it is unreasonable that so many pupils, when they leave primary school, cannot read and calculate and thus have more difficulty starting a youth education. Is the rapporteur not concerned about the fact that some of the lessons in both Danish and mathematics are apparently being taken away? So if we don't have the same place, where a lot of people will end up actually not being able to read and count?
ParlaMint-DK_20170224141404	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224141406	No, I am not worried about that, because it has to be seen in the optics that I also mentioned in my rapporteur's speech that we believe in learning, for example. reading and calculating, that is to say the classical academic skills, must be seen in a much more dynamic perspective when it comes to saying that it may well be that we are not all learning to read in the second class. It may be that some learn to read first in the fourth grade. It's okay. But the time and inspiration that we have to give the students to want to learn to read may well be through some of the other subjects, and therefore we see a much greater dynamic and a much greater flow between the subjects by introducing more creative subjects. Well, that's actually what we're trying to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224141442	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. Then it is Mrs Marianne Jelved as rapporteur for the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224141451	Thank you, sir. President. We know that three-year-old children in families with parents who do not have an education are 2 years after children of 3 years of age whose parents are educated. We also know that they cannot catch up with the two years. That is why we cannot ignore this knowledge. We have to take it seriously. I would like to recommend, on behalf of my party, that Parliament should concentrate on increasing the opportunities in nurseries and kindergartens to compensate for what some children lack, namely linguistic, physical and motor development at the same level as the better-off children. We can also see that research shows that there are groups of children in Denmark who are underpriests. That's what you call it. We can see this if we compare it with other Nordic countries. We know that there is a risk that teachers have lower expectations of some students than of others if they are not superconscious about this relationship. We also know that the students themselves are very aware of their expectations. Nor can we ignore that knowledge. We also know that there is a polarisation among young people. There are trends towards a culture of performance that may seem unhealthy. Among other things: it is evident that the perfect will become the norm. We can also see by comparison of first g's, who do not get grades in first g, that they are much more open and debating and testing with different views and perceptions than young people in first g who get grades. Some of them tend to stay completely still in the background so as not to get stupid, and then you hang on the edge of the group too. Perhaps the explanation is that we are now living in what might be called an OECD community. This means that there is a short way from input to output, and you create common measuring instruments. By comparing, we think we're getting better. We may forget the value of the teaching and learning communities, where the teacher, through teaching, opens up the world to children and students, and they learn to be a part of strong communities because they share in the school's educational knowledge together. And it has something not only to do with the content of the teaching, but also with the way that is taught. I would like to give a few examples of this. The 4th grade was visiting the Statens Museum of Art. They were to meet works of art, and they were to discuss what freedom is when faced with a work of art. They had been introduced to Kierkegaard before they arrived. Now they were facing a blender with a fish in it that was water in it, and there was a button in front. Ten-year-old children stand in a circle around the blender and talk about what freedom is in that situation. What is interesting when a teacher like me is standing behind them and watching them is that it is not possible for me to see that there are some who are hanging on the edge of the community. They are all involved and they are all acting as if they have the right to be in the community where they are recognized on an equal footing with all the others. It is an extremely important experience children do with being on an equal footing with others. It is not possible to spot the student who hangs outside. All the answers are good answers, and in fact they are in fact common to try to reach a common understanding where they listen to each other and discuss things and use the language. It's a special language they use. They use the sensitive language, the aesthetic language that is not to be learned, it must be awakened. And everyone can be on an equal footing in that learning community. That is the language we use in art; that is the language we use when discussing with each other, what the meaning of society is, what the purpose of life is, what the purpose of school should be, etc. It is in contrast to the professional language, which is what needs to be learned and which is therefore also excluded in its being and which may be difficult for some children to enter. That's why they need a helping hand. Both languages must be used in school, and both languages must be used in everyday life. I want to tell you about Liva in third grade who's coming home. She's used to showing the constellations in August sky by her grandfather. Now she has painted a painting for her grandfather, and she says it represents the stars, the Milky Way and the space. Now we're about to study planets in groups. We have to be together about that. We can't sit alone with all that, can we, Grandma? It is a child who is taking part in the educational knowledge that the school has, by being taught in such a way that the teacher shows what they do not know. That's what makes the world hang together: the stars, the Milky Way and the space, that's how she said the room. It was full of mystery. But it was a world that was opened to her. It's a great experience for children to get through 10 years of primary school in this way. Therefore, education knowledge is also a question of increasing opportunities for better mobility in the education sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224142014	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Jacob Mark as rapporteur for the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224142022	Thank you. A lot of wise things have been said now about social mobility, also widely on the part of the parties, so I do not think I am going to embark on a new big analysis of that concept. I noted that the rapporteur of the Left would like us to have a slightly better atmosphere because it is Friday. I was actually going to saddle up a little in my speech and, in honour of the Minister for Education and Research, I have made ten theses in the area of social mobility, which I think are some ways we can go if we want to promote social mobility in the future. The first is that social mobility requires that we have a more equal society. It is true that we are one of the most equal societies in Europe and the world, but that does not mean that we should not continue to ensure through equality that we have social mobility. Inequality is manifested in sport, in health and also in our education system, and if we do not continue to think about it in the future when we make reforms, we risk disappearing. No. Two, which have been mentioned by several people, and I look forward to seeing the outcome of day-offer reform, are prevention in day-offer and schools. I think that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party is right when the rapporteur says that a large part of what is happening, both in youth education and in higher education, can be prevented or improved if we put in place early. No. 3 is that social mobility requires free education. In other words, we must continue to uphold the principle that education is free. It also requires that we do not sneak in user charges through the back door with towering prices on studybooks, with travel and trips that cost a fortune also for those who cannot afford. And then, in my view, it also takes the opportunity to become wiser. That is why I do not think there should be a ceiling on how many courses you can take. No. 4 is that the SU has to be good, and you have to be able to live off it. We have been talking about this. In fact, I believe that it matters that young people who come from homes where there is little money can receive support to take their education so that they do not have to work a lot at the same time. No. 5 is strengthened guidance for all students. It will be very topical on Tuesday when the Stefan Hermann Committee makes its recommendations on how we can ensure that more people from the rest group also receive training. I believe that we can improve our guidance efforts broadly, and I believe that this will mean that more people will take vocational training in the future, and I believe that this will mean that more people will choose correctly for the first time. I believe that if you want more people to choose correctly, it is a better way of using counselling than using access requirements. No. is 6 reinforced retention. I am pleased that the Minister for Education mentioned STU himself, because STU are just some of those who have worked very hard with retention, especially at the beginning of their bachelor's programme. In addition to the human value of people not dropping out of their education for various reasons that may be negative, it is also a very positive trend for society when we ensure that young people do not drop out of their education. No. 7 is more feedback. After all, a feedback pool has actually been set up by the government, which should have been used for quality in education. It is then already used, but I think it is important in the future to ensure that whether you are going on a production education, a youth education or a higher education, you can get feedback, because I think that, especially for some of those who come from home, where you cannot get very much help for your tasks or how you develop professionally, it is important to be able to get feedback. No. 8 is turning down the character race and the test tyranny. Even now, we are testing children ten times in national tests during primary school. We test them in PISA, we make more and more demands through high school. There are access ratios for several higher education courses than the scale itself. And in general there are trends that suggest that what character races mean something to the professional environment in education. There were, for example, a study the other day that showed that high school students feel as stressed as they do 20 per cent. Mostly stressed on the labour market. So you have to turn down the character race and the test race and focus more on guidance and feedback. No. 9 is that we should help those who fall through. Therefore, we propose free psychological assistance for young people because it costs a fortune to go to the psychologist. We have now introduced this in 20 municipalities starting with my own municipality when I was chairing the Children's Committee. This means that young people who need to talk and need to get well because they have a mental illness can go free to the psychologist. No. 10 is that education and training must actively fight to promote social mobility, and this includes: e.g. in these development contracts, where it could be written as an objective that it is important that we promote social mobility. There were ten concrete proposals on how to promote social mobility in the Danish education system, and we will fight for this in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224142521	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Time was perfect. The next rapporteur is Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224142534	The vast majority of young people in Denmark take an education and do well, but there is a group of young people who are not doing as well and have professional challenges and are at risk for a life on the edge of society. We must, of course, make sure that these are dealt with. That is why Conservatives, together with the Left and the Liberal Alliance, have also written into the government base that we will make an effort to ensure social mobility. We will, among other things. make by strengthening the early efforts of day offers, as many skills and skills are founded in the early years. Therefore, the Minister for Children and Social Affairs will also come up with an initiative here during 2017 on the day-to-day offer area and on better quality in day-to-day offers. At the same time, fortunately, several parties have also been able to agree on a reform of primary school, where all pupils must become as skilled as they can and where more movement has been made into teaching and supporting teaching and educators in teaching, and there is also now compulsory homework aid. At the same time, right here in the Danish Parliament, we have also decided on an adjustment of the reform of primary schools, where we, among other things, have decided. has introduced requirements for fourth class dyslexic tests and that inclusion should focus more on the individual child's needs only to mention some of the adjustments that have been made. In addition, the government also allocates a student boost pool of 500 million. kr. over 3 years to target those schools with many pupils who have a low professional level. After all, these are also measures that help to increase social mobility. Finally, as several people have also mentioned in the Chamber today, this group of experts will come next week with recommendations for better ways for youth education, focusing on those pupils who are unable to go the direct way forward in the education system. Based on the recommendations of the expert group, the government will then come up with proposals on how more young people can receive youth education and that they choose the right education for the first time. So it will be exciting to see the expert group's recommendations and be involved in further work in relation to it. In relation to further education, we support social mobility here in Denmark by offering tax-financed higher education and SU to all students. So it can be said that, overall, good measures are being taken precisely to increase social mobility. An agreement on reform of primary schools is, of course, one of them. one of them, where several parties have been involved widely in the Folketing, and now there will be an opportunity to conclude an agreement on the quality of the day-to-day offer. I think that is very positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224142852	There is a brief comment from Mrs Christine Antorini, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224142856	I would like to thank the Conservative rapporteur for a very good and constructive contribution to the debate on the importance of increasing social mobility. I say this out of a sincere heart, because it is clear that the Conservatives have strong desires in relation to the fact that day offers should be even more the good start, which can compensate for what parents may have not necessarily given their children what they should have when they start today. I think that is incredibly positive. I am also pleased to note that the Conservatives highlight the reform of the primary school that we have jointly made, as one of the ways to also have a school that meets more children with the differences they have with them from home. So my question is simply about the small thing that the Conservatives, in turn, have made a very big thing, namely the compulsory provision of homework services. One of the reasons why it was introduced was, in fact, that it could give children who could not be helped at home better opportunities to practice and train the subjects and subject courses they had had in school. Can the Conservative rapporteur say a few words about why it is not also a good idea to increase social mobility?
ParlaMint-DK_20170224143003	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224143004	Yeah, I can do that. We think it is a very good idea to help with homework, but it should be targeted at those students who need it, and not all students have it. I can actually give you an example from my own municipality. Now it is the case that I am on the Count's City Council and I myself have been chairman of the Committee on Children and Young People, which covers the primary school area, for eight years, and there we have actually always had voluntary help. There, before the reform of primary school, we have done it in such a way that if a teacher spotted that a student needed some extra support, some extra help, some homework help, you could actually make a contract between the student and the pupil's parents and the teacher that you signed, and in which it said that you should come a certain number of hours a week and get some homework help. And it actually worked really well. Then I think it is precisely aimed at those pupils who have the need and those who do not have the need then need not sit around and take up time for those who actually need it. So that is actually the reason why we thought it should be voluntary and not compulsory.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224143112	Here you go, Mrs. Christine Antorini.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224143114	Thank you. The fact is that it is precisely a mandatory offer of homework help, and this means that if you do not need homework help, there will be other courses of study about professional immersion. This is what the reform of primary schools says. And that is the point, which I have actually had the impression that the Conservatives have been concerned that all children can become as skilled as possible, including the skilled children who, for example, have been able to do so. should have some opportunities for some additional courses on talent development. They can really go into depth at an even higher professional level, which requires some extra time. So I just want to hear whether the rapporteur does not recognise that it is precisely a combination of the possibility of getting help with homework, which I can hear the rapporteur also knows means something to those who cannot get help at home, and that for those children who do not need it, it is another form of training that I really think the Conservatives think is important when you want a high level of professionalism for everyone.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224143200	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224143201	Thank you. Yes, I am sorry to say here that what I'm hearing about is that this forced homework service doesn't work equally well in all schools. I'm sorry to say that. It doesn't. And this actually confirms to me that it must be more targeted at those who have the need, while those who do not necessarily have the need, but can go home and work with their homework themselves, then have the opportunity and not have to sit at the school for a few hours because they now have to, but instead can do something else. So you make the effort for those who really have the need, and then you actually have some adult professional employees who can help them with their homework.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224143243	Thank you. No one else has asked to speak, so thank the rapporteur. And then it's the Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224143302	Thank you for the debate. It is, after all, an old political rhetorical trick to attribute evil intentions to its political opponents. And I have a little idea of this strategy in the question debate that we have just considered. It is, of course, the case that different parties resolve problems differently. This does not mean that we do not recognise the problems. In my party and in the other governing parties, we fully recognise the challenge for children who grow up in homes where they do not get so much help or where their parents do not talk to them much, or where there may even be failure or abuse or something quite different. We want all children and young people, wherever they come from, to have opportunities in life. But the political proposals we make and the way we view the problem are not exactly the same as they are, for example. in the social democracy, but also in some of the other parties belonging to what is popularly called the red wing. In general, however, I think it is a good idea to discuss what political solutions are envisaged. Can we agree on some of them, can we get them adopted? What's good and what's bad? I've never been very concerned about the idea of adding evil to each other. In fact, I believe that every party has good intentions in its own way. Well, thank you for the debate where we have come around on an important topic. As I began by saying, increasing social mobility is at the heart of government education policy. There is still too large a group of young people who fall through, for example. really cannot read, write or calculate. Negative social heritage should not be an obstacle to the individual in life, and I will contribute to the opportunity for everyone to fulfil their full potential through education. I'll do that on several fronts. Firstly, on the long, tough move towards the ongoing development of education in the light of recent reforms. I follow developments closely, among others. through follow-up research programmes, and I will put in place investment and additional measures where necessary. For example: The government has just entered into an agreement with the Danish People's Party to supplement the qualification assessment with a practical dimension. This will help to raise the level of education for those with skills other than purely academic ones. In this context, in dialogue with the parties in the field, I would like to focus on how we can create the additional freedom that should be the framework for teachers to lift the pupils. Secondly, I would like to take greater action where there is a need for innovation. The government will set aside a student boost pool of 500 million. kr. over three years to encourage schools to improve their efforts towards the weakest professional pupils. At the same time, the government will strengthen the efforts of young people who never receive youth education. A group of experts will shortly come up with recommendations for better ways of dealing with youth education and, as a follow-up to this, I would like, among other things, to make recommendations. make suggestions on how more young people receive youth education. I can thus assure you that the government takes the issue seriously and acts on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224143652	There are some questions or comments. Mrs. Annette Lind, the Social Democratic Party, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224143658	Thank you. When we created the new framework for primary school, we had as the top goal that all pupils should become as skilled as they can, regardless of social background, and then you must thrive in going to school. The Liberal Alliance wasn't part of that deal when we made it. When we were going to create the new framework for the reform of high school, we in the Social Democratic Party wanted to have the same objective, because we think that social mobility is a hugely important part of what we stand for. There it was, among other things. The Liberal Alliance who didn't want it. Is it an expression of the fact that one does not think that it should be part of the school's work, that one should increase social mobility, and why is it that one does not want it as an overall purpose?
ParlaMint-DK_20170224143741	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224143741-2	As I have just said, we are looking at social mobility a little differently. One thing you can say is that we are not nearly as good at social mobility in Denmark as we think. We are not particularly fantastic if we look at it in relation to other Western countries such as the United States. U.S.A. We think we're much, much better than them. It's kind of our perception, our value, and we're gonna, but maybe we're not as good as we think we are. What I mean, and the government thinks, is that we should make sure that no matter where you come from, you have really good opportunities in life. But the proposals we make will sometimes not be exactly the same as those made by the Social Democrats, for example. the 500 million. kr., which we have allocated to the schools where it is difficult to lift some pupils, and where the headteachers may not work systematically enough with this effort. We believe that they should have some professional sparring, and they should also have credit for it if they do the job better than expected.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224143854	Here you go, Mrs. Annette Lind.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224143855	The Minister for Education also mentioned this training qualification assessment, which must have a professional dimension. We agree with that in the red block. We have also indicated this in an e-mail to the Minister of Education. Nevertheless, the Minister of Education bypasses the red block and makes it here before the committee of experts makes its recommendations on Tuesday which we would have liked to have waited for. Now it is so urgent to have it done here in relation to the legislation. When it's so urgent and you can't use this educational readiness assessment in the next school year... the minister needs to know what it's gonna be and what it contains. Can the Minister just unveil what is to be included in this training assessment? And is it good for us to do this bypassing a conciliation circle?
ParlaMint-DK_20170224143947	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224143949	Thank you. Social democracy was actually given the opportunity to participate. Social democracy did not feel quite ready for that at the time, and I respect that. It was then a number of other parties that were ready for the meeting and there is no conciliation matter. In relation to the design of it I would say that although I am a cand.mag. In pedagogy, there are people who are better at making such a method than me. And that is why we are going to involve some experts, in terms of how it is to be formulated in concrete terms.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224144021	Mrs Christine Antorini, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224144034	The Minister made it a question whether it was evil intentions that we have raised a question debate on what the government wants to do to increase social mobility. I would like to stress that, for us, this has nothing to do with evil intentions. We are really concerned about something that has been a foundation for the development of the Danish welfare society, namely to make all children and young people as skilled as possible regardless of their social background. That is why we have also been extremely pleased that a broad conciliation circle on the reform of the primary school was agreed that it should be an overall objective of the reform of the primary school. The Liberal Alliance didn't want to be in it. The same was true in relation to the high school reform, where the Liberal Alliance was rather stubbornly opposed to it being included as part of it. That is why I would like to hear the Minister for Education, who is now behind a proposal for adoption here, and I would like to sign for this, where it says that the government and the Danish People's Party actually think that something should be done to increase social mobility, whether this means that the Liberal Alliance has changed its position and now supports the importance of day care institutions, primary, secondary and higher education also having the task of compensating where, for various reasons, parents cannot necessarily only develop their children's potentials fully.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224144147	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224144149	When I said this, it was because the Social Democrat rapporteur said in his speech that the Liberal Alliance did not care about social mobility, and that is where the politicians of the Liberal Alliance are given an intention and an attitude which, of course, we do not have. We are very concerned that all types of families have good opportunities for their children. I can mention a number of areas where we have been concerned about this, but for example. I have been very concerned about children with special needs; on the one hand, in relation to the changeability of school day, where there is evidence that the many shifts that are on school day now can be particularly hard for children with adhd or other disabilities; on the other hand, children with special needs can have a free choice of school. It is just to mention a few examples where I have dealt with it. But it is clear that we are different parties and our approaches to a political area are different. It just doesn't mean you don't care.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224144249	Mrs. Christine Antorini.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224144252	I would like the Minister to address himself to the whole principle, namely whether it should be part of the education laws we have, that it is a goal that children and young people should of course become as skilled as possible, but that it should also be regardless of social background. After all, the Liberal Alliance has been working against it all the way through, and so I ask whether the Minister of Education will now do all that the Minister of Education can to ensure that the institutions for which the Minister is responsible also develop forms of teaching, learning environments, etc. that actually promote social mobility.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224144330	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224144331	Well, as I just said, the methods are a little different, and the things we focus on will be a little different. The government has the basis of its government, that we want there to be good social mobility in society, that there must be transparency, that there must be objective criteria and that there must be offers to families who have difficulty in helping their children. So we have that in the government base. That our methods, our approach and our systematic approach are a little different from what social democracy brings, I think is no wonder. We're different parties. We have different approaches.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224144415	Thank you. Sir. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224144420	Thank you. And thank you for your speech. I really believe that the main disagreement has been, historically at least, whether, as a politician, education policy and social policy are linked in some form or another. And there I can just say that I think you have to look at the two things in a whole, because if we want more people to take an education, we also have to look at their social background. I think that a little bit is being woven back and forth, so first of all I just want to know whether the Minister agrees that reducing the importance of the social background is a goal both for primary and secondary education.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224144455	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224144456	The union is there. The question is how and how to deal specifically with the challenges that exist. Once we have just made an agreement on the practical UPV, it does not solve all the problems in the world, but it is one opportunity to give children who have practical-professional skills, proper feedback on it and blood on the tooth in order to make it a way of life. There are some of them that come from a background where there are no high bookshelves, and some of them do. There are quite different young people. Anyway, I think we're just seeing this connection differently on the blue wing and on the red wing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224144541	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224144543	Yes, we do, but I think it is actually a positive step in education policy in the Folketing that we are all working on the basis of the objective of reducing the importance of the social background in the education system and not just in the home. I think that is actually a positive development for Parliament's work on education policy, and I would like to sign for that. There have been times, for example. in vocational training, been a social taximeter, and I really would like to see the taximeter system of upper secondary education again discussed, also with a view to promoting social mobility, for example. By making a social taximeter. So I would just like to ask: could the Minister imagine discussing the taximeter system again?
ParlaMint-DK_20170224144623	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224144623-2	Well, I'm not very concerned about good will. I'm preoccupied that things are actually helping some people. Yes, that is what I am concerned about: that we have some measures that actually give children an opportunity and not just send a signal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224144644	Then it is Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224144649	We write in our proposal for adoption: • We need all talents in Danish society, and the education system must help to support this all the way through. ▪ Does the Minister agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20170224144700	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224144702	The government has made a proposal for adoption which we think is the best way to round off this debate. So that is what I agree with.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224144713	Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224144714	Well, there may be several reasons why you make your own. So just to ask specifically about this: well, does the Minister agree with the point that we actually believe that we need all talents and that it is the job of the education system to support it all the way through?
ParlaMint-DK_20170224144730	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224144732	It's hard to disagree that talent has to be spoken. Talent can be something very different. Again: Once we've done this practical part of the UPV, it's because we recognise that young people are not going to college only and that practical-professional qualifications are at least as important in our society. It's also a talent, and it's a way to recognize talent.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224144758	Thank you. Then there are no more questions for the Minister. Is the Minister for Education and Research interested in taking the floor? Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224144807	Thank you for the debate. Today, a good framework is being made available to young people with tax-financed higher education and state education support. It supports free and equal access to higher education for those who have the skills, regardless of their condition. Higher education institutions must create a good framework for study life. It is an important work, but special efforts must not overshadow the professional work • knowledge acquisition must always be the primary task. Higher education institutions should not be a social experiment, but rather a meritocratic institution. Only with high-quality education can we challenge the students to unfold their talent. High-quality education is a key point of reference for the government's work on higher education, and this will also be reflected in the conclusion of new contracts with higher education institutions. But thank you for the debate. I think it has been useful.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224144912	Then there are a few comments that quickly came on. Mrs Christine Antorini, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224144917	It was because the Minister was so quick in collecting the debate. However, I would like to thank the Minister because I think there were some really good tactics in putting something on with regard to how we can also work in higher education to increase social mobility. I noted that the Minister first noted what is also contained in the proposal for adoption, namely that it is indeed important to have a foundation and that the education system also helps to increase social mobility. The Minister mentioned, among other things: working with study groups, mentoring programmes, reading programmes, various initiatives in relation to retention. I would like to thank you for that, because it shows precisely what is our point, namely that it matters when education, whether we are talking about primary or upper secondary education, thinks about how they organise both learning environments and educational programmes for children and young people and when it is higher education adults. They have very different backgrounds, and we also know that it matters how they break the codes in relation to an academic environment. So thank you for that. That is why I would just like to ask the Minister perhaps to say a few more words about why it should not also be part of something that the government could consider re-establishing in order to achieve one of the objectives of development contracts, namely that higher education should also contribute to increasing social mobility.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224145032	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224145033	One of the reasons why I mention what is happening at the University of Southern Denmark in relation to admission is that new methods are now being used in relation to quota 2. Much, much more attention is paid to the real potential for the young person to complete the training. But it's still analytically based. The reason why I am not going to implement what Mrs Christine Antorini is referring to is that I think that when you look historically at Danish universities and higher education, you have sometimes come into question whether they have not experienced ample attacks on the professional foundations of the institutions. There is what I am saying: objectively speaking, we have SU, we have free education and we have the things I have mentioned. That's got to be enough. For basic work must therefore be done in the institutions of higher education. That is my approach to it, because I have to say that parts of the political struggle that has taken place over the past 30 years, about higher education, have been such that it has sometimes been seen that the professional foundations have been shattered during the course of education.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224145148	Thank you. Mrs. Christine Antorini.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224145151	I would like to stress that we are in complete agreement that the objective of going to a training course is to be as good as possible wherever it is in the training chain. It's a professional foundation. Then you can discuss it because there are many things in a concept of professionalism. It is of course both, one might say, to become skilled in skills and knowledge, the ability to cooperate, put one's knowledge into play, etc. There is a broad concept of professionalism on which it is assessed. I would like to know if the Minister could perhaps go a little further on where the problem of having a goal for training to increase social mobility is when we agree that this should happen without compromising on professionalism.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224145229	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224145229-2	Well, that's because it can easily get into a fight with each other, at least if you look at the last many, many years of educational discussion. For me, it is the acquisition of knowledge that is absolutely crucial. In fact, it can be said that a meritocratic system, the merit-based system, was what originally broke with the whole question of privileged access, unlike those who did not have the same opportunity. It was precisely that when it was able-based, the social condition was gone. I think it is essential to maintain that. That does not mean that I am against what I have said, by the way, because I am not. But I am concerned about the professional basis of universities and higher education, if not really, really protect it. It should not be a social experiment, and there have been trends in history.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224145317	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224145321	Thank you. I think that you do not need to see social mobility as something that is about just getting all the socially vulnerable in Denmark into universities. So social mobility is for all of us. That's how much I can move if I get guidance and feedback; that's how much people who come from North Zealand and have parents with high income can move because they get education based on exactly what they need. So social mobility can be a lot of things that are quite different from the social experiment, which is why I think it can be associated with professionalism. However, what I would like to ask is about what the Minister mentioned about the University of Southern Denmark and their absorption process. During the time I have been sitting in here, I have actually seen that there are quite a lot of rapporteurs who are interested in looking at the absorption system that is precisely based on what is going on at the University of Southern Denmark. So I would like to hear from the Minister whether the Minister could imagine setting up a work on looking at the absorption system and starting from the experience of the University of Southern Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20170224145417	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224145418	But I'm following what's going on at the University of Southern Denmark. In general, yes, it is going a little too far in this discussion, but the whole question of using large-scale data to ensure social mobility is that it is people who actually have a chance and the potential to undertake higher education and that one can be much more accurate than that, I think have many, many exciting perspectives. So, of course I will.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224145447	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224145449	I just wanted to say that would be an exciting job. For today's problem is that quota 1 is an inappropriate one and that, as far as quota 2 is concerned, it has become almost a myth that it is good for social mobility, but research shows that it is not necessarily. So I think we're missing a third way. And there I think that just such a work looking at the University of Southern Denmark could be quite exciting, so I hope that more parties could be allowed to participate in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224145514	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224145514-2	We must always be careful that the third way does not lead to the Third World. But there is no doubt that with the data streams that we see, which are increasingly being collected, there will be the possibility of being much more precise, and I think Parliament has a common interest in this; credit-based. But merit is just going to mean more when you know more, and I promise you that. Jacob Mark provided, of course, that I stay a little longer on this post than on the posts I've been used to contesting through my now soon 4-year ministerial career that I will return to.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224145553	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224145558	I would like to ask the Minister to clarify the last thing he said in his opening speech, for a split second I heard it as if he were willing to write social mobility into development contracts, and then he hastened to say to Mrs Christine Antorini that this was not the case. So I would like the Minister to make us know what he was saying.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224145615	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224145616	Well, I can hardly explain what Mrs Lotte Rod heard. Well, I didn't say that we should write it in. Certainly not because I don't want that. I am concerned that this would undermine the professional integrity of higher education. But I would like to use the instruments that I have explained.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224145634	Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224145635	Then I would like to ask the Minister to explain to me what the Minister intended to look at.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224145643	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224145644	I think I have just explained the instruments which are in use and which are also reflected in the proposal for adoption. That's as far as it goes.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224145653	Thank you. And then there are no more brief remarks. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate has ended. The vote on the proposals for adoption will take place only on Tuesday 28 February 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224145714	The debate is open. It is first the Minister of Education and Research. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224145743	In the motion for a resolution No. B 53 requires the government to re-establish the objective of increased social mobility... more talents in games... in development contracts drawn up between the Minister of Education and Research and the higher education institutions. The authors of the motion for a resolution state that the social objective must be to help ensure social mobility in higher education institutions so that more people can take up higher education, as it increases both equality and productivity in society. Higher education institutions must therefore have as an essential objective the attraction of young people from families with no tradition of education. I agree with the proposers that contributing to social mobility is a key task for the education system. Everyone must have the opportunity to unfold their talent regardless of their condition. We, as a society, also benefit greatly from this. Therefore, the government stresses that everyone has free and equal access to education in Denmark. We support this with tax-financed higher education and education support for all students. The key to increasing social mobility is, among other things, the ability of children and young people to acquire the skills needed to begin higher education. This is why the government gives priority to early action in day-to-day provision, primary schools and youth education. Good professional skills are the basis for children's and young people's opportunities later in life. The core task of higher education institutions is to provide high-quality training that matches the needs of the labour market. The starting point must be high professional requirements and a targeted focus on knowledge acquisition. Higher education institutions with integration and retention activities must support young people getting a good start in study life and becoming part of a good study environment. It is also my clear impression that higher education institutions are committed to integration and retention. In addition, higher education institutions must make the same high demands and have the same expectations for all young people. Today, the government will send a bill on a better governance framework to the universities in consultation. The draft law is intended to strengthen university boards in a number of areas, including: in relation to the role, responsibilities and competences of the Boards. The initiatives must include: provide a good framework for dialogue between the boards and the Minister for Education and Research, including by meeting with the board chairmen at least twice a year. At the same time, as part of a strengthened dialogue with the boards of directors, the government proposes that current development contracts be replaced by strategic framework contracts. The strategic framework contracts shall be institution-specific and shall contain strategic objectives for the core tasks of universities based on each university's challenges. The new strategic objectives must be formulated in dialogue between the individual university and the Ministry. The current distinction between mandatory and self-chosen objectives will therefore no longer be relevant. The strategic framework contracts must also have longer duration than the current development contracts, and I expect that they will be four-year contractual periods. With the proposal for the new contracts, I have listened to institutions that are precisely demanding strategic and institution-specific objectives for core tasks with a longer time horizon. I expect the concept of the new contracts to apply to all higher education institutions, and the model for them will be developed in dialogue with the institutions. The proposal to introduce social mobility as an objective in the contracts does not support a strategic and unambiguous focus on the core tasks of providing high-quality training that matches the needs of the labour market. In the new contracts, together with the institutions, I will focus on the development of core tasks. Only with high-quality education can we challenge all students to unfold their talent. Against this background, therefore, the government cannot support the draft parliamentary resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224150145	Thank you, Minister. There are a few brief comments. Sir. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224150152	Thank you. It's very interesting that this bill is coming right today, because then you might want to ask a lot of questions about it, but now we're gonna settle for this little focus area. I would like to start by saying that I think the proposal made by the Minister on strategic development contracts is quite a good idea, and I think we can see that too, but of course I have not read it all yet. But I do not think that necessarily excludes the idea of promoting social mobility. It depends on what you see as a core task, I think. And now I'm just reading this proposal for adoption from the last debate, which we had five minutes ago, and it says first of all that the Folketing considers that it is a key challenge for the education system to contribute to increasing social mobility. And that is the proposal for adoption that the government itself intends to vote in favour of. So, does the Minister not think that social mobility could be regarded as a key task for the education system when making this proposal for adoption?
ParlaMint-DK_20170224150247	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224150250	Oh, I think I could say so much about this, because I myself, like the rapporteur, have had a past in municipal politics, and my experience has been, especially in the school policy discussion that has been that the very loose framework that was in operation for a long time in primary school has actually created enormous social problems. That is why it is the government's policy that we give priority to early action in relation to social mobility, that is, in the area of day-to-day, primary and secondary education. That's where we have to get this in place, so that when you start at the university, you're what's called teaching in a slightly flat language. That is why we shy away from it because we want the real effort to be where it actually works. And that is what is meant by the proposal for adoption that we are going to vote on at some point.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224150352	Thank you. Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224150355	I have two questions. One is: if the Minister saw it as a core task, it is well understood that then one could negotiate with universities, for example. to put social mobility into the new strategic development contracts? I guess that depends, Minister, on the eyes that see. The second question is: does the Minister mean that this is what I heard the Liberal Alliance say that the race has run when you are in higher education, that is that there is nothing to do in relation to social mobility at the time? Well, for example, means... Free and equal access, isn't it? Doesn't the SU matter? Does restraint mean that I have heard that the Minister has said nothing either, for example. proper guidance, much feedback? That is one of the priorities that can be set if you include it in the objectives.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224150438	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224150441	Firstly, yes, it is the intention of the development contracts to clarify what the relationship should be between the individual institutions, not only broadly, but the individual institutions, which can also conclude different framework contracts with the respective universities. Secondly: no, I am not saying that the race has run, but I just think that if you look at it historically, there has been a huge failure towards young people who have not taken this issue seriously, but have hailed it into the tyranny of good will and have just talked much more about process rather than what actually came out of it. And that's why you don't get me to move the focus, because I think it results in a lower professionalism if you insist on it. At any rate, it has been seen politically that this will lead to lower professional qualifications in higher education institutions, and we should not have that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224150526	Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224150532	One of the things that has come out of that we, that is. Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen, as Minister of Education, set this objective of social mobility, was that, for example, it was possible to: CBS came to look at where information meetings are actually held, and found out that it was in the same high schools where it had always been done, and where the students all look alike. Isn't it very reasonable that you got to look at it and that's why it changed?
ParlaMint-DK_20170224150554	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224150556	What makes sense to me is that we should get to work as early as possible because the problems are early and the rest will actually be repair work. That is where I think we should invest our energies far more constructively than we have done. I think it is really disturbing when you can see that the efforts made by my Prime Minister as President of the LøkkeFonden in his time as President of the LøkkeFonden result in the socially disadvantaged of 14 days, 3 weeks, being able to have 2-3 school years in special courses. Honestly, I think that's where you should put the weight. Fortunately, however, I welcome the fact that from next week we will have the opportunity to take this debate on a fundamental note. And what I want to do, in any case, yes, now I have said it many times, because I am very concerned about it, is that higher education is seen as what they are: places where there is real knowledge and a high professional standard, and that the essence is that it has to be difficult.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224150656	Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224150659	We in the Radical Left fully agree with everything the Minister says about early action. That is also why we prioritise our day care institutions and our schools as much as we do, but it is not a either-or, it is a both-and-so, and therefore just one more question: Is it not very reasonable that CBS has come to look at the fact that you always recruited the same places from, because you held information meetings in the same places, and then change it? Is it not very good that they have done so, so they are now recruiting much wider?
ParlaMint-DK_20170224150727	Thank you. Education... or the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224150730	I can't find a way around it either. Does Mrs Lotte Rod not really think it would be better for young people, at the time when they had to choose higher education, to be able to find their own location in relation to obtaining information? That's what we're talking about. And there I think, whether you can discuss back and forth and there have been many discussions between the Radical Left and the Left about the fact that the framework within which you have chosen to do so has not been square enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224150804	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224150809	Thank you. It is because I sit and think that it is such a funny dichotomy that is being drawn up here, I think, at least when I listen to what the Minister says. The Minister says that you want to have the knowledge at the front, I was saying, and that is the high level of professionalism instead of higher education, and that is why you choose not to include a goal of social mobility in development contracts. But is it not the case that high social groups and high professionalism are equated?
ParlaMint-DK_20170224150838	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224150841	No, I don't see it that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224150844	Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224150848	Thank you. This is how I hear it, as if there is an implicit assumption that it is those from the high social groups, that is, those with the good and strong resources, who per se are the skilled ones who can go to universities. But my second question is, in effect, about it, as Mr. Jacob Mark and Mrs Lotte Rod also mentioned that it is not either. It is true that this proposal for adoption by the government states that priority should be given to early action in day-to-day offers and so on. It is okay to give priority to this in the day institutions and schools, too, but does it exclude the fact that it is also written in relation to universities and other higher education?
ParlaMint-DK_20170224150940	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224150943	I do not understand what Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier says. Because if that were to be right, there should be a contradiction between social class and, for example, social class. skill, and I do not think that there is when one looks at it meritocratically. Well, it has nothing to do with it. What is the whole point is that you have the same standards of access, rather than some privileged ones. It must be the most important thing, and then it must be the professional who decides it. And then it must be in the prelude to the university that you have acquired what it takes to get in there. That is exactly what makes me say exactly what Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier says. That is why universities should not be social experiments. Those are the things you have to learn at that time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224151030	Thank you. There are no further comments to the Minister. Then it is Mrs Christine Antorini, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224151040	Thank you. There is no doubt, even following on from the question debate we had before, that the Social Democrats fully agree with the objective of increasing social mobility, including in relation to higher education, and it might be useful to mention the history of why the SF has brought up this resolution. After all, we have to return to the former government, the S-SF-R government, which, in the negotiations with universities, had as one of the objectives of increasing social mobility, starting from putting all talents into play, and I therefore think that we were somewhat surprised that it was one of the first, as the then Minister for Education and Research from the Left, Mr. Esben Lunde Larsen, single-handedly decided to remove as a very clear political symbolic mark that the new government did not like it. That is also why we have previously discussed whether this should be taken as an expression of a turn, that is to say that the Left is moving away from what we had actually seen was something that the Left was also concerned with, and that is why we are also pleased that it has been highlighted in the debate earlier that the Left actually supports the importance of education and training in terms of increasing social mobility. So one is the substance. We think it was wrong for the former Left Minister to remove the objective of development contracts; the second is that there is also respect for what a development contract is. After all, it makes sense to make contracts with higher education, contracts that are multi-year. Because it cannot be said, on the other hand, that it is then made from year to year, because then you have no guidelines at all. In fact, this was something that was taken seriously by higher education and also by universities, and they must, of course, do so. When it is that they are making an agreement with a government in relation to the long-term pointers, it is of no use that after a very short period of time, in the middle of a contract period, one goal is removed because, for ideological reasons, one does not like it. If we then do not want to support the SF in the motion for a resolution, it is because we do not think that it is appropriate for it to be the Folketing that decides the objectives. This must be a discussion with higher education and universities. There will also be a discussion now in relation to renewing the development contracts, a discussion that we hope to be invited to take part in, and we look forward to helping to improve it. Because we are not concerned that universities and other higher education are better run by the fact that it is through very close management of the boards and board chairmen. We are much more concerned about how to use development contracts as a good management tool. That is why we do not think that a decision should be taken here in the Folketing and that any discussions should be pre-discounted in relation to the renewal of development contracts, nor would it be appropriate for them to be decided on from this point of view. However, there should be no doubt that, as far as the content of this is concerned, in terms of increasing social mobility, including in higher education, the Social Democratic Party fully supports it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224151338	Thank you. Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224151350	If you think of a father who is right in the middle of the social pyramid and has a craftsmanship education, and if you think of a son of this father, who gets a master's degree and is right in the middle of the social pyramid, has there been social mobility?
ParlaMint-DK_20170224151410	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224151414	I don't know if there have, because there are many factors behind the father you're asking about. Now it is somewhat like the question that the Liberal Alliance also raised in the previous debate, and I just want to emphasise that for the Socialists it has nothing to do with the fact that it is a goal that everyone should end up being academics. We would like education courses to be sought much wider than looking upwards, as I also understand the questions of the Liberal Alliance. However, we are concerned with the underlying mechanisms that make it impossible for children and young people to develop the potentials they have, for example. there are children and young people who end up with perhaps receiving the primary school's final examination or perhaps not getting it at all, and we can see that there is a direct connection with the fact that, unfortunately, the vast majority of them end up in a place where they risk being on the edge of the labour market. Social mobility is that one is aware that it is not only parents' responsibility, but that, in fact, social action, whether it is through day-to-day provision, how to organize primary school, etc., can help to provide more opportunities to compensate for social divisions and for class differences. That's what we're preoccupied with.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224151515	Thank you. It is a little late in the afternoon, but one should not address one another directly in the Parliamentary Chamber. Here you go, sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224151524	If both father and son are exactly in the middle of the social pyramid, there has been no social mobility. Then they are the same place in the social structure that has just been an education inflation. It seems to me that the social democracy has always had a tradition of saying that social mobility is equal to having more education than your parents. Can I have a comment on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20170224151549	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224151551	This is a wrong interpretation, because what we are concerned with is the underlying mechanisms that mean that even if you have two children who are exactly equally bright but who have a different social background, you can see that it gives a direct effect in relation to, for example, the examination results they have from primary school. It is simply not right that there should be structures in relation to what is happening in families with their social background, which means that some people are being put backwards on points in advance. That is what we are concerned with compensating, and that is why we are concerned about how to break the negative social heritage and increase social mobility.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224151624	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224151628	Thank you. Both the LO, Danish Industry and most recently the Workers' Association's Enterprise Council have examined and published analyses which show that we lack between 50,000 and 90,000 skilled people up to 2025. This is, of course, a very serious problem, as many of these people solve both a practical and a very growth-creating task. If we imagine to take Mr. Henrik Dahl's example is that it is a son of an academic and that almost 50,000 sons of academics are now taking a vocational education instead of an academic education, so the normal concept will dictate that social mobility is not increased, at least not educationally, but for society it is excellent. How does such a development fit into the social democracy's view of social mobility? Are we not in a situation where we need to look not necessarily at the level of education, but at whether we have made our choice from an unhindered and free approach?
ParlaMint-DK_20170224151729	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224151731	We are just as concerned about what both the rapporteur on the Left said, the Liberal Alliance rapporteur said and many others have said: that we need far more people to go towards education, including vocational training, which is urgently needed in society. Incidentally, one of the good things we can say to young people who go that way is that there are jobs on the other end and that they can also make really good money. That is why the debate on social mobility is about something else. It is about when there are barriers that have nothing to do with the individual child, but with the social conditions, the social upbringing, the social events that the family has been affected by, that is, with the inequality that has existed in relation to the economy; with their ability to live in certain areas, and what that means for which schools there are so all the circumstances that are around the family and which we can see have a direct effect on their opportunities. Equality of opportunity is not that everyone should have a university education; equality of opportunity is that one gets a good education and gets one's dreams realized. And there we know that it is more things than just what happens in the family that have an impact on whether they get those opportunities.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224151833	Sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224151835	Well, it is unpleasant to see here one Friday afternoon that Mrs Christine Antorini and myself actually agree on this matter. Now it is difficult to get philosophical in the 22 seconds that I have left, but I would say that I could not stop sitting in the debate and thinking that if I were a social democrat, I would feel a fundamental outrage at the fact that since the mid-1980s we have started spending more and more money on education that people coming from foreign educational homes do not take, that is to say, long higher education, whereas the proportion of GDP going to vocational training and education taken by young people coming from foreign educational homes has fallen dramatically. And it is funny, because when you look at the Internet and see what the attitude of the Social Democrats is in the mobility debate, you will see that the above-mentioned virtually nothing fills up. Does the rapporteur also wonder?
ParlaMint-DK_20170224151916	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224151919	Well, I can tell you that this is actually something that is very much of a concern to the Social Democratic Party. Because when we look out, we can see that many young people are being trained with long higher education, also for many in the public sector. And where we can see we are going to lack jobs is in relation to vocational training. I would say that this is actually something that we, when we were in the government of the SSFR government, began to take care of. It was the then government that introduced dimensioning. It was precisely from this point of view to say: well, it is of no use that we spend a great deal of money training too many young people for a job market that may not exist. So that is certainly something we are concerned with, and it is also something we have taken care of, among other things. in the context of the Sizing Agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224152001	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks, and then it is the next rapporteur who is Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224152012	Thank you. We have been discussing this proposal for a very long time this afternoon, because the previous theme was exactly the same. I would say that when the then government introduced social mobility as an element of university performance contracts, I did not quite understand why it was done. I still do not understand it, either, because in higher education, the fundamental issue must be to focus on professionalism, skills and qualifications, and if you have reached higher education then you are at a level where it must also be what counts, and not special social considerations. Of course, higher education has to create a framework that supports the best possible learning and education of individual students, that goes without saying, it is the university's job, but from there and to put it into practice as a specific goal I find it very difficult to see that you have to do. At the same time, if specific efforts are really to be made in relation to social mobility, as we talked about in the previous debate, then it must be done much, much earlier. So that's where you have to break the codes, that's where you have to get the understanding that you need to get up to higher education and get an education there. Therefore, I am not going to make a long speech and repeat what I said earlier this afternoon, but simply say that the DF cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224152148	Sir. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224152153	Thank you. I think it is funny that, at the end of this debate, I do not really think that it started out as a result of the debate is spreading a perception among the rapporteurs that professionalism and a desire for increased social mobility are the opposite of each other, i.e. that if you have a goal of social mobility, it will be at the expense of professionalism. Is that the rapporteur's position? I would like to know that, and I would just like to say that there are people who come from home, where parents have nothing, who have a high level of professionalism, who, if they want to, should go to university because they have such a high level of professionalism, but who may be struggling with some other things, for example. Psychiatry, or that it's hard to get help from home. Does it not show that both professionalism and social mobility can be promoted?
ParlaMint-DK_20170224152240	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224152243	Yes, but I actually think that the best way to help young people is to have a framework at the university that is not particularly focused on helping just a few people, but is aimed at the student population as such, because if you are really good, then I believe you can manage. In fact, I think you have learned what you have to do when you go to higher education and can take your education and go where you have the skills and qualifications to go. I do not believe that specific guidelines and special consideration should be given to certain groups in higher education. I don't think that's the right way to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224152322	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224152325	But does this mean that as soon as you have a high degree as a student or student, you have what you need to complete an education? There are plenty of examples of young people who just come from home, where you have a hard time, who have a high level of professionalism and who have a high level of intelligence, but who go and box with some other things and who go down with stress. Well, it's actually a much bigger symptom today that it's been in the past. Does the rapporteur not recognise this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170224152351	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224152354	I recognise that there are very many different challenges when you go to education, and if you go to higher education, there are also very many different challenges that you as a young student have to face. I also recognise that universities must try to set up a framework that will make the best possible use of all the students who are there, but I believe that this is a broad common framework and not a matter of having special social initiatives for special groups to help them in. I actually think it's almost talking down to those groups if you say it's necessary, because otherwise you can't go here. Actually, I think they can.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224152429	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks, and then it is the next rapporteur who is Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224152437	Thank you for that, President. When I read the proposal, I could not help wondering why the authors of the proposal focus solely on the inclusion of an objective in the development contracts on mobility, rather than formulating a number of concrete proposals and initiatives that universities should follow. I do not doubt the SF's desire to increase social mobility. It wants to share the SF with the rest of the Folketing, I think. However, I find it strange that we should focus more on bureaucracy rather than on the potential proposals which I think we as a progressive Socialist People's Party naturally have in this area. It would have been more interesting, I think, to discuss the SF's concrete proposals than to have a debate solely on whether or not a contract should technically contain an objective. For this objective means that the Folketing will have no real influence on how the university pursues that objective. I do not think Parliament should have that either. It should be the university people who are best educated and therefore employed as managers who, of course, carry out and implement the objectives. But if you have specific proposals, you should have written it, I think, in the motion for a resolution. My dad's a potter, my mom's a secretary. I am the first in my family to have a long higher education. When I was in primary school, there was until sixth grade, I think no one had expected me to ever get into an education. I think there was a broad consensus that I should be a craftsman, and as I have ten thumbs, I am personally quite glad that I did not succeed. I got a good classroom teacher in the sixth grade and found the motivation and got a long education. I shall not be able to say whether it would have helped me more if CBS had held an information meeting in Birkerød, rather than having a good primary school teacher in the sixth grade. But the empire that I have found in this area and that seems to make the best sense is that, as early as possible, the pupils present in primary school, and also in the day institutions, will be helped to cope with the challenges they face. It is not in order for everyone to have the highest possible education, but so that everyone can have the education they want most and the future that that education offers. That is the purpose of our education system, which is free of charge up to and including SU and guidance. That's what's so great about Denmark. That is why I can sometimes be a little saddened that the debate is a little cast in concrete terms in relation to the definition of social mobility. For me, the aim is not for everyone to take a long higher education. For me, the purpose is that individual people find the way in the education system that suits the individual person best. Then you can always discuss whether we are good enough to guide. I think we have some challenges there. We can also discuss whether we are taking action at the right times. My view is that the best social training efforts should be carried out early. It is also always possible to discuss, and I am, moreover, very willing to do so with the SF rapporteur and also with the other rapporteurs present, whether there are concrete proposals in relation to the higher education system that we can implement. However, I think that the debate on the concept is less interesting than the content of the resolution. And the government's position is that efforts, including economic ones, should be early. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224152753	Thank you. Sir. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224152759	In my rapporteur's speech in the previous debate, I put forward ten proposals on how to promote social mobility, so I also find this interesting. When I have been involved in putting forward this proposal, it is the Social Democrat rapporteur who said so because we have had an education minister in the past, Mr President. Esben Lunde Larsen, who almost broke the contract in the middle of a contract period, said: Now we are changing it so that there is no longer this objective of social mobility. I thought it was a shame, because I thought it was a good goal, and I think it is so that when you make a contract, you keep it. But now the Minister has got ahead of me, since different contracts have to be made with the individual educational institutions. And I would really like to hear something about that, because the rapporteur and the Minister are from the same party. That, the former Minister of Education, Mr. Esben Lunde Larsen replaced social mobility with a desire to take regionalisation into account. Will it be the case that in future development contracts to be negotiated, the Left will also fight for regionalisation to be registered for that purpose?
ParlaMint-DK_20170224152853	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224152857	Thank you. If I could predict the future, I would spend my time playing football games and becoming a very wealthy man. I can't. However, I have an ambition that the development contracts we make with universities are, of course, based on the circumstances and strategic objectives of each institution. And there I think, as the Minister has also said on several occasions, that the acquisition of knowledge is the most crucial thing. I am also aware that when the Minister presents it here in his speech today, it gives very little resistance to the rapporteurs of the Things, but that is something we would very much like to talk to both Mrs Christine Antorini, Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, Mr. Jacob Mark and Mrs Lotte Rod and others about, so all good suggestions are welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224152941	Thank you. Then there is one more brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224152945	Thank you. I know the rapporteur is not psychic, but I think that a government party has a position. Just as I have a position that social mobility should be introduced, it might also be that the Left Party still had a position that regionalisation should enter growth and jobs throughout Denmark and in that country. So it was more of a matter of that. And by the way, I think it's a great idea too. What I would then like to ask is that the Minister of Education has now said that if we are to achieve a social mobility objective, it will be at the expense of professionalism, because it is professionalism and knowledge that is the most important thing: is it not really the case, including regionalisation, that if we are to achieve a regionalisation objective, it will also, if we follow that logic, be at the expense of professionalism and knowledge? Education policy is not the same as external policy, is it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170224153028	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224153031	I'm very fond of debating with sir. Jacob Mark, and now I'm going to say something that might make me a little unpopular in my own ranks. I take the view that if the growth effort in this country is about moving public jobs around Jutland, the public sector fills too much and private ambitions too little. However, I do not believe that having regional objectives stands in the way of having national objectives as well. I take the view that social mobility should not be about the fact that simply because you are born of people who do not have an education, your access to higher education must be easier than other people who are born of people with a long higher education. It must be the case in our education system that admission requirements and criteria are the same for everyone. Then I share several of the positions mentioned in the House that we can look at how quota 2 and the admission criteria work. And apologize for the passing of time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224153116	It was in the mild end, so I think we can handle it. Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are no more brief comments. It does not appear that the Enhedslisten's rapporteur is present, so that is why it is Mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224153133	The thinking which has influenced Danish education policy for many years in relation to the question of social heritage is, in my view, so misguided that it can hardly be repaired. In other industries, that's what you call a total injury. Eliten's children are in free education and SU, says Politiken in August 2015 in a big interview with one of Denmark's absolute greatest experts on social mobility, Erik Jørgen Hansen, and there is much evidence that he is right. But let me look at the point by point, why the educational policy thinking which has influenced Danish policy is a total injury. Instead of such fundamental philosophers of what social heritage is and I have asked Mrs Christine Antorini about that in the past, and I have received a long answer, which I am not sure I understood, a system has been created which has the characteristics that it creates character inflation, that it creates educational inflation, that there is a cuckoo effect, where academics push non-graduates out of parts of the labour market, and that it has created a quite excessive academyisation of many of the medium-term higher education programmes. This is because it has been operationalised here to break the social legacy into two things: to let a great many people into the institutions and to make the demands so low that everyone can get out again. It was, of course, at the heart of the case of humanistic informatics at Aalborg University that was pending in 2013 that the social heritage would be broken. This was done by letting a great many people in and making it easy to get out, and then you could say on paper that you had broken the social heritage. It was, of course, overruled by the Danish Accreditation Institution, and now the conditions have fortunately been brought back to normal. There is nothing in what I have said that really has anything to do with the harmful or inappropriate social heritage, and it should also be borne in mind that, in the broad normal area, there is nothing wrong with walking in the footsteps of your parents, even if the social heritage is not broken. The prerequisite for us to be able to say in a meaningful way that we have broken the social heritage is, of course, that we learn from childhood to control our impulses and expose our needs, to take care of our health, to concentrate and to fight further, although German grammar resists, and to see the goal for itself and, of course, to rely on itself. A political debate on how to help families without taking over the lives of families, but do so in a way that children should not suffer because, as it were, they have chosen the wrong parents, I am very happy to participate in. But somehow to continue with the total damage, which means that the official intention is to break the social legacy in reality, only to let everyone in and make it so easy that everyone can get out, we will not be involved. So we would very much like to have a more fundamental discussion about what social heritage is at all, but in the form in which the proposal lies, we cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224153530	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then it's Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224153540	Thank you. I shall start by saying that we in the alternative can support this motion for a resolution from the SF. We very much welcome the fact that the SF is out to propose that we reinstate this objective of increased social mobility and put it into development contracts. I have been listening to the debate and it is interesting. First of all, you can ask yourself why it is an either-or. I simply do not understand that. Among other things, the Minister mentioned this in his speech, and I asked the Minister why we should see this as an either-or. Why is it that efforts in the field of social mobility are made early into the education system, in the day-care institutions and in the public schools, and one cannot at the same time set such a target at universities, because one way or another it does not take account of university professionalism? Well, I just don't understand that logic. I think it is logic that we must challenge ourselves and ask why we think that way. This is not the case if you have had some experience years ago of the fact that the model that has been has led to a professionalism in universities which has not been high enough, that you have to say: well then we have to go back to it. However, we must be open to the fact that it is a task for society to ensure social mobility throughout the education system, from the start of the day institutions to the exit of the university. Then it may be that you have to do it in other ways than you have done it in the past. A good example mentioned by several people is how CBS has worked to become aware of how they recruit students themselves. I also remembered that in the autumn the Education and Research Committee was at Stanford University, and there we found out that Stanford is of course a great prestige university and that it is difficult to get in, but that it was only 20%. of the students who actually came up with their rating averages, for the rest they come up with different schoolships, which are not only about their being skilled students, but it is not only about that they have some other competences with them, which gives them access to the university. I therefore miss that debate in this Chamber today or at all. Why is it not that we are not also thinking about what other kinds of competences our universities could benefit from and benefit from? What if there are students coming in who may not have the highest grade average but who can some other things? What if someone has set up a company and has experience of what it's like to be an entrepreneur? Or: What if someone has had a hard time in high school because they may have had, what do I know, some psychological challenges and may have had a disease course, or it may be anything else that makes people have other life experiences with them in luggage? But no, we don't want them in, because then the quality won't be high enough. So I would just really like us to challenge the discussion about what the professional quality really is. We could take that challenge, and it is not because we have to take it here, but it is just some reflections that I sat and did myself when I listened to the debate, which I think is going to be too one-sided, in terms of what kind of focus we put on professionalism in universities. I do not want to say much more about what I just want to say: Cadeau to the SF to make this motion for a resolution. In the alternative, we support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224153914	Thank you. There are no brief comments, then it is Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224153925	Thank you. It is still the case in Denmark that one's parents' level of education and where one lives are far too important to get a higher education • not one's talent and not one's motivation. That was why we, or Sofie Carsten Nielsen, as Minister of Education, helped to introduce this goal into the development contracts, which is valid in the period 2015-2017, but where the then Minister of Education, Esben Lunde Larsen, when he arrived, chose to remove the target again in the middle of the period. We think that is a pity. What has been said in here is that we should make a much stronger early effort, because that is where it is most important. That is also why we in the Radical Left have played out that we really want to give priority to the barely 2 billion. kr., it costs a year to get the educators we need in our day care institutions. If it is not just talk in here, I could hope that it was one of the things that all the rapporteurs who have spoken about early action will also go home and fight for in their party to actually prioritise. But the early effort is not alone. The educational institutions also have something they can do. As I mentioned in my question to the Minister just now, it shows me that it works when someone like CBS, because of this goal, is going to look at where they have actually held information meetings and find out that it is at the same high schools where you had come in the last 20 years, and they all lie north of Copenhagen. Now you've created a new recruitment strategy and you're going to places where you weren't before. It may well be that it is just the difference between being liberal and being social liberal that the Minister says that young people must look for information and find out for themselves. Yes, you can have that attitude, but then the consequence is just that you do as usual and you do just as everyone else does, and then there will be no change. Another example is DTU. They chose to create a strategy to collaborate with far more primary schools, to make nature, technology and IT more interesting for children. It is also a way of doing things early, which works. Because it is not true that it is a question of either believing in professionalism and in knowledge, or of social mobility. What is difficult for many of the young people who come from families without training is not necessarily the professional, but that is all that is around, the culture that is foreign, which perhaps needs help in order to be able to concentrate on the professional. This was one of the things that became very clear in the travel team or model breaker corps that Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen set up. I know that one of the stories that made a special impression on her was the story of Cecilie, who went to a secondary school at Lolland-Falster. She had been placed outside the home at 12 and had been in several foster families. She now lived in a network home where there was a permanent educator, and had lived there since, at the age of 15, she could not really make it work in her foster family. She now succeeded in entering high school, although she did not actually think she could, but because there was a teacher 9th grade who believed in her, she succeeded. Then there was a high school principal who spotted her talent, made sure she came on a talent line, and provided mentoring support for her. Again, it wasn't about the professional. It was actually all about everything that was out there so that she could concentrate on the professional, because the most important thing for her was just to get the feeling that there are some who understand me, and there are some to support me so that I don't feel completely alone at the educational institution. Today she is studying at RUC, and she would not have come there without help and without understanding from the educational institutions. So now that the Minister keeps on holding on to the fact that it is the knowledge before all the other things, it may be that he should consider whether he should set up such a similar travel team. It could be that he was inspired by young people's stories to understand what they actually need help with, because what is out of the profession also matters to the professional. So we're gonna do this. We support the proposal both for all those Cecilier who deserve to come in, but also for everyone else who is certainly not like Cecilie, but because we benefit and enjoy in our educational institutions that we are different and have different talents and can inspire each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224154451	Thank you for that, there are no brief comments. Then it is Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224154458	I'll be brief. In relation to development contracts, the task of higher education is to provide high-quality education that meets the needs of the labour market. There must be high professional requirements for all students, and knowledge acquisition must be in focus; that is the core task. Development contracts must support the development of core tasks and quality, focusing on the challenges of each institution and the societal objectives, and we do not believe this can be supported by introducing social mobility as an objective in development contracts. The Conservative People's Party cannot therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224154557	Thank you. And then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224154606	Thank you for that and thank you for two good debates on social mobility. Actually, I think it's been exciting. I have to say that this proposal is changing a little, given that the government is today presenting a new proposal both for a popularly called control review, but among other things. In the case of new development contracts, too. We look forward to having a dialogue with the government about this, because we think that it might be quite sensible to look at making more targeted development contracts based on each university and look at what sort of efforts are going to be there. And I would, of course, if I were Minister of Education, take social mobility with me, but I think we can take a further debate on that. Having said that, there is one thing I need to say a little about, and this is the relationship between social mobility and professionalism and knowledge. I think there have been several speakers today who have made it sound like two contradictions, that is to say you cannot have both social mobility as an objective and professionalism. I don't understand, and I've been trying to make an example with two guys named Kenneth and Knud. Kenneth and Knud are the same age. They were born in two different places in Denmark. During their childhood they have read the same books, they have the same IQ, they have the same prerequisites • immediately at least intellectually and professionally to go to university, and normally it would also be the two types of boys who would go to university. Canute grew up in North Zealand, and he gets all the support he needs at home. Kenneth, on the other hand, grew up in an alcoholized home in Køge, where he gets no support, where he has to read for himself, and where there are often arguments. Knud and Kenneth both go to college. They're reading at KU. Canute still has help from home, Kenneth still has no help from home. But they both want to complete their university education. Then something happens in Kenneth's life, simply that his mother dies. He does not have his father to lean on, the danger cannot support him, and the danger goes further into alcohol abuse. It's all about Kenneth being in a situation in his life that he hasn't been able to do for. Otherwise, he has all the necessary conditions for a university degree. He has the professional skills needed to make the current Minister for Education and Research happy and satisfied. There is just what I am saying: would it not be useful to make sure that both Knud and Kenneth received an education if they both have a high level of professionalism, despite the fact that they have quite different conditions for completing an education when looking at which homes they come from? Now I see that the Minister for Education and Research has been on Twitter to write that we should not turn universities into a social experiment. I agree, in fact, that we should not let people into education that are not ready and that do not have the skills to do, but that is not necessarily what this is about when we talk about social mobility. It may well be that you let two people in, who have exactly the same professional skills, who have all the things you need, in relation to the knowledge needed to take a university education, but that one has some conditions at home that make it difficult. There I think it is beneficial, both for them and for society, to put a little extra effort into ensuring that they both reach the goal. That is why I think we can have both objectives, both professionalism and social mobility, and I hope that the Minister will consider this when he sits and discusses universities in the future. I would just like to say to the Social Democratic Party, which I think has had some very good points today, that I kind of agree that it is the Minister's job and that it is not in the Folketing to make these development contracts. So this will most of all be seen as an expression of the fact that I thought it was a very unfortunate priority, when Minister for Education and Research Esben Lunde Larsen chose to say in the middle of a contract that one would like to change the contract, remove social mobility and set a completely new target. I would then like to send out a message from the Folketing that we (1) do not think we should break a contract that has been concluded and that we (2) believe it is important that social mobility is still a goal in education. Now there will be a committee work, and I can also hear that there will be an exciting debate on how to manage universities in the future. There, the SF will still have a declared objective to promote social mobility, and I look forward to discussing that further. Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224155103	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. Sir. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224155110	That's an excellent example, sir. Jacob Mark is coming, but it's also very theoretical. And this discussion about the meritocratic and social mobility is not a theoretical discussion, that is, what should we say, the sum of the experience gained in the field of social mobility. There has been a desire for social mobility and it has been operationalised so that many people have to be involved, something purely quantitatively. And this has made it easier for many to do so. That is the problem that has arisen, and professionalism has suffered. Would the rapporteur please comment on this scenario?
ParlaMint-DK_20170224155150	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224155154	Actually, I don't think it's a theoretical scenario I outlined. For me, it's a scenario that occurs in those universities. I'm still at the RUC. I'm writing bachelor right now... and there's a huge difference between the types of students out there... some of those who have a hard background are more capable than some of those who come from strong homes, but go and box with some completely different things. And I think it would be a good idea if special efforts were made at educational establishments for those who have a difficult background, for some of them, many of them, have the professional qualifications. Then I noticed very well that Mr. Henrik Dahl said that it has been the case that it has been about letting as many people in as possible that it was equal to social mobility, but I can just say that this is not how I describe social mobility. Social mobility is to ensure that, wherever you come from, wherever you are born, you have equal conditions for taking an education.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224155243	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224155246	Could it be imagined that at some point the Socialist People's Party could be enticed in a reconstruction work which was simply about reconstructing the concept of social mobility? Because it's been made easier, according to this boring Aalborg case that I mentioned. If we can reconstruct the concept, maybe we can make a new start to work on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224155310	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224155312	I would like to take part in this, because I also noted that Mr. Henrik Dahl asked the Socialist rapporteur whether it was the case that it was automatically social mobility if you took an education that was higher than your parents'. That's not how I see social mobility. Social mobility is for me that people, wherever they have grown up, have the same free and equal access and the same conditions for being what they dream of if they have the professional qualifications.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224155338	Then it's mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224155343	I would like to start by thanking the rapporteur for a good debate. I could not help but notice that, at the end of his speech, the rapporteur said 'and I think I quote verbatim: we must try to create a system in which universities do something extra for those who come from weak homes. The rapporteur nods, so I assume that is correct. My impression is that this will cause some major social problems. About a year ago, I stopped as head of a vocational school here in Copenhagen, and when you run school in Copenhagen, there is a wide range of students. If I had to do something extra for the students who per. definition comes from weak homes, I would, unless it was done anonymously and after school, of course exhaust large parts of the student stock and tell the rest of the class that these students come from homes that are not as socially acceptable as the homes that you come from elsewhere. Could Mr. Jacob Mark try to consecrate us others a little in how to take care of pupils who come from socially weak homes in the educational system and do so without becoming a social problem in the class and in the study?
ParlaMint-DK_20170224155441	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224155444	I really think that is a very good question, because what had been sharper to say was, of course, that one should start from the individual pupil. However, I also believe that if you do this, starting from the individual student in the educational establishments and from what the individual student or student needs, it will also typically and more often be the pupils who come from weak or vulnerable homes who need extra effort. I think it must be a stated objective to have that effort at our disposal. But that doesn't mean, of course, that if you come from a strong home, but have some other problems you go and box with, then don't need the help you need.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224155516	Sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224155520	We can probably talk about that further, but the time is short here in the question round. I also feel the urge to ask Mr. Jacob Mark, about sir. Jacob Mark is aware that six months ago the think tank DEA documented that students coming from foreign educational homes actually carry out their higher education and also long higher education more quickly than those coming from educational homes. I know that it destroys the social-realistic story of Nexo characters, but I also have to point out the facts here in the Parliamentary Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224155549	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224155552	But I do not think it necessarily contradicts what I have said, so I do not fully understand the point. If I had to make an offer as to why it could be so, it would be that many of those who come from home, where, for example, you could go. never had much money, doesn't want to be in a studio, because you typically spend a lot of money during the studies and don't have much money. You risk debt, so you want to finish quickly, so you get into the labour market and earn some money, while people who have grown up in families where you haven't lacked anything take it a little more easy. So I think it is true that people who come from foreign educational homes give it extra gas because they want to get out quickly and perform on the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224155629	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments, and then the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Education and Research Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224155641	The following electoral groups have been notified: a group of 90 members: Danish People's Party, Left, Liberal Alliance and Conservative People's Party; a group of 88 members: Social Democracy, Enhedslisten, Alternativet, Radical Left, Socialist People's Party, Inuit Ataqatigiit (IA), Tjóðveldi (T) and Javnaðarflokkurin (JF). The former 90-member electoral group, after a proportional distribution of the seats for which the Folketing is required to appoint members, is best entitled to the seat. I have received from this election group the recommendation that Rolf Aagaard-Svendsen (appointed by the KF) be elected. The person concerned is then elected.
ParlaMint-DK_20170224155729	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday 28 February 2017, at 2 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
