ParlaMint-DK_20170118130011	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Marie Krarup (DF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 54 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the prohibition of praying rooms in public educational establishments). Carolina Magdalene Maier (ALT) and Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT): Motion for a resolution No. B 55 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution to turn national tests into voluntary tools in primary and lower secondary schools). Pernille Skipper (EL) and Jakob Sølvhøj (EL): Request no. F 32 (Will the Minister, on the basis of an open letter from 17 social organisations on 11 January 2017, explain the development of child poverty in Denmark as well as what the Government is actively planning to do to counteract child poverty and its social consequences?). Trine Bramsen (S) and others: Question No. F 33 (Will the Minister explain what initiatives will be taken by the government to ensure a continued reduction in the number of break-ins, including when the Minister intends to initiate new initiatives?). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). I must inform you that by Christian Rabjerg Madsen under no. 20 questions put to the Minister for the Environment and Food are deleted from the agenda at the request of the author.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118130111	The first question is to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, by Mr Gundelach. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118130123	Here you go for a reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118130126	Thank you very much. Will the Foreign Minister explain his statements to TV 2 that the EU should not legislate on the working environment, including which parts of the current European legislation on health and safety should be rolled back?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118130138	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118130139	What I want is a strong, slim and effective European Union, an EU that makes businesses and consumers richer and freer, an EU that only interferes where necessary. For many policy areas, the EU is a necessity and indeed an optimal solution, especially for a small, open country like Denmark. I've never concealed that either. But it is not the same as not being able to criticise when the EU goes too far or if it is going too far. If we want to maintain the progress that the European Union has made, we must constantly look at whether we are doing the right thing and react if that is not the case. The European Union must not have so many bureaucratic rounds that it is no longer possible to see that cooperation delivers concrete results and real added value. The focus must be on finding common solutions to the huge challenges we face: migration, security, the economy and the defence of our freedom. In other words, in the words of the present Commission, the European Union must be big and small on small matters. I think that is an entirely correct agenda, and I will keep the Commission up to that, in fact. I have used the working environment as an example in an area where I have seen the European Union going too far in the past. When I was in the European Parliament, we spent a lot of time discussing whether a proposal on health and safety should include provisions on sunscreen. And I just have to say that I think that the European Union was using its powers on the wrong side. Here we are way beyond what is important to regulate at EU level, which is why such a proposal should never have a life, and I will make it my business not to happen again. There are many more important things to take care of for the European Union. The EU should not regulate in detail unless it is absolutely necessary to make the internal market work. Decisions must be taken as close to the citizens as possible and the European Union must focus on the major challenges that individual countries cannot solve themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118130332	Thank you. Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118130333	Thank you very much. Those are a lot of fine words, and so it is on the part of the Commission when it says that we should do more where it makes sense and make less where it does not make sense. The reason I asked this question is, of course, that I read with great concern the statements by the Minister for Foreign Affairs that exactly the legislation on working conditions should no longer be used. One might well think that it does not matter to deal with rules for the use of sunscreen, for example, but it is of course the opinion that employees who are put to pick tomatoes in Spain or grapes down in the South of France should be protected from skin cancer as part of their work. But I just have to understand, because we are all trying to concentrate on the fact that we want a revised EU policy, which is part of the new government basis. We still don't know what exactly it's about, so we're trying to do that. This was such a good opportunity to talk about the working environment. Should I understand that the example of sunscreen has just been used and that the government and the Minister for Foreign Affairs do not think that there should be any dispute with European legislation on health and safety at work or how should these statements be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118130453	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118130455	I would really like to reply, but first I almost have to get clarification. So, does the questioner think it is absolutely essential that it is Brussels that deals with sunscreen legislation, or does the questioner like me think that it is possible to find out for himself in Italy?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118130510	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118130511	I am not the one who is at Question Time, but nevertheless I would like to reply. Basically, I think it is important for the European Union to take care of regulating health and safety regulations where necessary. And I do not think it is interesting whether it is one or the other body that regulates matters around sunscreen. I think it was an interesting example that the Foreign Minister provided, because it shows that we are not interested in exactly the tomato pickers or grape pickers who could be exposed to skin cancer. What is my question is whether there are other parts of EU health and safety legislation that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Government will launch to take up a fight with, in addition to sunscreen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118130546	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118130546-2	This is simply nonsense. I mean, because I think you can do something like this yourself. This is not the same thing as the fact that I do not care about workers' rights. That is nonsense. Well, it doesn't make any sense to put it up like that. Does this mean that workers' rights will only be taken into account if we are in favour of everything being decided in Brussels? Is that the discussion we are going to have? I think that is an absurd discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118130614	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118130615	I regret once again having to say this, but the Foreign Minister refuses to answer my question. It is of particular relevance that the European Union does so when, for example, it does so. are posted workers. I shall not be able to say if you have companies that post their workers to pick tomatoes. I do not think it is unrealistic to imagine, and in that scenario it is also relevant to have adopted directives on this subject. But I ask the question again: does the Foreign Minister think that there are other parts of European legislation on health and safety that need to be discussed?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118130643	Thank you. Then it is the Minister, and I would ask that there should be an answer and not a question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118130647	I promise from this chair that I will keep an eye on what is going on in the future. It is now that I have sat in the chair, and I will try to follow up on behalf of the Danes from the chair where I am sitting, and see whether the Commission is living up to what the Commission itself says and what it has actually shown here in recent years. And perhaps it is a slightly opposite trend of what the questioner seems to want, namely to interfere less.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118130719	Thank you. That concludes the question. There is a new question, and it is to the Minister of Justice of Mr. Magnus Heunicke.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118130727	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118130727-2	Thank you. What is the Minister's view that his party colleague, MP Rasmus Jarlov, continues to use driving via the company Uber and even advertises it on social media, when Uber drivers are at risk of being fined for pirate driving as a result of the judgment in Copenhagen Byret, later confirmed by the Østre Landsret, and when the prosecutor, under the authority of the Minister of Justice, has indicted Uber for complicity in the illegal taxi traffic?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118130802	Here you go, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118130803	Thank you. The questioner refers to Østre Landsret, which confirmed on 18 November a verdict from Copenhagen Byret against a person who had been driving as a driver for Uber. In the case, the Land Court stated that Uberdrift is a taxi service and that therefore the driver must comply with the applicable taxi legislation. The Copenhagen Police Department has since indicted Uber for complicity in the violation of taxi law. I would like to stress that, as a rule, it is not illegal to be a passenger in a Ubercar, and that is what I have to deal with as the Minister of Justice, and therefore I see no reason to go into the matter further.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118130845	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118130847	I ask that because on 26 December, right after Christmas, I saw a poster on Facebook by Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, who is a Conservative member of the Danish Parliament, that is to say our Minister of Justice's party colleague, and to the picture he has taken from a Uberbil, writes himself that he has driven Uber through Copenhagen, and so he writes on Facebook that he has done so. When I ask the Conservative Minister for Justice his opinion on this, it is because I am interested in hearing the Minister for Justice's opinion on it. It is quite true that the judgments have fallen, they have been upheld by the Østre Landsret, and also that the prosecution has indicted the entire company, i.e. the entire complex of prosecutions, which is directly under the authority of the Minister of Justice. That is why I find it interesting to know what the position of the Minister is. I am not trying here to get the Minister to change legislation or something that is being negotiated over in the Ministry of Transport, and I still hope that we can land well. That is not what this is all about, it is about the Minister of Justice of the Conservative People's Party, a party which has historically stood for law and order and which has the prosecution as its Resort Public Prosecutor, who has indicted the company and there has been a series of sentences against the drivers who have been driving. And then it is interesting to know what the Minister of Justice of the Conservative People's Party is like when his own members of the Danish Parliament and his own party advertise that they are driving around in something that is illegal for those who do the job, and that is the attitude I am interested in getting.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118131034	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118131035	Thank you. I feel that law and order are important in a society, and law is law, and law must be kept, and if this had been an illegal act, I would have had a pretty sharp attitude towards it. But I'm not going around talking about everything else that's legal in Denmark either, because then I could spend a lot of time. I feel like this isn't illegal, and then it has to be up to mr. Rasmus Jarlov himself to consider when he will drive in one or other means of transport. I don't want to get involved in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118131110	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118131111	Can it really be that the Conservative People's Party has become such a party that, like itself, refuses to take a moral stand on what kind of signal is being sent as a legislator from in here? So now the position of Minister of Justice has been taken. Can it really be true that all those who obey the law, all those who are taxi drivers and follow the laws of the country, can see that some are cheating and that those who are customers in the shop are the Conservative People's Party's own members of parliament? Can that really be true?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118131144	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118131145	See, where I come from, it is so that if you have a question for someone, you ask it directly and not per. temp. And then the questioner could have asked Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, how much he drives it and what he thinks about it. Now, like in one way or another, I'm supposed to be such a mediator, and I don't know if it's because these two gentlemen can't talk at all or what's going on. I just note that my job as Minister of Justice is to make sure that law is law and that law must be kept. And if this was illegal, I can guarantee that I would mark myself very, very clearly. But I have to say that things that are not illegal must also be done by individual MPs, even if you are a party member with me, whether you are right or wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118131224	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118131225	What, then, is the Justice Minister's response to those drivers who are Uber drivers who are violating the law, who are at risk of heavy fines, who are employed by a company against which the Justice Minister's own prosecutor has prosecuted, and who may have their license plates cut and therefore have large fines as last confirmed by the Østre Landsret? What is the reason for them to be careful when carrying out their work, even if it is paid by members of the Conservative People's Party, because that is still illegal?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118131303	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118131304	When something is known illegally, you can't do it. If you so deliberately choose to do so, you can be charged and get a verdict for it. We have seen some examples of this. That's why I just feel that law is law and law must be kept. I had the hope that the negotiations that are taking place in the Ministry of Transport right now could lead to the idea that in this society, however, the division economy would be embraced, to try to look positively at the world changing and not to think that it is standing still all the time. I could have a rewarding hope for that, but I won't go into that, because I think I'll get out any further than my resort covers.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118131339	Thank you. The question is closed. The next question is also for the Minister of Justice, and that is by Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118131350	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118131352	Thank you. What will the Minister do to reduce sick leave for prison officers?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118131400	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118131401	Thank you. It must be hard to sit in prison, and at the same time the safety of employees must be in order, and the care of criminals must be a good place to work. Having said that, there should be no doubt that there are challenges today in our prisons and our detention houses. There is an increasing number of threats and attacks by the prison staff, and the absence of sick people among the prison guards is high. The Department of Investigation has reported that the average absence per year of sick leave. employee in 2014 was just over 16 days, while in 2016 it had increased to just under 20 days. In addition, the Department of Justice has stated that approx. 66 per cent. the absence of sickness is due to long-term sickness reports, i.e. medical reports of more than 30 days' duration. The absence of a prison warden's sick leave has for some time been a focus area for criminal justice, but I have to say that, despite the fact that it is a focus area, it has gone the wrong way. I think that's really, really bad. That is one of the reasons why I have decided to set up a task force to look at what initiatives can be taken quickly to improve the staff situation. And it would be natural for the task force to focus on identifying the causes of it and pointing to initiatives to reduce absenteeism. The prison association and the other staff organisations will, of course, be involved in the work. Then it is also the case that the multi-year agreement on criminal justice expired at the turn of the year, but with the 2017 Finance Act we have decided to extend the 2016 grant so that it has been continued in 2017, so we will have some time to look through all the initiatives from the old agreement and have a constructive discussion on what we are going to do with criminal justice in the future. But here and now it is a task force that is quickly trawling the system through and putting in where we can provide workers with better working conditions in a short time. I am sure that both the questioner and I can find very good solutions to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118131604	Here you go, sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118131605	I very much hope that we can, in other words, find good, lasting solutions for the criminal services, because that is what we really need if we are to be asked. I would really like to go back to the start of the Minister's reply, which was, of course, about stricter penalties for the people who were put in prison. I agree with that, and we are talking a lot about it. I hope that we can also do something about this. However, that debate must not mean that we forget another and also really important debate: how to create better conditions for the staff who operate daily in prisons and detention houses and who, of course, are entitled to our full support. There is no doubt that there has been incredibly intense pressure, especially in recent years, when there have been more attacks, more violence and pressure on prison staff. It can also be seen in sick absence. At the same time, we are missing a greater number of prison officers. Criminal services themselves say 70-80 prison officers, and that is also the number that the Minister maintained in a consultation this morning. And I'm actually gonna ask a little more questions about the number of cops you say you're missing. Because if you keep your mind on the subject of prisons and detention houses, you quickly get the impression that even more prison officers may be missing. And, of course, we know that one of the keys to making it work in prisons is that there are enough staff for the tasks there are. That is what is crucial for you to feel safe and to know that there is always help to draw on if you need it, but also that there is time for the work with the prisoners that needs to be done, for example. relations work. At the same time, we see that the Danish Parliament has adopted several laws which actually impose tasks on prison staff that make them run faster. So allow me to question whether there is in fact only a shortage of the 70-80 prison officers who are reported missing by the Department of Justice. That is why I would like to hear from the Minister whether the government does not see that, with the laws that have been passed and with the aims that are among the inmates, there is a need for a greater number of prison officers in the long term if we are to restore the proper working conditions that are to be enjoyed by our prison staff.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118131824	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118131825	Those were several questions, and I have 30 seconds, but I will do what I can to answer as clearly as possible. It is clear that crime is falling and other ways of punishing it have been found. So the ones left in the prisons are the harder-boiled types. At least we see that more and more, and that, of course, puts pressure on staff. Then it is the case that I am completely open to discussing the number of prison officers when we are about to make a new deal for the Department of Criminal Services. There, then, we need to have a discussion on how to improve sections and how to give officers better working conditions and what number of officers are then needed. It will probably be going too far to go deep into it, because it will require some research into what is going on today. And now my time has already passed. I can answer much more of the questions put by the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118131910	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118131912	Thank you. I will deal with an article which is actually quite new and which is about Christmas gifts. It was something surprising to me. It was about Christmas presents for the inmates in a prison in East Jutland. Unfortunately, the employees got nothing, but the prisoners got, and there I think it's just an isolated case, it has to be said that it might be said for the system that both the Minister and I work with, that we think too much of the inmates, of the criminals, and then we really forget those we have the obligation to ourselves, namely the employees. Does the Minister think that it is a general picture that too often we forget our prison officers and consider the inmates, the criminals?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118131958	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118132000	So, my position is clear: I'm on the tighter line on this. I just wanted to say that it is the employees who have to decide, not the inmates. To the example of the Christmas presents, when I saw it last night in a newspaper, I was also about both to get short of breath and to pass out and hit my head on the table, because I thought: that simply cannot be true. Is it really true that one can be told that the employees have sometimes gained recognition in the form of a marzipangris or a book of jokes? I didn't believe my eyes when I read it. I fully agree that this position is not just about this case; we must work on it when we are going to make a new settlement on criminal justice. I think it is time to ask ourselves under what conditions we are running prisons in Denmark. It's not too bad for the inmates, but it's too bad for the employees if we don't treat them properly.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118132052	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118132052-2	I am glad the Minister says so. I want to know how quickly we can do something, because I think it's a long time to wait for a new multi-annual agreement for the Department of Criminal Services. I really think that there is enough material to enable us to quickly start thinking about how we can make it much more attractive to be a prison guard. I believe that the employees we have now feel that there is a great deal of pressure on them. I would like us to sit down there and find out what we can do here and now before we make any multi-annual agreement. I think it would be worth taking with me. Then I would like to ask the Minister how the prisons in Eastern Europe are going, which we are very interested in using too, and which I think could have an effect and ease the pressure on our prison officers here at home.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118132129	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118132130	The questioner makes it difficult for me with the many questions when I only have 30 seconds. But I would say, to take the last thing first, that we are doing well, and I look forward to inviting the questioner soon for a cup of coffee where we need to talk a little more about it. 'Cause this stuff about being able to get some prison places would be really good, so foreign criminals could sit there and do their time. In relation to doing something fast, I agree that we cannot wait for a new agreement. We have to look at what can be done here and now, and that is why we are through trawling it all. Then I will call for some quick negotiations, hopefully, and then I hope we can agree to set something in motion in this session so that we can get the prison officers to help.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118132207	Thank you. There is a new question for the Minister of Justice from Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118132210	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118132212	What will the Minister do to ensure video surveillance in Vollsmose, where people with gang relationships have destroyed suspended cameras?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118132220	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118132221	Thank you for that question too. I know that the Fyn Police are doing everything they can to increase the pressure on the criminal gangs and that the police have a strong focus on ensuring police presence in the Bøgeparken in Vollsmose. The presence of the police in the area has generally led to a large number of cases, and the pressure exerted by the police on the gangs has resulted in several imprisonments of people associated with the gang environment. It is absolutely essential to create security in the area, we must do so everywhere in Denmark and there too. Specifically, in relation to video surveillance, it is of course absolutely unacceptable that the cameras set up to create security in Vollsmose should be subjected to vandalism by people with gang relationships. The police are in close dialogue with the housing companies and the municipality about the problems in Bøgeparken. In this context, it is also discussed what measures can be taken to prevent the cameras from being subjected to vandalism. As the questioner knows, we are currently working in the Ministry of Justice on high pressure with a new biker and gang package, and my goal is that we come all the way around the issues associated with the biker and gang environment, so we get bikers and gang members put under maximum pressure.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118132339	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118132340	Thank you for your answer. Now all of a sudden, we moved from those who deal with these people when they go to prison to what happens before they go to prison. And it has to be said that there is at least quite a lot of pressure on our police, a very great deal of pressure, I think we can say, the greatest which may have been on our police for, indeed, almost generations. It also manifests itself by the fact that there are some who think they can behave as they want, because it is without consequence, for example, these gangs in Odense who think they should decide where cameras are hanged and where cameras are not hanged and who think you can just pick them down or patch them up. That is simply not good enough. I want to ask the Minister very directly: when can we expect these cameras to be back on hold, and when can we expect there to be enough police presence to keep these gangs down?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118132431	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118132433	That's a very good question. Yes, that is all the questioner's question, but it is in this context that we share an agreement on the police. And in connection with the 2017 Finance Act, we have also made an agreement to train more officers. It's gonna take a while, yeah. As far as the cameras are concerned, that is why I say it is a good question and a huge challenge. Because these cameras aren't just the police; it's also the housing company that's setting up cameras. And then the police try best to guide the housing company about what they can do. The police do it, they're more present. They're in Vollsmose. The problem is there I think the questioner agrees with me that we can't have a cop standing under each camera and watching that nothing happens. The art is gonna be working together, so we're gonna make sure we somehow monitor what's going on. Well, it's kind of hard to say that I can guarantee that from that day on no one will take the cameras down, because I can't.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118132524	Thank you. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118132525	So let me make another suggestion. I remember that when we made the multi-year agreement, one of the things that the Conservatives, the Minister for Justice's own party, cared a lot about, these mobile police stations, that is, that you could drive out and establish some kind of presence. Then you could be there a few days, a few weeks, a few months, until the situation had sort of calmed down again. Could it not be imagined that it could be used in this context, so simply make sure that there is a permanent presence of police, not just patrolling and driving through, but that there is a permanent presence of police to grab hold of these crooks if they had to try again to pull these cameras down?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118132604	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118132605	Well, it is true that the whole idea of mobile police stations is a very warm one, because I think it is an effective way to have a police station in a particular place for a period of time. How is this to be organized, and is it my job to organize it? It may not be, but I would like to go into a more detailed discussion of what it is that works best in terms of creating security in Vollsmose. Because I fully agree that citizens must be safe. And these cameras are supposed to be hanging there if we tell them to hang there and if the housing company tells them to hang there. So I am happy to enter into a dialogue with the questioner about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118132640	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118132642	I'm glad. I also think that much of this might be a resource issue simply because there are as few officers as there are now. That is why I would like to ask you a very simple question: can we expect more police officers in Funen's police department in one year's time than there are today? I mean, are there more real cops in uniform in 1 year than there are today?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118132706	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118132707	We are educating some more, and where they are being placed, where they are going to be, I do not need to have nailed in today. On the whole, we also have the benefit of discussing this year's future entry into the police force for the coming year. We made a two-year deal last time. But exactly where the individual cops are going, I think I should refrain from giving any guarantee of right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118132737	Thank you. There's a new question, and it's for the Secretary of Defense by Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118132746	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118132748	Thank you. How does the Minister of Foreign Affairs assess that it says so, but there must be the Minister of Defence's security policy situation in Denmark after the stories of the last month about Russian hacker attacks in the United States and Europe, among other things. referred to in Berlingske on 10 January 2017: "Europe is getting ready for political cyberattacks from Russia"?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118132810	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118132812	This is a very relevant issue, because it is an issue that will become increasingly urgent. Denmark is facing a serious and increasingly complex threat picture. There are a number of threats that are intruding. This concerns, among other things: on terrorism, extremism and a more assertive Russia. After all, one of the most serious threats to our increasingly digitised society is cyber attacks by state and non-state actors. As described in the article in the Berlingske Tidende referred to, it is carried out inter alia. attacks aimed at achieving strategic and political objectives in other countries. The cyberattack on the Democratic Party in the United States shows that the threat is real. Similar threats could easily occur in Europe and in Denmark. Cyber attacks have thus become a political tool which Denmark and our close partners and allies have to deal more and more with. In its recent risk assessment, the Defence Intelligence Service emphasises that the cyber-threat against Denmark is very high. Danish authorities and companies are continuously under attack, and the Defence Intelligence Service considers that this is a persistent threat to Danish interests. After all, it is no secret that Russia is active on this front and that Russia is using cyber attacks to advance its political agenda. Therefore, we take it very seriously and will strengthen our protection against cyber attacks. Much has already been done in this area, both with strengthened legislation and the provision of funds, but the nature of the threat and the rapid development mean that we must continue to strengthen our digital defences so that we are even better at protecting Denmark from cyber attacks. We must constantly look at whether the authorities have the right tools in terms of technology, resources and legislation in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118133025	Thank you. And that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118133026	Thank you to the Secretary of Defense. To begin with, I would just like to sign both for the defence minister's answer, but also for the answer that we have to constantly assess whether the authorities have the right tools. I asked this question from a broader perspective about the security policy situation, that is why. It was also mentioned a little by the Minister for Defence, and in that light it could only be interesting as a follow-up to hear, if we spread it a little further than the cyber attacks, that since we know that Russia is very active on this front, when we know that what the Secretary of Defense himself calls a more self-sustaining Russia also poses a more complex threat to Denmark, it should then, in the opinion of the Secretary of Defense, be part of our consideration in connection with the establishment of the Nord Stream gas pipeline and also the consideration, which has also been advanced in the Danish press, about allowing Gazprom to keep pipes etc. On Bornholm?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118133132	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118133134	I think it is two different things. One thing is if Gazprom gets a base in Rønne or where it might be, and whether it can be used for espionage or not espionage. I will not be able to answer that today, I simply know too little about it. However, as far as the Cybert rush is concerned, it can be said that it is not certain that the next wars will be wars, as we traditionally think of them. It could be, and that's what's the creepy perspective of this war being to destabilize the enemy, if you may say so. And if you hack into the energy supply, as they did in Ukraine, where you went in and hacked the Ukrainian energy supply system, and where it took up six months to get it restored, you can think of what would happen in Denmark, which is a digitalised country, probably one of the most digitised countries, if you went into hospital systems etc. That would create a panic among the people, and that is what we have to protect ourselves against.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118133256	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118133257	In fact, I very much agree with the last part of the defence minister's reply. I do not necessarily agree with the first part. What is my whole point, also with my follow-up question, is to say that it has little impression that the government would like to separate the two discussions and say that on the one hand there are some security policy assessments which are both about cyberattacks and about a more assertive Russia, troop building off the Baltic countries, etc., but on the other hand we have a commercial assessment that is my claim that the Secretary of Defense is allowed to answer the whole question of Nord Stream. These are the things I would like the government to have a comprehensive picture of and that the government was considering whether we should not put the two discussions together in an overall security policy assessment of our relationship with Russia.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118133349	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118133350	The Prime Minister explained yesterday on Mette Frederiksen's question about Nord Stream what the status is in these discussions, which are partly the commercial aspect and partly a strategic aspect. However, I do not wish to depart from the assessment made yesterday by the Prime Minister. I can only see as a new Minister of Defence, who is now being put into the threats against Denmark, that this is quite serious, and that is also why I have felt the need, as well as pointing out that we are facing some new threats. The government will eventually have to decide on Nord Stream, and that will of course be taken into account.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118133441	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118133442	Thank you. Then I just think, as I started by saying, that the last thing I will sign is that the Secretary of Defense will work to constantly see if the authorities have the right tools. I believe that we in the Social Democrats are very much in agreement with the fact that there is both a very concrete and serious threat at many different levels. Finally, I would like to say that I do not think we have finished discussing the whole Nord Stream issue yet either.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118133509	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118133510	I can confirm that last one. After all, no decisions have yet been taken and no application has been made for Nord Stream from Gazprom, so the matter is not relevant in this way. But I am pleased with the questioner's interest in these questions, because these are very fundamental issues, and that is many years ago, I would have liked to say that we have taken an interest in what is going on in our neighbourhood. After all, we have been very concerned about fighting terrorists in Iraq, Afghanistan, Syria, but can see with this changed threat picture that we need to focus more on our neighbourhood.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118133557	Thank you. The question is closed. The next question is to the Minister for Business by Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118133604	Here you go for the reading of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118133605	Thank you. How will the Minister ensure that bureaucracy does not stand in the way of coastal protection projects like Jyllinge?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118133614	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118133616	Thank you for the question. I would like to start by emphasising that I have a very great understanding of the challenges that Roskilde Municipality and the citizens of Jyllinge face. Having said that, I must of course stress that I cannot go into a specific case in Jyllinge or in the independent board dealing with the Jyllinge case. As Minister of Business from 1 January 2017, I have been responsible for the Nature and Environmental Complaints Board, which among other things. addresses complaints related to coastal protection projects under the Coastal Protection Act, including whether a project is legal. The Nature and Environmental Complaints Board will only be responsible for the appeal proceedings if complaints are lodged against, for example: a municipality's decision in relation to a coastal protection case. The Nature and Environmental Complaints Board deals with approx. 2,000 complaints a year and there are complaints in a wide range of laws in various ministerial areas. The average processing time in the Nature and Environmental Complaints Board has in recent years fluctuated between approx. 190 and 350 days. A number of cases include: The coastal protection area has been longer. This is, of course, totally unreasonable and inappropriate. I can also say that a matter has arisen in the Nature and Environment Complaints Board. It is inappropriate if the length of proceedings in the Board of Appeal is in the way of good and relevant projects. That is why the previous government has set aside 23 million. kr. to an extraordinary effort, which will get the created case-suckle in the Nature and Environmental Complaints Board out of the world in 2017. With the additional funds, the Government wishes to give particular priority to, inter alia: the case of coastal protection projects and other socio-economicly important matters. It is the ambition that the pending cases in these areas will be resolved by the summer of 2017. The Government's aim is that the average duration of proceedings in the cases previously dealt with in the Nature and Environmental Complaints Board will be reduced in the long term and lastingly less than six months.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118133812	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118133813	Thank you. Without going into the specific case, but just to use it as a case example, it is the case that in Roskilde and Egedal Municipalities there is a coastal protection project funded by the municipality and the citizens. They have done exactly what we, as a state, want from them. Such a project must go through a number of complaints bodies. A complaint may be lodged against the EIA, which may be brought against Roskilde Municipality's promotion of the case, which may be complained of by the Protection Board's decision, which may be appealed against decisions relating to protection of watercourses which may be complained of in relation to decisions relating to river basin regulation, and may finally, if appropriate, be complained about decisions relating to expropriation. This means that we have a system of rules at the moment where, if you are opposed to such a coastal protection project, you can actually train the project for many years. Is that appropriate? Or is it the view of the government that the various complaints which, for reasons of legal certainty, the environment and the like, must be able to be run through and dealt with properly should be able to run in parallel rather than continuously, so that we do not have to wait for the matter to be dealt with in a single review body until the last one is over? In other words, should we instead be able to complain and deal with our complaints together in relation to these bodies, so that they run in parallel and thus faster? And wouldn't the Minister also confirm that the Minister has promised the citizens of Jyllinge that their complaint in relation to these bodies that I have mentioned should be over by the summer of 2017? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118133956	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118133957	[Sound emission]... the part dealing with the Nature and Environmental Complaints Board will be arranged before the summer of 2017. As a government, we have set aside 23 million. kr. in order to create extraordinary efforts to deal with the cases, so that the coastal protection cases in the Nature and Environmental Complaints Board will be completed before the summer holiday. I cannot, of course, go into detail on this matter, even in the coastal protection law, but I would like to point out, in relation to this tale, that the authorities have come to a standstill in terms of coastal protection and the treatment of coastal protection, because that is simply not correct. The Minister for the Environment and Food has launched a number of very good initiatives in this area, and for a detailed examination of the measures he has initiated, I have to refer to him. Finally, I can also say that I am aware that yesterday, 17 January, the Minister for the Environment and Food had a meeting with KL and a number of municipalities concerned about how we can further prepare ourselves for the future events.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118134100	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118134101	That is, of course, a fine answer, but it is just not the answer to what I am asking. Will the Minister not respond to the complaints I made? Should the complainants be able to be treated in parallel so as to complain about the local authority's promotion of the case, about conservation boards, protection of the river, river regulation and expropriation, instead of the complaints being dealt with on a continuous basis? Is that the government's position?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118134122	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118134124	As Minister of Business, I have assumed responsibility for the area at the turn of the year, and in relation to the appeal procedure, the government has already taken several steps to ensure that it takes place effectively and quickly. A broad majority, in which the author's party was also present, decided shortly before Christmas to set up two new boards in this area, namely the Board of Appeal and the Board of Appeal for the Environment and Food, and the Government's aim is to reduce the average duration of proceedings in the cases previously dealt with in the Nature and Environment Complaints Board to less than six months in the long term. The board that we have then placed in the House of Name in Viborg is a board where we have gathered a number of Boards of Appeal and Appeal. We have done so in order to create the best opportunities to deal with matters as quickly as possible, and it is the Government's ambition that these matters should be dealt with as quickly as possible for the benefit of citizens and the municipality.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118134211	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118134211-2	I agree that the complaints that end up in the Nature and Environment Complaints Board must, of course, be dealt with quickly. The processing time has exploded under the current government, and it is of course sad, so that the processing time has to be brought down, and we fully support that. However, would the Minister not make every effort to answer whether it is the government's view that the various complaints processes can run in parallel instead of continuously, so that the complaint process can be run in parallel and should not wait with the next appeal body until the last appeal body is over?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118134242	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118134243	I am making a great deal of effort on behalf of Denmark and the Danes, which is why we have also ensured that the processing period is very much reduced. With the appropriation granted by the previous government, this means that the cases which may have been pending for several years now come down to less than six months. It's a giant quantum leap forward. With regard to the various procedural steps, I would say that some are, of course, in the Ministry of the Environment and Food, and some are in the House of Counsel, and we will of course have as a priority that those matters should be dealt with as quickly as possible for the sake of the citizens, for the sake of the municipalities. A number of concrete measures have already been taken, the Minister for the Environment and Food is working on further measures and has a very high priority, and I have also as Minister, and the government has said that we will do this on behalf of the citizens and the municipalities, so that there will be opportunities to create relevant coastal protection projects as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118134329	Thank you. The question is closed. The next question is to the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior by Mr. Morten Bødskov, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118134338	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118134339	Thank you for that, President. The question is simple: does the Minister not think that there are limits to what welfare benefits should be awarded to competition?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118134349	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118134351	Thank you for the question and for the interest in competition exposure, because there is precisely a need to step up efforts in this area, which is why the issue is extremely relevant. It is about making better use of resources, which means that we can either have the same service for less money or more service for the same money. It is not crucial for the government whether it is the private or the public sector that carries out the tasks, so from the outset there are no limits to the tasks that can be carried out in competition. However, I have also publicly mentioned that the primary school area is an example in which we do not intend to do so anyway, because there is already an indirect exposure to competition through free school legislation today. There is not exactly the same tradition of competition in the more soft welfare areas as in the technical areas, and this is also an area in which the government is open to doing so to a greater extent than has been the case in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118134455	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118134456	Thank you. I believe that it is easier for those who may be listening to this debate to understand what the Minister is saying if this is the way to equate competition with the privatisation of welfare, because basically that is what this is all about. This is also emphasized when you read this article, which is based on the question where the Minister says: My goal is full competition for welfare. There, too, the Minister says what he is saying here, that although the primary school is a bit of an exception, as the Minister says, otherwise it will just have to go out there. There are no limits to what can be put on competition or privatised. That is the key question: why is there not? Basically, this is a question of what kind of welfare society we want; what kind of public sector should be at the heart of our welfare society. After all, we have chosen a Danish or Scandinavian • some call the Nordic welfare model with a high level of tax funding, which guarantees citizens free and equal access to welfare services in selected core areas, especially the elderly, childcare, primary school, education and other areas. That is why the question now is whether that is what the Minister intends to do about, that is to say, free and equal access to these services. After the statement that we want the full competition for welfare, that is to say the possible full privatisation of welfare, the question to the Minister also arises as to whether what the Minister wants and what the government wants is increased user charges.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118134649	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118134650	In any case, it was good that the questioner came to the Parliamentary Chamber and was asked the question, because then we can clarify the misunderstanding that we have about the fact that the suspension of competition and privatisation are the same. Competition deferral is precisely that more people can offer a job, as far as both private players and the public authorities themselves are concerned. This means, therefore, that what is important when we find out what kind of public sector we are going to have is that the public sector like is ordering the service, that the public sector, so to speak, buys the service in the smartest place. Because what the questioner says is quite correct: what kind of public sector do we want? And the government does not want a public sector that wastes taxpayers' money. That is why we want increased competition.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118134746	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118134747	After all, the Minister himself mentioned this: increased exposure to competition can lead to more privatisation. That's what the minister said. Either the public can win the job, so to speak, or a private company can win the job. After all, this has been seen in some places with very little success for the citizens who make use of it, for example in the area of the elderly. Let us take an average Danish municipality and look at the older area. The Minister imagines that the entire area of the elderly in a municipality such as: In future, we will have to open up our competition with the possibility of private companies taking over the task.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118134830	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118134830-2	In the first place, I imagine that we will have a very good dialogue with the municipalities as to where they think it would be good to continue along the road to competition. We have been able to see that things stopped a little when the questioner and his party had the power of government, but that there was actually a good stall until then. Because this is precisely about ensuring that taxpayers do not have to pay for a service they do not get in the real world. I think it does not matter to the citizen whether it is public or private who provides a service. I think what the citizen wants is a good service to the least possible money, so that, when you are a citizen, you have a good service experience, and when you are a taxpayer, you do not pay for unnecessary bureaucracy and meaningless work. That is what is crucial, so it is what the questioner said earlier about what kind of public sector we want. We want a public sector that provides the best possible service for the least possible money.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118134933	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118134935	The minister also belongs to a party which has said that you will not just have zero growth in the public sector • you will have minus growth in the public sector. The Minister could therefore be suspected of working to ensure that it is not just about the same money that we spend on welfare, either still being spent in the public sector or being used to pay a private company to provide, for example, care for the elderly or childcare. It may well be that a shortcut was taken here to actually get a smaller public sector. We have seen this before with former bourgeois governments, who have said and let us stay at the previously mentioned municipality, namely the elderly care of the municipality of Herlev, that there had to be a quarter of it almost forcibly excommunicated, that is to say away from the municipality. Is this the way in which the government goes, in other words, with compulsory tenders, less public sector and thus also increased user charges?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118135031	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118135033	It is very thought-provoking that the questioner reveals himself to open microphones, namely that it is the costs themselves that are interesting to the questioner and that they must be as high as possible. What the government is proposing is that we should be able to provide either the same service for less money or better service for the same money. The opposite view is, of course, that money will be spent on something that the citizen will not benefit from. I think it is a pity that the Social Democratic Party has a one-eyed focus on the fact that public spending should just be the highest possible to the detriment of Danish taxpayers.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118135112	Thank you. The question is closed. The next question is also addressed to the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior by Mr. Morten Bødskov, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118135120	Here you go again for a reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118135122	Thank you. Does the Minister consider that, for example, emergency functions can be carried out in hospitals and the placement of vulnerable children, so that they can be carried out by a private company?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118135134	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118135135	Citizens' tax money must be spent best and most effectively. That was also the answer to the previous question, and there is, from the outset, no area that is sacred in relation to the involvement of private actors. This government has the courage to put an end to the habit of public service. Of course, it must continue to be the individual municipality or region that decides on the level of service, but it is important for us to say that there is no reason to waste money that does not become a real service for citizens. This means that we are providing a model whereby the citizen gets the best possible service and the taxpayer is not plagued more than is absolutely necessary. And I also believe that you will have a better working environment and a more exciting work for the people who have to carry out the tasks, when you can actually spend time on core service and not on unnecessary things.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118135238	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118135239	It actually sounded like an incredibly long answer. What the Minister is actually just saying is that the answer to this question I am going to read the question again: does the Minister think that, for example, competition can be postponed, i.e. the privatisation of emergency functions in hospitals and the placement of vulnerable children, so that it is carried out by private companies? Yeah, he means that. And the Minister also believes that there is an similarity between the privatisation of emergency services in hospitals or the placement of vulnerable children, for example, and the provision of services to citizens when they get to the emergency function in the hospital; it does not just improve, it also becomes cheaper. That is how the Minister's thinking must be understood. That is why I think it is by no means reassuring that the government is now ready to privatise, to deploy emergency functions in hospitals and to house children. Because if you read the article in which the Minister has given a great deal, you have to say, frankly interview about his view of the public sector, you can see that that is what is being said directly. And even though the Minister says here that it is of course the responsibility of the municipalities and regions, the Minister also says that we will enter into a dialogue with the municipalities and regions to promote this, so that we can promote a policy of privatisation, the suspension of competition, among other things. emergency functions in hospitals and also placements of exposed children. We are now in a situation this summer, where the new economy for regions and municipalities is to be negotiated. Will the government for those negotiations then fight for increased privatisation of basic welfare tasks?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118135433	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118135434	As far as I know, there is an old Arab proverb about having two ears and one mouth. I have a feeling that the questioner is equipped vice versa, understood in that it is not really being heard what is being said. I might perhaps have some specific ideological considerations, but that is actually not what I am answering the questions put by the questioner. What I am saying is: for us in the government, it is not crucial whether it is the private or the public who carry out the tasks. What is important is that citizens receive the best possible service for the least possible money. I am sorry that the Social Democrats are not interested in helping to solve that task. The question asked was this: Does the Minister think that some specific examples can and did be found? To this I replied that in so far as competition can be put off anything but must one? After all, this is another issue, and this is the dialogue that we must now have with local authorities and regions in particular.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118135536	Thank you. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118135538	In fact, I ask the Minister's position, so I ask him: does the Minister believe that these areas, i.e. emergency functions in hospitals and, for example, the placement of children at risk, are open to competition? Is the Minister serious? And you have to understand that the minister thinks you can. That's what the minister says, isn't it? Now the minister says yes. I have a mouth and two ears, so I think we're talking about the same wavelength right now. The Minister therefore believes that there is room for competition in hospitals and the placement of our vulnerable children. I just need a yes or no. I understand that this is a 'yes' and that the Minister thinks so.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118135620	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118135622	One can say that we can already streamline the work of the Folketing if it has an interest. Well, I'd like to say that as a starting point, sir. Morten Bødskov assumes that when I give an interview and say what I mean, that's what I mean. It is, in fact, a very good concept. I just think you should be aware that this isn't standing still. For example: it is currently the case that there are a large number of Sjællandske municipalities with Holbæk in the lead who are joining the new country. There is a plan to pursue competition in the specialized social field. And it is precisely a question of making sure that the tax dollars are paid as much as possible, because what you do is that you say: it may be private people who can do the best; it may also be that it is the public who can do the best. But it is incredibly difficult to argue for the opposite. What the questioner stands for is: we will not find out who can do the best for the least possible money. That is what the questioner stands for, that is to say, to make it as expensive as possible; for as much money as possible. This must be the starting point if you do not want to put out competition.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118135724	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118135725	No, Minister, that is not the starting point. The starting point is that my party and others have also helped to create a welfare society where there are some basic elements that we take good care of and develop together. It is, for example, the most vulnerable children in our society and that people can go to hospital when they need urgent treatment. There must be common security, and it is a value for a society to develop and take care of it together. It does not matter to us whether it is the community that performs and develops it or whether it is a private company. So summing up, it has to be said that the Minister believes that there are no limits to what can be put on competition and privatised. That is correct, we understand. Nor does the Minister believe that there is any problem in, for example, putting out or privatising emergency services in hospitals or placing our most vulnerable children and young people.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118135833	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118135834	Well, I would like to thank you for being shadowed in that boxing match, sir. Morten Bødskov has had, understood in that way, that you are stuck with some old ways of looking at things instead of looking at how we can make sure to provide better service to the citizens who expect, of course, to get a good service from the public sector. That's how far we agree. What is at issue then is whether we should try to get it at the lowest possible price or whether we should try to get it at the highest possible price. Sir. Morten Bødskov and the Social Democrat stand for the last point of view, while the government stands for having the best possible service for the least possible money. And if you really want the welfare society well, you should get into the fight and make sure that we can also deliver welfare in the future. That is the task to which the Social Democratic Party unfortunately does not provide an answer today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118135928	Thank you. The next question is to the Minister for Employment by Mr. Bent Bøgsted. There's a co-questioner, sir. Claus Kvist Hansen
ParlaMint-DK_20170118135938	Here you go, sir. Bent Bøgsted to read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118135942	Thank you, President. The question is: what steps does the Minister intend to take to get 30,000 more cash aid recipients to work in addition to the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule, which has been adopted?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118135959	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118140000	Thank you for the question. First of all, I must welcome the fact that things are going well in the Danish labour market. As you know, employment is increasing and unemployment is falling. This is something that we in the Folketing can only be very happy to see. This is important both for the people who get a job, but not least also for the Danish economy. With the ceiling on cash benefits, the 225-hour rule and the integration benefit, we have made some essential changes so that it is now worthwhile for people in the cash benefits system to work. Now we are also going to use the burgeoning recovery to bring more people into the labour market. As you know, there are 764,000 people of working age who receive public support, and it costs growth and prosperity, which will of course finance the Danish welfare society if we do not make a greater effort to bring in some of the people who are able to work. That is why I do not share the view of several prominent economists that the potential to increase labour supply further by getting people away from public support is now exhausted. I think that is simply wrong. That is why it is also important to note in this context that, in connection with an interview in the Stock Exchange, I have drawn out examples of calculations that, for example, if we are going to have an interview in the Stock Exchange, we are going to be able to do so. they received approx. 30,000 job-ready cash-aid recipients entering the labour market, public finances could be strengthened by approx. 71⁄2 billion. kr. Every year it would also be a huge step in relation to those people who today do not have a job and if you can just get 5,000 of them in jobs, it is therefore 1.25 billion. kr. annual. In other words, it shows that there is a great potential to increase employment. I have also noted that in the interview I gave to the Danish People's Party, where there were statements from the Danish People's Party, the Danish People's Party agrees. What does the government intend to do in the future? It is the case that we in the Danish Parliament will be discussing the introduction of a job premium in the spring, which will make it even more attractive to move from passive transfer to a job on the Danish labour market. It is just one of the initiatives, along with what we have written in the government base, that we will increase employment by 55,000-60,000 people by 2015, and there will be concrete proposals for how this can be done later in 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118140226	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118140228	Thank you. After all, it cannot be said that there were actually many solutions in what the Minister brought forward, in addition to what has been achieved. However, one of the things you can see by getting the recipients of cash benefits into jobs is that the job centres create more contact with employers, helping to sell what should be said about the ability of the cash benefit recipient to work to employers and convincing employers that they can use the cash benefit recipient. And in these cases they can also help to ensure that the recipients of cash benefits have an opportunity to obtain an upskill which many of them probably lack. This is something that we in the Danish People's Party think should be looked at. Because it cannot help saying that we want to increase supply by 30,000. Because how are you gonna do that? We already have this measure, where according to the 225-hour rule they need help finding a job, and it's small jobs. But, of course, we should like those who are ready to work and capable of working to be able to have permanent employment and to be able to enter the labour market. Is it not reasonable, then, that we should also look at ensuring that the municipalities and job centres make that effort and make contact with the employer? Because there are many of these people who are unable to go out and sell themselves to an employer themselves, because if that was what it was all about, they would probably have been at work. So I guess the solution isn't that we're just saying that we're gonna get more people in jobs and that they're gonna get a job prize. But if they are not able to find a job themselves, they need help to find it, and then the job prize doesn't help anything. It's like you think that just making a job prize, they're gonna get a job. However, a great many of them need to be helped, that they can get guidance, that they can get someone to help them find a job, and that someone is making agreements with the employer. Is that not the way we should go and is the Minister willing to look at it? I have spoken before about the fact that we in the Danish People's Party want to be part of it, but it is like being pushed aside all the time. Is that not the kind of thing we need to do in the future to ensure that they can get to work?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118140435	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118140436	Perhaps I would like to start by clarifying something, because I think there will be a disagreement here, which I do not think there is any evidence at all, and then I will come back to it with the job centres. When I chose to comment on Nina Smith in relation to the Stock Exchange, I think it is a declaration of failure to say that there is nothing more to be done in relation to those who are today ready to enter the labour market. That is, of course, what Nina Smith said, that she did not think that one should be interested in it, as it were. That is where I choose to say that there is, at least, potential in relation to, among others. the 30,000 cash benefit recipients who are ready for work. Then I fully agree that one cannot just say one to one, and I do not think I have mentioned in any way that it is for them to find those jobs. I am fully aware that there is a big difference between the job centres and I am very concerned about it, and I do not think that during the time I have been a minister here it is only short-term that has pushed something aside in discussing how the job centres can be better at helping our cash aid recipients to gain a foothold in the labour market...
ParlaMint-DK_20170118140542	Yes, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118140543	I do not think that the Minister has done so either, because now the Minister is also new in this area, and we have made a great deal of legislation, which may not yet be working. So here in Denmark there is such a tendency that, if you do not see that there is an effect of it in a few months, then there is always a journalist who is ready to say that it does not work and that now the Minister must do something more. But that is not where I am going, that is to say to press the Minister in the same way as journalists press the Minister and the Members of Parliament and say that you must do something now. However, we would like to see the measures we have taken to work, but we would also like to look at what is missing in order to help the recipients of cash benefits. Because I agree with the Minister that there are a great many people who can work and who would like to have a job and who are actually doing a great deal to get a job, but they cannot make the agreements themselves with employers. And then we also have to look at whether we should not sacrifice a little on upgrading in connection with perhaps making an appointment agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118140642	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118140644	Compared to the job centers I may just owe an answer to... at least I'm going to be inspired by some of the job centers that are doing a really good job. It is no more than 2 days since I was at Mother's, where there is one of the job centres that makes it best in terms of creating company contact between those who are unemployed, for example. the recipients of cash benefits, and the undertakings. Many could learn from what you do at Mother's in order to make sure that you have help for the companies. So we need to get much better at that. How? I will discuss this with the Danish People's Party, so what can be done further to strengthen our job centres. But it's not gonna be right now in Parliament. The second part of that is, of course, that I very much agree that when it comes to the effect, you also have to take it a little slowly sometimes. What has been introduced here, as a majority in the Danish Parliament has done, and where the Danish People's Party has been involved, will have an effect in the course of 2017, which is why we must also be careful that we do not just embark on all kinds of new legislation. Now we must ensure that the instruments adopted work, and I am very calm about that being a success.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118140746	Thank you. And then there's a co-questioner. Here you go, sir. Claus Kvist Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118140751	Thank you. And thank you to the Minister for good answers. When you are a co-questioner, you follow the course of the battle along the way, and I think I will simply rewind the initial answer given by the Minister, because I noted with great satisfaction that the Minister felt that there is a great potential for the economy to get cash benefit recipients into the labour market. It was so little more tricky for me to decode what measures you really intended to take. I heard the Minister say that concrete proposals will be put forward in a short time, and I would really like the Minister to be able to lift a bit of the veil right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118140831	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118140832	I thought the questioner could do that, and that is also why I chose to give one treat: the job premium, which has been sent into consultation and which is quite publicly available, in which, of course, an economic incentive is given to those who are on passive transfer, so that, if they enter the labour market, they get a tax reduction that makes them get more to themselves. It is one element just to make a concrete proposal. But then I also said in my reply that during 2017 the government will come up with further proposals on what can be done to make it more attractive for people to become part of the labour market rather than being on passive transfer. But this isn't a either or it's a boat and it's also that we learn from some of the job centres that are really good at making contact with companies, because we can see that there are very, very large differences. Now I know that Mr. Claus Kvist Hansen comes from an area close to me, that is Horsens, and I think that if you compare Horsens with Hedensted, you will think that these are two very different worlds in terms of how they are able to get people into the labour market, and it is even in the same geographical area. So there is a great potential for doing something even today in the existing system.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118140938	Then it's mr. Claus Kvist Hansen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118140940	Thank you. Well, I'm running a little on a different track, because I don't think I'm gonna get any more concrete moves out of the minister. The question of getting the recipients of cash benefits into work is also a little related to the number of jobs. As far as I am concerned, I think that the number of jobs is not something that you can adjust and turn on, and that politically you may wish that there will now suddenly be 2 000-3 000 or 30.000 additional jobs. I believe that we have a number of jobs which are quite independent of what to say about the social situation. But what you can screw up is, of course, how many people are looking for those jobs, and I am thinking of the fact that if there is a fight for the jobs, the Minister has considered the possibility that the fight for the unskilled jobs, for example. could be reduced slightly by restricting access to Denmark by EU citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118141035	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118141036	I think we are starting to address one of the questions which will come later and which is about what has been done in Austria, and that is where I intend to reply. Claus Kvist Hansen on it. But no, I am not going to start making a special model, one might say, in Denmark, where freedom of movement is not ensured. I think it's actually good for the Danish economy. It helps make us richer. But we need to do something more to ensure that the jobs that are there can be more occupied by some of the many people in Denmark who want a job, but who for many reasons may not be good enough to be made aware that those jobs exist. We must also ensure that companies become more aware of the fact that some people are actually able to take up some of the jobs for which they are asking for workers. And that is where we need to use the recovery that we are entering now to ensure that it can then be done. It is all the more difficult when you are entering a recovery than if you are entering an economic downturn.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118141131	Thank you. And then there's the last round for Mr. Knox. Bent Bøgsted and the minister. Here you go, sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118141134	Thank you. As far as jobs for cash benefits recipients are concerned, there can be great creativity. In a housing association in Brabrand, residents are appointed as evacuators or block ambassadors with the task of greeting other residents and possibly pointing the way • jobs that happen to be designed to live up to the 225-hour rule. These jobs are apparently financed by the Landsbygningsfonden, but I guess that wasn't what was meant by the 225-hour rule. Is it not the case that you have gone beyond the edge here and have actually created some jobs that are not real jobs just so that the housing association can ensure that they still get away with the high level of housing security? It seems kind of weird. Is the Minister ready to take a look at this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118141228	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118141229	I have the overall view that I cannot stand in the Chamber or in a consultation or elsewhere commenting on a concrete example that I do not have enough knowledge of. That is why I would ask you to have the question that Mr. Bent Bøgsted mentions, delivered, and then I have to come back with an answer, because I just don't know what is the reason for what lies behind the way you apparently do it in Aarhus.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118141254	Thank you. That was the end of the question. The next question is for the Minister for Employment, and it is also for Mr. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118141303	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118141306	Thank you, President. What steps does the Minister intend to take to increase the employment rate of refugees to 50%, and does the Minister believe that it is realistic to achieve that objective when it has not succeeded in the last 30 years?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118141321	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118141322	Thank you. Thank you for the question. It is true that the government has an ambitious goal of increasing employment for newly arrived refugees, so every other person is in employment after three years. There is great potential in improving integration. We are talking here about 2.5 billion. kr. The annual rate of increase in employment is about 2.5% per year and the rate of increase in employment is about 2.5% per year. 14,500 full-time persons. I would also like to say here today that, of course, I recognise that it is a difficult task to achieve the ambitious objective that we have set up as a government, but I do not think it is acceptable in any way that so many foreigners do not work and thus do not contribute to Danish society and the Danish welfare state. That is why the government has also taken a large number of initiatives which will help to support better integration. Today we meet the refugees as a job preparation. This is a clear expectation that they can and must work. And we also meet them with an integration programme that now requires integration to take place in the workplace, because this is where you learn the Danish language, and this is where you learn what it means to work in Denmark. As something completely new, we have also made it possible for the individual refugee and company to make an agreement on integration training, where for example. A new refugee can be employed in a 2-year paid internship in a second-year training establishment. In addition, we have, of course, strengthened the incentive to take a job significantly by introducing the integration benefit, the 225-hour rule and a ceiling on cash benefits. In advance, we also propose further initiatives in the field of foreigners in the government framework, and we will, among other things, do so. strengthen the principles of profit for our welfare services. As a government, we will continue to develop and consolidate the work of ensuring a strict, consistent and also realistic foreign policy. Of course, the number of refugees arriving in this country also has an impact on how well we have opportunities to get more refugees into jobs, but I would like to make it clear that it is not in any way acceptable that the employment rate is so low today compared to the refugees who have come to Denmark. We cannot accept this, it must be done differently.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118141523	Sir. Bent Bøgsted, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118141525	Well, that is not something we can disagree on, because it is not acceptable, and the Minister for Employment has now said so. His predecessor in the previous government has said so and in the previous government again and in the government before it. Back to the 1990 governments, back to the 1980 governments, everyone has said that this is not acceptable. And yet we are in a situation today where it has still not been possible to raise the employment rate sufficiently. We still have a large group that does not enter the labour market, regardless of what action is being taken. One of the things that we in the Danish People's Party think we can at least see is that many of the immigrants and refugees who are going to the labour market simply lack a general understanding of how Danish society works, how the labour market works. And as long as they don't understand it, as long as they don't want to adapt to Danish society, the Danish labour market and don't make special demands, they won't get into the labour market, no matter what the minister says, because then there are all kinds of excuses. We saw the last example from Odense, and the Minister is well aware of this, where immigrant women were suddenly actually healthy enough to enter the labour market. There was no problem after you turned the pile around. Is that not the direction in which we should continue, simply to turn the pile and say: Well here is something, and if you do not understand that you must make an effort, then unfortunately we cannot help you, and then you cannot get a benefit either? Well, that's what this is about. Then immigrants and refugees must adapt to Denmark, adapt to the Danish system and the labour market and change themselves. After all, it is not the Danish labour market that has to change for the sake of immigrants; it must be the other way around.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118141709	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118141710	Well, I'm one hundred percent in agreement with sir. Bent Bøgsted. Well, it's hard for me to have a political discussion in this field. I myself have been involved in highlighting the Odense model, namely that you are now going through the bunkers to see what challenges you may have as a cash aid recipient. Unfortunately, in Odense, we have seen some very, very sad figures when people have been on cash benefits for years. But when you look specifically at their cases, they are in a position at least to become ready for activity, in other words to be able in some way to have a link with the Danish labour market. So, yeah, we're gonna put turbo on that. First of all, we must do so because it is not humanly acceptable to simply write people off for decades. We also have to, because this is also about what we are going to use by financial means. So I fully agree that this is one of the ways we have to go, but then we also have to say to the municipalities that there is therefore a need for tightening up here. And I fully agree that, of course, the Danish labour market should not adapt to the refugees who come here. They must accept that they have come to Denmark and thus also have to adapt to the Danish labour market. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118141816	Here you go, sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118141817	If we are not there then it may well be that the Minister of Integration's area is patching up that when refugees and immigrants come to Denmark, they should start by knowing: you have no future in Denmark if you do not know how to adapt to the Danish system; then you have nothing to do here in Denmark? They simply have to accept it from the start, they may have to sign that they accept the Danish system and that they will adapt to the Danish system, otherwise we will not get them into the labour market. We also know that many employers will say no if the refugees and immigrants do not understand the Danish language if they do not learn the language. A lot of people don't care about it. English is not enough, not out in small businesses. Therefore, is it not the case that they should be told from the beginning: Customize the Danish system, the Danish labour market, otherwise you have no future in Denmark, so should you seek another country?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118141904	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118141905	In other words, what I think is important is that, contrary to what we have done in the past, we now meet refugees as a job preparation, and I suppose there is nothing strange about that. If you've been able to escape through several countries, thousands of miles, you probably have some kind of force inside you, and that's only good. That is why it is important to say that, as a starting point, you are ready for work. That's the first part. The second part, that is, what concerns my colleague, the minister of integration, I must ask her to answer. But I fully agree that over the last few decades we have been far too poor to ensure that you contribute to Danish society when you come here. And that also gives a huge challenge to what I would call social cohesion. It is not acceptable that we have so many people, unfortunately also with a non-Western background that is unable to be part of the labour market. Even more needs to be done about this, and it is also one of the priorities that I will have as Minister for Employment. I don't want to hide that at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118142008	Thank you. Then there's an enquirer, sir. Claus Kvist Hansen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118142012	Thank you. It is probably not a state secret that the various integration projects have not really worked over many years. But let us imagine the situation in which the Minister invents the method that is needed. Does the Minister not fear that when more foreigners are integrated into the labour market, they will thereby push weak Danes out of the labour market or prevent the weakest Danes from entering the labour market? So, if it is economically lucrative for a company to employ a refugee or an immigrant, compared to if he should take small Mr. Hansen in, could it not create a form of discrimination or bias in the labour market where Danes feel excluded or are actually excluded? There was an example last year I think it was from the minister's own area with a large company, where it seemed, at least from the outside, as if it were speculating on hiring refugees with a financial grant.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118142113	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118142114	Well, for me, this isn't either-or, it's both-and. I think there is room for us both to get more Danes, if you will say so, into the labour market and more who come to Denmark with, for example. non-Western background, to become part of our working community. The two things are not for me in contrast to each other. We are precisely in the situation, as I also said on an earlier issue, that we are now beginning to see more and more job openings coming, that more labour will be needed. It can be said that we must ensure that some of those who are today on passive support are able to enter the labour market rather than some of those jobs today, for example. become obsessed with people who come from some of the other EU countries. The fact that there's 46%. Of the jobs occupied by people coming from other EU countries: the EU-11 countries that are unskilled jobs are not good enough. We must ensure that at least some of those who are available in Denmark take some of the jobs. It's just not okay. So I think we can actually have a common agenda in some of these fields, although I also know Danish People's Party's overall view of some of the other things. But I mean, it's both-and, it's not either-or.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118142231	Here you go, sir. Claus Kvist Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118142233	Thank you. As far as I remember, it is about 119 000 Eastern workers we have in Denmark at the moment and how much of those who have unskilled jobs, I dare not say. But let's say a third, just to take a number. So it is quite a large number of people that Danes on cash benefits have to compete with in order to enter the labour market and they even have to compete with refugees who may then get a financial grant from the municipality. Can the Minister not see that it may seem a little hopeless for a weak Dane to try to enter the labour market when, like two strong opponents and one even bring money from home, that is. From the municipality?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118142312	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118142313	No, actually I can't, and it also gives me the opportunity to read the answer that I didn't bring with me, but that I have in my head because I think it's such a violent number on the question that Mr. Claus Kvist Hansen's party colleague Mr. Bent Bøgsted dealt with Eastern workers, 119,000. Out of the 119,000 I reported in an answer to Mr. Bent Bøgsted, it is 46 per cent who are unskilled, i.e. in work functions, which are defined as unskilled. So that's a very, very big number. So there is a huge potential in ensuring that some of the cash benefits or job preparation • the 30,000 that we started talking about can fill some of the posts. For that matter, however, this also applies to some of the refugees who do not have an employment rate at all, which is similar to what we see Danes have, so that they also enter the labour market. It will be a really, very good thing for Denmark that they contribute to the Danish society and become part of our community, first and foremost human, but also socio-economic. These are some very, very large amounts we pay for people to be on passive support and that is simply not acceptable.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118142420	Thank you. Then the final question and answer, sir. Bent Bøgsted and then the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118142425	Thank you. Finally, I would like to say that I can hear that we do not have a great deal of disagreement about the need to do something. I look forward to the Minister helping to see how we can tighten the demands on refugees and immigrants when they have to commit themselves on the Danish labour market, so that they not only believe that it is a sleeping pillow they get, but that they must show that they also have the will to integrate into the labour market and take a job and not make special demands; and that this is one of the things we have to work on. I hope the Minister is also ready to participate in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118142504	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118142507	I can say to Mr. Bent Bøgsted, that I would very much like to enter into a dialogue on how we can ensure that we get an even greater incentive to become part of the Danish working community in the labour market. Then we will have to discuss in concrete terms what can be considered in this regard, and we will have to do so. This is very close to my heart. I simply do not think that such a low level of employment is acceptable in any way.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118142531	Thank you. The question is closed. The next question is to the Minister for Employment by Mr. Claus Kvist Hansen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118142538	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118142541	Thank you. Will the Minister support the Austrian proposal that an EU Member State should give priority to its own unemployed citizens over other EU citizens, and only if there are no suitable unemployed citizens to take up the job can labour from other EU Member States be hired?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118142557	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118142558	We discussed it just under the previous question, and I fully agree with the questioner that as many Danes as possible should be able to participate in the Danish labour market and thus be those who fill the jobs we have. That is why I am also surprised, as I said earlier, that we can see that many European citizens in Eastern Europe are dealing with what is equivalent to unskilled work, while at the same time there are unemployed Danes; it was here that the figure is 46 per cent. was mentioned. In good cooperation with the Danish People's Party, the government has already made sure that it is better to work, and it is my expectation that it will lead to more Danes getting into jobs. We can already see good trends, for example. that there have been fewer cash benefits recipients and that there are more cash benefits recipients taking small jobs. I therefore agree with the questioner. However, I do not agree with the means mentioned in the second part of the question, namely that it must first be established that there is not a suitable unemployed person until EU citizens have to be recruited. I believe that this will be both inflexible and bureaucratic and that, in addition, such a proposal would run counter to the Treaty on European Union on freedom of movement, which I have also mentioned earlier in this Chamber. We must not forget that the single market has created hundreds of thousands of Danish jobs. Denmark has benefited greatly from the fact that we have an internal market. So I cannot support the Austrian proposal, but I am fully aware that there are, of course, also challenges associated with free movement. If you have followed the debate, there can be no doubt that I take the challenge seriously. I do so because, among other things, the rules need to be fair and fair so that the people can continue to support the EU project and freedom of movement. And that is also why, at the first Council meeting when we were discussing the Posting of Workers Directive, I was very clear in my reports on behalf of Denmark and, of course, in the whole question of Regulation No. 883, which we will be discussing here in 2017. It acts among other things. is about child benefit and some of the other issues here, and it is clear that we must be very careful that it will not be the European Union that will set the agenda for the national Member States. There is a difference between how to fit in and how to organise yourself nationally.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118142810	Thank you. Here's the questioner, sir. Claus Kvist Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118142812	Thank you. I hear the Minister say that he agrees in principle that it would be good if Danish citizens were the first to take the available jobs. Ten minutes ago I heard the Minister say that it would also be good if immigrants here in Denmark took the very same jobs. But the Minister will not go in and touch it; the Minister will not regulate it. It still leaves away a Dane who stands and can see his job being taken by either a refugee or an Eastern European, and where he has very, very difficult to enter the labour market. Now he can see, as I mentioned earlier, that there are three competitors for the same job, and he may be the weakest. Can the Minister understand that a Dane will feel frustrated to be in this situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118142905	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118142907	But I simply do not accept the premise that Mr. Claus Kvist Hansen has. That is why we can disagree. That's why we're not members of the same party and we're having this discussion. I have to start by saying that if the posts which are being held today are to be filled, for example. by people from some of the new EU countries, were not taken care of, then it could potentially affect the growth and development that we have in Denmark. It is very, very sad that we have, for example. 30,000 job-ready cash benefit recipients who are unable to take the unskilled jobs that exist, i.e. the 46 per cent. out of the 119,000, about 50,000 jobs. It is a dilemma, and it is not, of course, because it is not worthwhile. But I am concerned that it can be done even more, you might say, attractive to be in the labour market. That is also why I mentioned the job prize. However, I do not think that we should do what the Austrian Government has proposed, or at least intend to discuss, as I understand it. Nor am I familiar with the Austrian proposal. We shall have to look at that if it is put forward. But it is not a proposal that I think is in any way a good idea. I believe that it would be all too bureaucratic if one were to sit and keep such a diary on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118143021	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118143023	Unfortunately, bureaucracy is now part of our everyday lives, which we do not at first get around. But regardless of what I hear the Minister say that there are good intentions and that this is a good idea, but in no way will it prevent Danish workers, Danish cash aid recipients, from being out-dated by Eastern European labour force. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118143050	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118143051	Well, actually, I don't quite understand the question. But the truth is that, as I have said a few times, we must make it even more attractive for Danish cash benefits recipients to go from being on cash benefits to entering the labour market. There simply has to be more in the payroll if you take a job and thereby become able to work. That's one part: the carrot has to be bigger. But then, together with the Danish People's Party, we have also been behind a cash aid ceiling, a 225-hour rule, which is now really starting to have an impact. I note that the number of cash benefits recipients has fallen by 4,000. I also see that the number of small jobs has been increasing. So now there is an incentive for us to make even greater efforts to ensure that we are now also part of the Danish labour market. That is the way I think we should go, not to create a system where we say that we do not want freedom of movement and that we do not want to see people wandering around the European Community. Because it will basically make Denmark poorer, and I do not think that will be in anyone's interest.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118143202	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118143203	Now I'm just gonna get a little sneaked out of it by seeing a new one on the chair. In other words, to return to the bureaucracy that the Minister feared before: if it is a matter of proving as an employer that you have made a post in a Danish newspaper and that you have contacted the Danish job centres before hiring Eastern European labour, for example, would the Minister consider this an insurmountable bureaucratic problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118143233	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118143234	Well, I don't want to start at all with companies talking to the job centres. So companies are now recruiting from other places than the job centres. Claus Kvist Hansen is aware. The Job Centres are not the only recruitment But we can only see that there is a very, very big difference between the job centres, which I have also mentioned several times today. So where we could perhaps start by throwing our energy away is, of course, to what Bent Bøgsted was also concerned about, namely to ensure that the job centres are better at helping, for example. Our recipients of cash benefits enter the labour market. It has to be said that there is a huge difference between the job centres, and that is not acceptable at all. So that's where I'm gonna start. And then I will not move into the model that you can only be allowed to hire people from other EU countries if you first make some posting in a job centre. The thinking for me is to see a completely wrong way to go, which I strongly disagree with.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118143335	Thank you to the two gentlemen for today's work. We shall now turn to our esteemed Minister for Health and there is a question from the honourable Member Yildiz Akdogan.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118143351	Yildiz Akdogan is now ready to raise the matter with the Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118143353	Thank you. The question is this: does the Minister think it is a problem that the number of beds has fallen by 11.6%? from 2007 to 2016, while the number of psychiatric patients is increasing?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118143408	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118143409	Thank you to the questioner for that question. As the questioner knows, the regions have direct operational responsibility for organising our regional health services, including psychiatry, and thus also to ensure that there are sufficient beds available for patients. I also have a clear expectation that the regions will follow this closely. If we look at the number of employees in psychiatry, we can see from the figures that in the period 2010 to 2015 we have actually seen an increase of about 10.5 per cent. It is also about the fact that some of what the questioner's own party and the previous government stressed is that there has been a change in the way in which psychiatry is organized in relation to, among other things. outpatient treatments. Having said that, it is not at all right if the lack of beds is responsible for the development which, among other things, is taking place. The daily BT described here at the beginning of the week, when patients are sent home for the weekend, the so-called healthy Friday. That is why I would also like to make it clear that psychiatry printing must be based on a medical assessment. The number of beds is one of the areas that we have also prioritised from a central point of view together, which is why we have set aside targeted money for several bedrooms in the psychiatry. We have allocated 140 million in the 2012-2015 rate pool. kr. for more beds in the psychiatry, and we have made the 40 million with the bet pool agreement here from 2016 to 2019. kr. annual to several beds permanent. These are all initiatives which, in addition to our joint initiative, give priority to 65 million. kr. to the so-called user-controlled beds in psychiatry have been designed both to ensure that patients' need for hospitalisation is met, but also to ensure that resources have been provided from the centre to more beds in psychiatry. That is why, as the author, I have also read the figures. I also know that there is a dialogue about whether, in such a way, the regions have a strong enough focus on the fact that when money from the parties has been put into joint action, among other things. This area, it's gonna have to be regional. This is an area that we are following closely, and it is an area that we also need to follow closely, although the increase in the number of patients can not only be related to the number of beds, but also have to be seen in relation to others. outpatient treatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118143650	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118143652	Thank you for your reply. Psychiatry is suffering, and not a single day goes by when we do not hear that there will then be a doubling of the return of children and young people. We heard about this last November, and this week, in an article from BT this week, we have heard that 12 people are forced into hospital a day. And that's how you can keep doing it. When you look at the numbers, they also show that something is horribly wrong. It is true that, as the Minister says, approx. Two-and-a-half billion. kr. in a joint effort, and later we have also set aside 400 million. kr. targeted some of the most vulnerable psychiatric patients compared to accommodation offers. When you look at it over 10 years, you can see that there are almost 400 beds that have been saved away. On the other hand, there is a large increase in the number of psychiatric patients, so there is something that is not related. When you hear the professional organisations and the patients themselves, they talk about this famous healthy Friday: because there are no seats, it is the case that those who feel the least bad are allowed to just come out and then end up coming back again. And that is, of course, a huge cost to the individual, society, relatives and, above all, the doctors and professionals who work in a fairly pressured environment. So there's something horribly wrong with the psychiatry. That is why I really want to hear what the Minister really thinks about this whole development, with the fact that, although we have set aside money, there is something that suggests that this money is obviously not being targeted. We need beds, and this is what both the National Association SIND and the psychiatrists of the various hospitals and relatives say. They say that patients are being discharged prematurely because there is a shortage of beds and, as I said, it is referred to as healthy Friday. So does the Minister really not think that it is a very worrying development that there are almost 400 fewer beds while the need for treatment is increasing? There's still a huge cry from the organizations and relatives that you just don't do it well enough with these mentally ill patients. I would like to hear the Minister's opinion on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118143935	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118143936	Thank you. A patient must be discharged on a medical assessment and this must not depend on whether there is a shortage of hands during the weekend in a department or whether there is a lack of beds or for other non-medical reasons. That is what we need to stick to, and then it is also the regions which, with the resources we have jointly prioritised, must ensure that there is no slippage on the basis of non-medical decisions in order to ensure that there is sufficient capacity. After all, we have had discussions, including on the part of the parties, with the former Minister for Health in the autumn about the follow-up to the 2.2 billion. kr., we jointly deposed. For example, there is a lack of resources. transparency to see what they've gone to. After all, some of the funds have been decided jointly to go to new facilities, and you can see that the first hospital has been put into service and others are being built in order to ensure better facilities, also in relation to ensuring less coercion in psychiatry and ensuring better conditions for patients. There are also the last 400 million. kr., which we jointly deposed in the autumn, and they must be implemented here in 2017, both in terms of legislation, but also physically, and from 1 January 2018 it means that we have 150 extra beds. But it is clear that we are following this closely, and that is also why the government has decided to conduct a review of the entire psychiatry area, and we will do this together with Danske Regions here in the coming year. Because there is a need to focus on how we ensure that our overall psychiatry will work better. In other words, how we ensure that the desire of the government that patients should have the same rights and should have the same focus as in the somatics also emerges quite clearly, whatever it is regional or in relation to our national priorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118144124	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118144126	Thank you. It is true that it is a medical assessment which must help to ensure that these Fridays do not occur, but nevertheless it does happen. I would like to read a quote from Torsten Bjørn Jacobsen, who is chairman of the Danish Psychiatric Society. He spoke in connection with these forced admissions. He says: "The average hospitalization time is falling and falling. But there is no technological progress that means that people will recover more quickly. We are forced into a situation where hospitalizations are too short. We are dealing here with a professional who speaks, that there is a problem and that they are being pressured. So I would really like to know if the Minister has any suggestions on what we can do so that we avoid raisin Fridays.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118144207	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118144208	After all, some of the money we have allocated together must ensure that we get the capacity up; both the skills of the employees and also the building facilities. However, as I said in my first answer, we have also set aside resources for bed capacity quite specifically. And there we have a task to follow up on the regions, that is to say that it will also be expressed in the psychiatry, so that we can actually see that the funds we have set aside from central teams, whether it is the government or the pool parties together, will also be implemented. And then there is no doubt that the 400 million. kr., we decided last autumn to jointly set aside, which should be implemented here in 2017 and lead to 150 extra beds from 1 January 2018, also play a role in relation to some of the patients who are not sick enough to be in a psychiatric hospital, but still need a specialized offer. So these are, of course, some of the things that we must jointly implement in terms of legislation, but also followed up in this year and on which we are working. And then, as I said, we are going to do a service check on the whole psychiatry area, because we in the government are very aware that there are problems that we need to address.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118144319	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118144320	That was a long answer to a very specific question. Does the Minister have any concrete initiatives to avoid raisin Fridays?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118144329	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118144330	I think I gave a very precise answer to that. In other words, the many initiatives we are implementing right now, whether it is the permanent money for more beds, i.e. the 2.2 billion. kr., we are about to roll out in psychiatry, or the 400 million. DKK, which will lead up to 150 extra beds created here in 2017 • all are about ensuring that there is the capacity available to ensure that the decisions taken in psychiatry are made on a medical basis and not on all kinds of other backgrounds. That is what we have to stick to, and that is also what I will be insisting on in relation to the regions, so that it is medical reasons that can lead to a printing process that is not any of the things we have heard in the press in recent times.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118144413	Thank you. There is another question for the Minister for Health and the questioner is Mrs Yildiz Akdogan.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118144419	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118144422	Thank you. The question is this: does the Minister believe that psychiatric services have sufficient resources to provide proper treatment for people with mental disorders, and what does the Minister think it will do to achieve satisfactory treatment?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118144433	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118144435	Psychiatry must be a priority and the framework for good treatment of people with mental disorders must be in order. If we look at psychiatry, we can see that it has been allocated considerable resources over the last few years, among other things. with the Joint Rate Pool Agreement between 2015 and 2018, we entered into where 2.2 billion has been allocated. kr. to psychiatry, of which 300 million. kr. will be provided annually and made permanent from 2016. In addition, these funds will be used, among other things. extra beds, user-controlled beds, which we also talked about in the previous question, and the 400 million. kr. to special social psychiatric departments, which were set aside in the autumn. In the economic agreements between the regions and the State, substantial amounts have also been given to ensure common patient rights for somatic and psychiatric patients. And I am pleased that, in relation to the great need that has been, in order to increase the capacity of psychiatry, we have not least been able to find more resources for the area in relation to the fact that the number of psychiatric patients has been and is still increasing. Whether the resources are sufficient can always be discussed, both in the field of psychiatry and in other welfare areas, and it is also about how we ensure that the resources actually come out and work for the benefit of the patients, the relatives and also the employees in the sector. There is also something on the back of the policy of which the former government, of which the rapporteur's own party was a part, also focused on the fact that outpatient services, including psychiatry, were also focused. new medications and the possibility of depot medications have enabled several psychiatric patients to be treated outpatients without prolonged admissions. So we should not just focus on the capacity of beds. We also need to have a broader focus on how to develop the entire psychiatric area. We have the side of the government, and we will continue to do so, because there is a need to prioritise the psychiatric area and patients who are entitled to have a strong focus on their needs when it comes to proper treatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118144653	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118144654	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. When you look at the calls that have just been made in the last six months, I think there is a lot to be worried about, and the fact that the Minister says that psychiatry must be a priority, I actually need to see it happen. In November last year it was seen that in the psychiatry of children and young people there had been a doubling of re-hospitals from 2009 until today. Shortly before Christmas Eve there were actually employees in psychiatric departments in Risskov, Aarhus, who were out shouting guard in arms compared to the pressure there was. And most recently, we've seen the police shout and say that they force 12 people a day. So there's a lot of pressure on psychiatry. Somewhere there's something that doesn't work. It may be that the Minister thinks it is the regions that should take responsibility, but there is something that is raging wrong, partly when there are not enough beds and partly when there is a very high number of re-hospitals, whether they are children, young people or adults. And, as I said, there is a frustrated group of relatives, but indeed also of employees, doctors and professionals who do not really know what to do. The Minister then replies that funds have been set aside for this, among other things. in the rate pool and that the psychiatry must be given high priority. I just do not see how psychiatry has been given priority when the government has not even prioritised it in its own government base. It has not been mentioned in a single word, which is why I am surprised that the Minister is replying as the Minister does. Does this new government really not have any other initiatives and initiatives to be a little visionary on behalf of psychiatry? That is, for example, the case. It's about going in and putting the psychiatry on an equal footing with the somatics. Is that something the Minister might want to look at? And if so, are there any other initiatives that the Minister intends to take? I do not think that the Minister should refer to what has already been set aside by funds, but say something about forward-looking measures, so that we do not hear these calls. Because psychiatry suffers, as I said at the outset, and a great many suffer. The next of kin suffers, but the workers who are dealing with these vulnerable groups are also affected. So I really want to hear: what is the Minister's priority?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118144924	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118144925	I would like to repeat some of what we have discussed before, both in consultation, but also in this Chamber, and also with the same question. The word somatik does not appear in the government programme, as well as there is no psychiatry. We are talking about a comprehensive health service. For us, it is essential that we not see it as divided silos, but as a coherent health service. In the autumn, we have already introduced the same patient rights in the field of psychiatry that we have in the somatic field, precisely because we want equality. That's our approach to the area. This was not an approach of the previous government. We want to give priority to psychiatry, just as we want to give priority to somatics, because we see it as part of a comprehensive healthcare system. That is why I also think, as regards the discussion about whether to split it up, which the questioner has then run two rounds on another Wednesday, that it is more important to look at this together. As I said in my first answer, we are going to do a review of the entire psychiatry area. We do so because we can see that there are some problems in this area that need to be addressed, and that is one of our priorities. The 400 million. kr., which the questioner then says we must not refer to, is money that is going to work in the coming years, so that the 150 beds can be ready per. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It is legislation that has not even been adopted in this Chamber, but I understand that the questioner does not care about that. That's what happened. We also need to ensure that the initiatives we are taking in the field of psychiatry are brought to the fore. I think the problem has just been that there have been some who have been so busy constantly saying that we must now do a lot of things, that we have actually forgotten to make sure that it comes out and benefits the individual patient, the individual family member and the individual employee, and that we are also following up completely on the fact that the money actually ends up going to the initiatives we have politically decided that they should benefit.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118145110	I have to remind both sides that when we're done with the first round, there's only 1⁄2 minutes per. Once again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118145117	Thank you. There is no reason why the Minister should be upset that I want the Minister to try to give her vision of what she intends to prioritise in the field of psychiatry. I know nothing has been said about psychiatry on the government's own basis. Then you can say nicely that you want a concerted effort and that you don't think in silos. No, I don't want us to think in silos either, but I would like you to be a little visionary for psychiatry. With the calls that have been made and the problems that have been raised just in the last six months, I have to admit that it is a little worrying that the Minister does not just have some initiative or effort going on in an area that one would like to try to lift and look at. I would like to hear about that from the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118145205	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118145206	I would like to repeat what I have said a few times now, but which I understand the questioner does not want to listen to: if we are to ensure that we lift our psychiatry area, then we also need to have a comprehensive estimate of where things are going wrong. What are those things that don't work? We can see that together we have provided resources over the coming years; at the same time we can hear both from relatives, from employees and from patients that they do not feel that the money has come out there, where they are supposed to make a difference. This applies both to the DKK 2.2 billion. and the money we have targeted to secure more beds. That is why we come to as a government and it is now being launched here to conduct a review of the entire psychiatry area, because we have a desire to strengthen our entire overall psychiatry. And then we're going to look at how to ensure a better coherence. It is about reducing rehousing, improving printing plans, that there is a connection between what the municipalities do and who promises what, and then the specialized social psychiatry departments that we must have built up during this year, which is also part of ensuring that patients are not printed for nothing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118145306	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118145307	Thank you. Well, it's fine to do a control review, but here you know what the challenge is. So, patient organisations have been out to say that beds are simply missing and that quality is being damaged and there are these healthy Fridays. That's what professionals say, that's what psychiatrists say, and that's what relatives say. So you already know where it is, the shoe presses. And then the question is, why don't you go in and look a little bit at what you can do to minimize these particular rehospitations? As I also said at the outset, it is extremely costly, both for the individual patient and for the relatives, but indeed also for the people who are treating these groups. So the minister really doesn't have anything? I ask here one last time. Doesn't the Minister have any action at all to make it possible for us to target ourselves and minimise re-hospitation?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118145359	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118145400	I am happy to reply again, as I have also answered the questioner correctly, many times before. We have a focus both on the printing plans that are, in terms of ensuring that there is also a follow-up. We have a focus on reducing rehousing. We can see that there is a recruitment challenge. It may well be that the questioner thinks that everything is quite clear. In fact, when you ask the actors in this area, there are a whole range of challenges, including recruitment, which is not about the lack of resources, but about the lack of staff. We need to have a look at the skills gap. When we want to do this together, it is because we do not just have to do one thing in our psychiatric area; we simply have to lift up the whole sector, and therefore we also need to look at this together with Danske Regions to ensure that we get patients back into focus. We provide proper conditions for the employees, and we focus on the fact that the relatives today feel that there is insufficient help. So that's our focus. It is an overall focus, and it is not that we believe that there is such a snap, and then all the problems are solved, as I am a little told that the Social Democracy and the questioner indicate; that is, if you just did one thing, we did not have the problems. We are addressing the work that needs to be tackled because it is the right of patients to give priority to us.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118145507	Thank you very much to Mrs Yildiz Akdogan. We are so fortunate that there is another question for the Minister of Health, and that is put by the Socialist Group, Mr President. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118145517	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118145523	Thank you very much, and the President will be pleased that the question is short. And once again, hello to the Minister for Health. Does the Minister think that after the next elections the five regions should be closed down?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118145529	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118145530	Thank you for the question. It is, of course, an issue that I understand the questioner has also had the opportunity to discuss with my predecessor on several occasions, both in a series of consultations and also in this Chamber. That is why I could appropriately repeat exactly the same wording. What I can say is that both the Left Government in which the former Minister for Health was Minister, as well as the Triple Government, is that we have high expectations of the regions and the tasks they have to perform. For us, it is the patients who are at the centre. This is our focal point, and there is no doubt, as the questioner knows, that this government, as well as the Left Government, has also given financial priority to health care last year alone, with a boost of 2.4 billion. kr. and again this year with the Financial Bill for 2017 with more funds. It is also more than what the Social Democratic Party in its time proposed and went to the polls on. That is because we give priority to health. This also means that we have expectations of the regions that they should deliver for the benefit of the citizens, both when it comes to reducing waiting lists and also when it comes to ensuring high quality treatment. That is also why, together with Danske Regionser and KL last year, we set eight ambitious national targets to strengthen the quality of health care. And, as I also said in connection with the 10th anniversary of the regions, which we have just celebrated, we fully acknowledge that a number of points have been delivered. That doesn't mean we're saying that now you've had the 10th birthday, and then we don't have expectations of you in the future. Our starting point is patients, a strong, high-quality health care system and that the health tasks are solved throughout the country. Some of the demographic inequalities in health, as we can see today, and where the regions play a role, have also been combated. That's our focus. That is why there is no mention of the closure of the regions in the government programme. It is about ensuring that we have an effective healthcare system for the benefit of patients.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118145732	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118145733	Thank you, Minister. One would almost think that the Minister knew with what background I had asked this question this Wednesday. After all, the regions have just celebrated their 10th anniversary, and in this context some videos have just been made, as the Minister says, and let me just quote what the Minister said in his video: of course there are places where things need to be even better, and that is the work I look forward to taking on together. It is a fine video in which the Minister promises on his hat and says that health care is in a good condition, but that there are other things that can get even better. But there was another video in this context, namely the Prime Minister of the country, and let me quote what the Prime Minister said on the same occasion, namely the 10th anniversary of the regions. It was less compromise-seeking and less embracing in its rhetoric than the one held by the Minister of Health, and I quote here: I was at the cradle at your birth, and you were a contentious size, and you are still under discussion. The Minister for Health says that the regions have improved and the Minister for Health is looking forward to continuing to develop with the regions. However, the Prime Minister of the country, who was the architect of the municipal reform and the creation of the regions, says that the regions are still under discussion. That is why I am a little confused, and I think it is the government itself that has given me every reason to try to clarify what the government's position is. Now we have entered 2017, there is regional election campaign in the autumn, there are many who want to know what the government is thinking.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118145943	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118145944	I think, in fact, that I used the wording myself, that from the outset the regions have been a controversial size, in other words in the video that I made, but that they had become very mature ten-year-olds who had undertaken some tasks. But we can also see that there are major regional differences, as I said before. Take a region that is the questioner very well-known, namely the North Jutland Region, which in 2010 was very good as far as waiting lists are concerned, but now they are like some of those who actually have some challenges in that area. It just helps me to illustrate that it is not just about what structure we have. It is also very much about governance; it is about the political priorities that are in relation to solving the tasks of our common healthcare. That is why I would just like to reiterate what I said, namely that it is patients who are our focus, and that is why we are so concerned that the regions deliver quality, including with the new eight national targets. And if the regions do not deliver quality, you have to take stock of it at least if you want the patients and the quality of our health care to be our focal point, not a structure. We are working with the regions because we believe that they have done the job for the last 10 years and we want to develop our health care with the regions. I also think it is important that we constantly dare to make demands on the regions that it is the patients and that it is the quality that should be at the heart.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118150109	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118150110	The Prime Minister says that the survival of the regions is still under discussion. I do not think that the Minister will be very specific in his reply to me about what the government's position is. For in the 2015 election campaign, a chronicle was written in which the bourgeois parties joined forces and said that there were seven demands and that they should be met, otherwise they could not guarantee the survival of the regions. We're in the middle of this parliamentary term. I mean, I think there are some who need to get a clearer statement about what the government wants. That is why I would like to ask the Minister: what is the deadline for the regions? When can both the regions and the people expect an answer as to whether they should be closed down or not? Will it be before the next election or after the next election?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118150204	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118150205	There is nothing in the government's programme about the closure of the regions. The questioner knows this very well, because the questioner has certainly also read the government programme. But that does not change the fact that we want to make demands. We want to make demands on the solution of the problem, whether it be about the regions, public authorities or institutions. It is that one must always focus on what task one has to solve. And for us, our health care is about having patients at the centre. It's about high quality in the treatment. It's about, uh... to ensure that we also manage to address the geographical inequality in health that we are currently seeing. The regions have a role to play. After all, this is the cooperation we have with the regions, namely to develop our common health care system. And if the regions fail to do so, then you have to take stock of it, otherwise you leave the patients behind like those who actually end up being losers. I hope that can be a common starting point, that is to say that our health services in Denmark must be developed. There must be a higher quality, and it is the patients who are at the centre, more than it is a discussion about, I can understand that we must forever guarantee that the structure in Denmark will be as it is today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118150322	The questioner's last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118150324	The reason why I am asking the Minister today is that I actually believe that it is not politically proper for us here from Christiansborg to have a government that constantly brings uncertainty as to whether the regions should survive or not. I understand that the Minister says that the regions have a role to play. Yes, they do. They bear a very big responsibility and have a very big task portfolio out there. The minister says that quality must be provided for patients and citizens. I just want to ask you about the seven demands made by the bourgeois parties and the eight quality targets set subsequently in 2016. In other words, if the regions do not live up to this, what is it that the government, together with the other bourgeois parties, will replace the regions if they are to be abolished? Any guess? I cannot fail to comment on this too when the Minister says that it is quality that must be delivered. There are several professors and health economists, including: Kjeld Møller Pedersen, who said that regions are the least poor solution. It is experts who look into the problems of the regions and compare them with others. So what will the government put in place if the regions are not to be there?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118150448	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118150449	As a party, we helped create the regions. We support the regions. This is not part of the government programme, as the questioner also knows that the regions must be closed down. However, we allow ourselves to make demands on the regions; demand that they provide high-quality health care for the benefit of patients and for the benefit of citizens; that we are aware that today there is a geographical inequality in health that we need to focus on. This applies both to medical coverage, which we have had the pleasure of discussing a little earlier today, but it is also a question of ensuring that patients do not experience that because they come into one hospital instead of another, they both experience to wait longer, but they are also at risk of having worse treatment. Well, these are some of the things we have to keep each other up, so there aren't these regional differences. We are working with the regions. We have good cooperation with the regions. And if I look at the President of the regions, Bent Hansen, it is not the case that I see him walking and having the same concern as the questioner has today. It is, of course, because it is well known, also regionally, that there are expectations that it is not the structure, but the patients that are at the heart, and it is also the responsibility of the regions to provide health services for the benefit of citizens and patients.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118150555	Thank you very much to both the questioner and the Minister for Health. We shall now move on to a whole different subject, namely, taxation. That's the tax minister, and the questioner is Mr. Jesper Petersen of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118150608	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118150609	Thank you. I will start by reading the question: does the Minister agree that there is a deliberate misuse of the Treasury as overdraft when tax debts arising from non-paid A tax and labour market contributions from companies have increased significantly from 2013 to 2016, and why does the Minister in Politiken refuse to do anything about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118150632	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118150633	Thank you for the question. My basic view is that citizens and companies that have incurred public debt have to repay the sums due and that they also have to pay interest. It is absolutely essential that there is no spread of the notion that it is a free round to blame money to the public. Otherwise, we will not be able to maintain what we can at least call the sense of legal certainty among the many citizens and companies who pay what they have to do when they have to. That's right, sir. Jesper Petersen mentioned that there has been an increase in arrears relating to e.g.: the failure of companies to settle the A tax and labour market contributions. If you go behind the figures, you will find that, fortunately, this is not an exceptional approach to arrears relating to the company's A tax and labour market contributions, but rather that the recovery proceeds have been reduced, that is, the money that comes in. Therefore, at least at this stage there is no evidence to conclude what the questioner is doing in his question, namely that the development of the arrears suggests deliberate misuse of the Treasury as overdraft. Of course, it cannot be ruled out, but there is no indication of that. The situation rather reflects that SKAT's recovery continues to be strongly influenced by the suspension of the automatic recovery in EFI and DMI from September 2015 and by the challenge of having to go through debt items manually rather than mechanically to ensure that they are valid before active recovery steps can be taken. Therefore, it is of course also extra important that SKAT in the phases prior to the recovery phase focuses on preventing these arrears from occurring at all. And this is where I believe that in a modern world there is a need to understand the concept of control wider than that of purely classical outgoing control.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118150831	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118150832	SKAT has a lot of problems, and one of the very big problems is about the construction of this huge tax debt, i.e. a residual stock of 100 billion now in the region. kr. So what I want to do with my questions today is to go a little further on two types of them. One type is about the "A" tax and labour market contributions that companies have to settle with SKAT, and it is of course some money that comes from an ordinary flow of money in the economy, where it happens that a type of company is carried out, that some people have to be paid, and that companies withhold A tax and labour market contributions and have to submit them to SKAT. In other words, it is money that actually comes from real economic activity in society. And that amount has increased considerably from 3.1 billion here. kr. in 2013 to 7.4 billion. kr. in June 2016, which has not been paid into and settled with the tax administration. I am pleased to learn more about the fact that, contrary to what he stated in the articles in Politiken, the tax minister can now state that it is an approach to it in a way that is not considered to be an expression of deliberate cheating. There may be something about it, but you have to find out. This can be difficult to do when, in our opinion, the government is not sufficiently willing to give priority to the areas of action and tax control. Nevertheless, if it is not an expression of deliberate cheating, it is simply a lack of recovery. I do not know whether the Minister will say that this suggests that by 2015, when the recovery system had to be shut down and the crew had to be manually employed in the recovery process, it happened that too few staff were set aside for it. Because this is a type of tax debt, which, if you're aware of it, comes from this general flow of the economy, that is, what I started by saying where you have to assume it's some out there that can actually pay. What is missing is that you follow up on whether that money comes in. Then it is still unfair to all those who make sure that they pay what they have to pay, that there are some others who can, however, use the Treasury as a bank overdraft because the recovery authority does not carry out its task.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118151043	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118151043-2	To that extent, I agree with Mr McMillan-Scott. Jesper Petersen at the end. There's a bit of history missing, and I think, sir. Jesper Petersen is well aware of this. And it must be understood in this way that this is a situation that has arisen as a result of the fact that we did not have an effective recovery and that it was because we had a recovery machine which was built in the time of the former VK government and put into operation under the previous government and the tax ministers who were there. Recovery did not take place on a legal basis, and then, as tax minister, I pulled the plug, and there was broad political support for that. And then, quietly, we have started to build a new recovery system, which I will have to take stock of tomorrow in the Parliament's Finance Committee. It is progressing, however, not as fast as I would like, but of course forward, and that is why we must also show some results in 2017, compared to how much money is coming in the Treasury, also in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118151139	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118151140	Well, there's no one who can deny that story. These are simply historical facts, and we can then take that one more time. Nevertheless, it happened in 2015, when you pulled the plug, that at the same time crews were added, and I believe that it was about 315 employees, in order to continue with the task of recovery in the manual way in the tax administration. It is, on the one hand, a question of knowing whether the debts are even enforceable, and, on the other hand, of proceeding with recovery in the ways that can now be done. It must then have been too little when there is a debt like this, where you just have to expect that people can actually pay if things are otherwise followed up. That has not been given sufficient priority. Is it then a recognition that the tax minister is going to make today: that is, that you should have done more in 2015 when you pulled the plug on the recovery system?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118151228	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118151230	We would have liked to have been able to do more, but I do not think we could do much more and much more than what was done. I mean, it's a deal. That one thought that one could build a fully automatic system could not, the system even recovered in some situations on a non-legal basis. Then it would also be strange to go in the completely opposite direction and say that then we replace it with a lot of people, and it would be thousands of people, and therefore the soft and sensible middle way was chosen, where you temporarily hire ■ 315 more in 2015, and we have just made a joint agreement that there will be even more people in the field of recovery. So there will be a great many more employees for a number of years until we can get effective IT support, and when there is an effective IT support, we will have a recovery function where there are more people employed than was otherwise intended. But I think it would have been hard to do it much differently than you did in 2015, and even if you could have wished you could do more, I don't think it was possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118151328	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118151330	In other words, when there is a need to take it very seriously, it is because, among other things, it is. is money that is lacking in the box and is therefore not available when it comes to spending on our common welfare and because in the slightly longer term there is an interest cost for the state because the debt is simply greater than it could have been. At the same time, it is an expression of this unfair competition when some companies make sure to pay and others simply do not. One would say that it has actually been the case since 2015 that because there was not yet a new system to be put into operation, one has actually been able to avoid submitting a tax and labour market contribution, because SKAT has simply failed to follow it up until a new system had entered into force?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118151416	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118151417	No, I don't think that's a proper rendering. However, the whole area of recovery has suffered from thinking that a fully automatic recovery system could be built, but it turned out to be very expensive to build, in fact impossible to build, because we have very complicated legislation. When you choose to pull the plug on it I did, and of course I am responsible for that, you can't just magicate and create an alternative system in no time, and the entire recovery area has suffered. What is important to me as tax minister is that we have a recovery system in which we are recovering on a legal basis and in which we are quietly moving in the right direction. I want us to move as quickly as possible, but when the problems accumulate over a number of years, it also takes a few years to resolve them. I'm afraid that's the truth.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118151506	Thank you. Sir. Jesper Petersen has another question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118151510	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118151514	Does the Minister agree that the recovery of tax debts of foreign dancers should be strengthened, cf. JydskeWest Coast articles on the subject in December 2016, where it appears that there are very few debts recovered in 2016 while the government's claims in this area are growing?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118151533	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118151535	My basic point of departure is the same: of course you have to pay what you owe, even when it is the public and the state treasury that you owe some money. And that applies, regardless of where you live, whether it is in Denmark or outside the kingdom. The money is lacking in public funds, and it is neither right nor proper for citizens and companies who respond to their own needs to pay for those who do not pay their debts to the public. And, as you know, it is SKAT's recovery that continues to be strongly influenced by this suspension back from September 2015 and, of course, it also affects the recovery of foreign dancers. In relation to the specific problem, the requirements here related to foreign dancers have never been fully supported by the EFI, even while the systems were in operation, and therefore the recovery of these requirements has been limited over the period and, in addition, for a large part of the culprits, no useful address information is available. In the current situation of reconstruction of the area of recovery in the light of inter alia: the broad political agreement on a new tax administration gives SKAT priority to manual recovery, also in this area, by risk and materiality. And there is then an additional complexity in the recovery of debts to the public sector when the Danish debtors are resident abroad, in that it requires assistance from the authorities of the country where the debtor has settled. Having said that, of course, we are also looking at whether private actors can help take over the recovery of parts of public debt, and within the European Union we can of course use the 2010 EU Aid Directive where we can ask other countries' recovery authorities to help us. So it is true that this is not an area that has been given sufficient priority, but it is an area that I naturally wish to prioritise. But we have to do this after risk and materiality, and that is why we have at least at the moment a greater challenge within the kingdom's borders than outside, but that does not mean that things are allowed to sail.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118151751	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118151753	If there is to be a little prehistory, so that you get an idea of what kind of discussion we have, it is about the fact that in 2016 there have been 17,000 more foreign dancers with tax debts than in 2013, so there are now 75,000 foreign dancers with tax debts. At that time it was 5.5 billion. kr., it was about, but now it has to be assumed that it is an even larger amount. Perhaps it is something that is usually the case that the longer the time passes, the greater the risk that you may also have to write off this money, so that we simply never get the money in, that there is simply greater losses in the debts. There are also special circumstances when it is people abroad, because it may make it even more difficult. That is also why I found it a little amazing to read the articles in the Jutland West Coast that were made on the basis of access to SKAT, namely that in 2016 only 19 attempts had been made to obtain help from foreign tax authorities following some of the agreements on assistance from other countries' authorities mentioned by the tax minister in his reply; it seems to be incredibly few times that they have actually done so. Now the Minister has the chance to comment on those articles and say something about what the explanation might be for doing so few times. Does the Minister expect, at the end of 2017, that there has been a fall in arrears in this area, and will foreign assistance have been used to clarify matters more than 19 times? I am in favour and respect the fact that SKAT must of course give priority to its resources and intervene where there is the greatest risk. But it is here that there were some people, a few people, with some very, very large debts that did not seem to have been attempted to recover, and these are the sort of ones that all other Danes are in danger of seeing slipped between our fingers, because the task is not adequately carried out, or perhaps because there are not the resources that are needed. We are back on the question of whether we should have done more when we had to withdraw the EFI system, what I think we should have done before, even in our time; we should therefore have come to that conclusion more quickly. But then you have to take action and do what you can to carry out the task in the meantime.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118152022	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118152024	Thank you. I think we do, and I have done so, among other things. With Mr. Jesper Petersen's party, where, when we pulled the plug, we added extra personnel to the task, 315 men, and with the investment agreement we made, we put 1 billion. kr. to build a new tax administration, and some of them are going to build a new recovery authority. We have made an agreement with the Danish IT company Netcompany not to build anything from scratch, but to buy some shelf goods to ensure effective recovery. But even if you had an infinite amount of resources and unbridled amounts of qualified labor to do this task, it's just gonna take some time. We are, of course, hampered in both respects, and therefore one of the tasks which could not be given sufficient priority is to recover from people who reside outside the Kingdom. We must, of course, come to that, and I am also willing to look at it as a tax minister, for example. can draw on the help of private actors in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118152121	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118152123	I do not know if I should see that the tax minister does not find it satisfactory that in 2016 only 19 cases have been used to get help from foreign authorities to recover these outstanding funds. As those articles show, there is such a top ten-page account of it, where you can see that these are really very large debts, and you must have at least tried to say that there are some who owe a great deal of money here and where you can expect that there is also a ability to pay. However, only 19 attempts have been made to find the address and that the foreign tax administration will help us later, just as we will help them if they have citizens living in this country who owe their state money. And that has only happened in 19 cases in 2016. Does the Minister find it satisfactory or must it be given priority?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118152219	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118152220	I certainly do not think that is satisfactory. Unfortunately, however, this whole area of recovery has suffered from the fact that recovery has not worked for many years. We are then on the way to creating this, and we are doing so by common help with an IT system that actually works, with a lot of extra staff and with a massive simplification of the recovery legislation, and in which I, as the tax minister, have also said that we must then give extra thought to whether we can use private actors, for example. In this area. But no, it has not been given sufficient priority. Unfortunately, however, I do not think it would have been possible to prioritize this regardless of who had had the power of government and whoever had been the tax minister. But that doesn't mean it's good enough, because it's not.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118152302	We shall now turn to the questioner's last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118152303	I would say that the Minister is right to say that we are trying to move forward in this area by common help. We have concluded the agreements mentioned by the Minister because we are giving priority to relaunching this recovery system, and we are looking very seriously at the fact that the debt is now approaching this 100 billion. kr. I think that many out there really think it's amazing that it can appear that they are paying even their own debts and that the tax debt just grows and grows and that the recovery doesn't work. So I get that. The question is, however, whether, in cases where we have helped to create a majority in favour of increased funding for SKAT, the Minister for Taxation has asked for help to an adequate extent and whether it has been given sufficient priority by the government when it was asked to do so, and whether, for example, it has been given sufficient priority by the government. also instructs us that priority must be given to the fact that when there are cases of very large debts and people are supposed to have the ability to pay, they are being pursued with the resources that are now available, which were actually added after 2015. So we will continue to help. The question is whether the government is doing enough and asking for enough help.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118152412	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118152413	[Sound Outfall]... I wish it was different, but unfortunately it is not always the case that those who have large debts can also pay. SKAT must, of course, organise its control pressure on the basis of where to catch the big fish, and in the recovery it must also organise its work according to where it is most likely to recover as much as possible. I am aware that it is a joint responsibility that this does not work, and the questioner's party is taking that on board, and that is why we have solved some of these things together. Then I am also aware that when you look at the recovery proceeds for each month, you can see that fortunately it is going in the right direction, and it has to go even more in the right direction here in 2017. And, of course, we also have to go where we can neither hide within the borders of the Kingdom nor outside the borders of the Kingdom if we owe money to the public. And I think we can ensure that by common help, but it will take some time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118152501	Thank you. That is what could fall off to the tax minister today, and also thanks to Mr. Jesper Petersen. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 17, which is for the Minister for the Environment and Food, and the questioner is the North Jutland Social Democrat, Mr. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118152516	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118152517	Thank you, sir. President. The title is quite correct. The question is: does the Minister consider that the efforts of the Coast Directorate in connection with the storm Urd and the subsequent floods are satisfactory?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118152530	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118152531	Thank you for that, President, and thank you for the question. The simple answer is: Yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118152536	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118152537	The reason I ask is, of course, that I follow a lot of what the Coast Directorate is doing. On 27 December a press release was issued stating that the coasts were opposed to Urd. Afterwards, I could see that the Minister had a meeting with the mayors and that a lot of things now need to be done. But that day, the 27th, there was nothing wrong. There was a trip to Thyborøn, and that's fine. There is nothing wrong with driving there, but in all the other places the citizens experienced massive problems, and when it subsequently became bright again, you could see that it was really bad in many places. So the perception of reality that the Coastal Directorate has is not entirely in line with what the citizens out there see. I also saw their New Year greetings to the people, where they told about how many meetings they had. It was deliberately omitted to mention that there had been a short-term hearing. You have been on a trip to North Jutland with the Food Committee, where you only participated in part. That is why I am asking whether the Minister does not think that a little more could be done in this matter so that citizens can be satisfied with the efforts of the state in relation to coastal protection in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118152653	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118152654	Thank you for that, President, and thank you for the question. It is my experience that any company in the public sector can, of course, always become more skilled at what they do. Some of it is about communication, something about presence, something about the advice you give, but it is clear that the fact that you do not always agree in practice does not mean that you are not able. My experience is also that with the many citizens' meetings held by the Coast Directorate, and with the much advice that the Coast Directorate provides to citizens and the municipalities of the country, we facilitate a great deal of what we need to do. But the government is concerned that this is going to be even better, and that is why, as the questioner also refers to, I had yesterday a meeting with the National Association of Municipalities and a large number of mayors to see if they see a need for the State at the Coastal Directorate to facilitate more overall efforts, interventions across municipalities and provide more advice. For the government is very respectful of municipal autonomy, and therefore it is important for me to consult both KL and a number of municipalities. And the clear signal was: Yes, we want more of the good you're doing in advance. And since we want to be there where there is a demand for it, we will also be more so in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118152809	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118152810	There is an incredible need for this too. After all, the former Socialist Minister for the Environment asked for a coastal analysis so that we could see where the problems were. It turned out that it was in the municipality of Hjørring and in the municipalities of Nordsjælland. The Food Committee has visited them both places to see how things stand and something needs to be done. What has just been the problem is that the Coast Directorate, which I must assume has the greatest expertise, and which also advises the Minister, has been very, very passive when it comes to saying what needs to be done. It has been recorded that there have been problems, but when the citizens have asked that and that, it has often ended up with a no. That is why it is only good that the pressure put on the system may seem to bear fruit, and that is why we will, of course, pursue this matter. But what does the Minister see as necessary for us to have a situation where no more of Denmark's coasts disappear? Because regardless of the fact that only sand-feeding has been used as virtually the only remedy for many, many years, it turns out that more disappears than is added.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118152914	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118152915	Thank you, President-in-Office, and thank you for the question, which is, of course, a very relevant question, which is why I clearly signalled yesterday, on behalf of the government, that the government, to the extent that there is a need to increase the use of harsh coastal protection in Denmark, is certainly also prepared to do so. And if there are legislative changes that need to be made, the government is also willing to look at it. However, what is important to remember is that the right constructions should also be made, and that is where we just have to accept that the Coastal Directorate has the coastal technical expertise and the regulatory framework within which the Coastal Directorate works, we have decided. So the criticism that may come from the institution of the Coastal Directorate may be more or less justified. Because it must always be remembered that the officials act within the legal framework that both the questioner and I are involved in. Of course, when the government sends a clear signal of more tough coastal protection, it will also reflect in the solutions that are now to be approved in the Coastal Directorate and in relation to any applications that may be made. But we all have an interest in supplementing the hard coast protection with sand-feeding so that it does not erode the coasts where it is at risk. And the places where citizens themselves want to pay for tough coastal protection, and that is being done right, the government is, of course, prepared to look at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118153025	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118153026	Thank you. But that's because the Coast Directorate says there's no problem. This is what they tell after the storm Urd, and by the way they tell in their New Year's greeting that the year has gone well, and then there is time to drink 54,366 cups of coffee. Thank you. Now it's just that there's a whole host of problems. There was Jyllinge, and there was everything else. There are ten different places in the country where there is a risk of flooding. No, you don't mean anything about that. That is why I would like to ask further about the complaint system, i.e. whether you have to take off some layers. We can see it in, for example. Old Skagen. There are 14 who have complained. There are 700 people who agree that payment must be made. There is, of course, a question of a distribution key and they will continue to complain. Before the system is brought to an end, I would have liked to say that it is not possible to start setting up a coast protection system. That is why I would like to hear from the Minister what sort of things the Minister is thinking about, and what opportunity do we have to get involved with something that might work? Perhaps we could also make some experiments in certain areas to find out how to spend the money most properly in terms of securing the coasts.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118153129	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118153130	Thank you, President, and thank you for the question. Well, now I know Mr. Knox. Bjarne Laustsen as a hot nordjyde, and I think perhaps the rapporteur polemicises equally abundantly with the Coast Directorate with all the misery that Mr. Bjarne Laustsen mentions. I mean, we both know that mr. Laustsen has been in the Folketing for many, many years and has helped to secure the legislation that is needed and which also works within the Coastal Directorate. So when you point fingers at someone, fingers point back too. That's why I'm very excited to see how Mr. Bjarne Laustsen and the Social Democratic Party will deal with any changes in legislation during the spring, if necessary. 'Cause that's the framework you act in. Sir. Bjarne Laustsen also forgets, when he refers to Jyllinge Nordmark, to say that it is a project that goes back to 2013 and the storm that was there. I do not need to mention who had the government at that time. There is just no need to polemicise about the matter, because we all want it to be better. The Coast Directorate is working within the guidelines we provide. We have sent out a clear signal that there must be better coastal protection, there must be more advice and guidance, and the Coastal Directorate must be more present around the country. The Coastal Directorate takes its responsibility very seriously, including those places where they have had storm river awareness along the west coast of Jutland, because in the rest of the country it is the local tools that have to deal with it. So it has to be said that what they have delivered they have delivered well where they have been responsible for the storm. And then there are places where there have been local tools.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118153254	Thank you both for that. We move on to the next question, which is also for the Minister for the Environment and Food. The questioner is Mrs Pia Adelsteen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118153304	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118153306	Thank you. The question is this: does the Minister believe that the citizens who have previously been refused harsh coastal protection must resubmit their application to the Coastal Directorate so that they can have their projects approved, now that the Minister has asked the Coastal Directorate to change its practice?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118153321	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118153323	Thank you, President, and also thank you for the question. After all, we are all concerned that the citizens are being given the right treatment. This is also something that is of great concern to the questioner, not least in this area. The government is concerned about using more harsh coastal protection. In some cases, it can be combined with sand-feeding so that we ensure that we do not erode the coast, just as we in the government are concerned that tough coastal protection is used in an overall plan so that we do not transport a problem to neighbours or neighbouring municipalities. I take the view that the decisions taken by the Coastal Directorate are legal, but also to address the question raised by the questioner: if the landowners who have previously been refused are in doubt whether they would be able to obtain a permit for severe coastal protection and where it would not bother the neighbour, then I would certainly urge them to contact the Coastal Directorate, which will be able to help both with clarification and with process. And since this is something that both the government and I are concerned about as a minister, I will, of course, follow those representations very, very closely. I am also willing, as I said yesterday and on the previous question, to look at a change of law, if that is what is needed, in order to apply more harsh coastal protection, where it does not harm neighbours. So all in all a clear statement on behalf of the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118153434	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118153435	Thank you so much. This is a question which I am asking from the ritzautelegrams that were shortly after the storm Urd had been around Denmark, and where, of course, there are a number of citizens in the country who have suffered. But I also put it because it was very clear that the Minister would ask the Coast Directorate to change its practice. It worried me a little, understood in the sense that in my optics we have to change the legislation, because I have the very clear impression, like the Minister, that the Coastal Directorate is of course acting on the basis of the legislation that exists. This certainly means in my optics that many of the people who have been denied tough coastal protection would not be able to do so, even if practice changes. And then I also have the attitude that whatever minister is sitting, a Liberal or a Social Democrat or perhaps a DF at some point, it has to be the case that the law is equal for everyone and that, of course, until a law is amended, the rules apply to everyone. That's why I'm asking. That is why I have asked the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118153543	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118153544	Thank you, President-in-Office, and also thank you for a particular relevant follow-up question. Having said that I thought that something could probably stay within the framework of the legislation, it is because, for example, it is. To go in and look at some overall plans, where a solution that was then combined with neighbouring solutions could actually mean that tough coastal protection could be established, is something that can be done within the framework of the legislation, i.e. if you have a comprehensive plan. I dare not say what it has been like in individual cases. But it is important to me, and that is also why I have said that if you have received a refusal, you should be welcome to re-submit an application. Because it could be, on the one hand, with the renewed attention and, on the other hand, with the statement by the municipalities of the country at the latest yesterday that they really want the state to go in and help make more comprehensive solutions, that you can actually apply tough coastal protection in some cases. We do not know that I am not doing at least; it is possible that the questioner is making whether there is a pilot who has been refused because he would certainly not make a solution where the erosion part was protected or where some neighbours would not be taken into account. There may be such relationships. But I also say at the same time: if it is necessary, when the government has worked this through with citizens' meetings and legislative process, to change the law in order to get a practice that we want, then the government is prepared to do so. Because I agree with the questioner. There is, of course, equality before the law, regardless of who may sit as a minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118153708	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118153709	Thank you again for your statement, because I am very pleased about that. I hope, of course, that this statement will actually change things, so that conditions in the country and in the citizens affected by it will also change. While the previous one is asking, sir. Bjarne Laustsen, had a concern regarding North Jutland, I might have it in relation to the whole country, I would say. There are very many places in Denmark that are affected. So there are places, also in North Zealand, where people have been denied even though there is tough coastal protection on both sides. I will, of course, encourage them to send a letter to the Minister, and I am sure that the Minister will read it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118153749	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118153750	Thank you for that, President. Thank you also for the last statement, in which there was not so much a question but more an indication. I merely sign for it by saying that, to the extent that there are citizens who turn to the Coastal Directorate or to me directly, we are of course looking at it seriously, because the fact that citizens can sleep safely at night and the fact that their property is protected is essential for the government. It just needs to be made on the basis of the right rules, so that we ensure that we do not destroy the coast by erosion. Unfortunately, we have seen some examples of this around the country, and that is of course why it is so important that we have the right models for this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118153825	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118153827	I had hoped, when we got the coastal analysis, that it might also indicate which models could be used around it. At any rate, I have heard reports that the municipal cooperation that exists in some places is not optimal, given that it actually helps the citizens. Of course, I also hope that the Coastal Directorate can go in and help, but I also hope that we can say what we can say. It can therefore be tough coastal protection, but there may also be places where we might have to let go of new experiments with, among other things. drain pipes, for which I am a warm advocate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118153910	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118153911	Thank you for the question. There is certainly no doubt that there may be places in the country where municipal cooperation has not worked optimally. That is why, of course, we also take this task upon us, and it is both to go in and look at an overall plan on the basis of the coastal analysis, but also to facilitate it, so that more municipalities can work together on it, because it is the citizen's welfare that is at stake. It's not the system that comes before the citizen in this case. Personally, I am concerned to see whether there are forms other than harsh coastal protection, sand-feeding and the like that we know today that can be used. It is both looking at international experience, but also by making tests at home. This is already happening to a certain extent in some places. I think that is important, because of course we should never, understand me correctly, rest on the laurels, but develop methods. It is clear that if you have to look at the coast analysis, and that is also what the coastal analysis concludes today is the most cost-effective tool, it is sand-feeding. You can always discuss that, and you can have an opinion on it, and I have great respect for it. It is absolutely not the case that the door is closed to other options.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118154017	Thank you. There is a great deal of interest in the area of the Minister for the Environment and Food, so there is another question, namely Question 19, and the questioner is Mr. Christian Poll from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118154027	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118154029	What does the Minister intend to do to reduce pollution from wood stoves, especially in view of the fact that the economic wise men of 12 January 2017 to Altinget.dk estimate that the health costs from pollution are over 4 billion. kr. A year?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118154049	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118154049-2	Thank you for that, President. I am just glad that the President is aware that there is a great deal of interest in the Resort of the Ministry of the Environment and Food. We are incredibly pleased about that too, so the President just needs to know that. Thank you, too, to the questioner for that question. Approx. 70% of air pollution in Denmark comes from abroad. It is therefore only one of the Danish sources of particulate pollution when we look at the wood stoves, but they constitute the largest source in the domestic area. Since 2008, we have set stricter emission requirements, i.e. emission requirements for new wood-burning furnaces and used wood-burning furnaces that are sold on. In this way, the old and more polluting furnaces disappear as the furnaces are replaced. I would like to create the framework for the Danes to make informed and environmentally friendly choices. This was precisely the purpose of the scrapping scheme for older wood stoves, which has highlighted both the environmental and economic benefits of scraping the old wood stove. The scraping scheme has been a great success and has contributed to the scrapping of over 20,000 of the oldest and most polluting wood-burning furnaces in the past year. In addition, we have in the government, together with others. The SF and the alternative, the author's party, introduced a green housing job scheme, where among other things: is deducted to improve the chimney or scrap the wood stove completely. With the abolition of the PSO tariff, we have reduced the electricity bill. This helps to make electric heat pumps a more attractive alternative to wood stoves. All of this contributes to the continued reduction of pollution by particles from wood stoves in Denmark. I agree that the current health costs of particulate pollution are too high, regardless of whether the costs are calculated at 1 or 4 billion. kr. It is therefore in my deliberations how we continue the positive developments we have created, with the strict limit values for new wood-burning furnaces and with the scrapping scheme for old wood-burning furnaces. Not least, it will be interesting to follow the experience of Germany with step-by-step phasing-out of the oldest and most polluting wood-burning furnaces. Part-analysis 4 of the tax and grant analysis, which has not yet been completed, includes: look at the overall balance of the tax and subsidy system, including the balance between taxes on biomass and alternative fuels and electric heating. When the results of all partial analyses are available, we in the government will look at the overall picture of the needs and opportunities for changing subsidies and taxes in the energy sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118154317	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118154320	Thank you for your answer. It's very interesting to hear about all those actions. I agree that, of course, we also have pollution from abroad, but that should not be an excuse for not doing things at home. After all, stove pollution is one of the major contributors to harmful air pollution. I have also noticed that we have had a scrapping scheme and it has worked in such a way that you have been able to get DKK 2 000. in the scrapping premium, which has resulted in a phase-out of 20,000 wood-burning furnaces. The question is whether that mechanism is enough, given that we have 840,000 furnaces and, moreover, we have a growing trend. There have been several wood stoves in the Danish homes over the years. Of course, those who come to are some of those who are not quite so bad, but we still have 800,000 ovens at home. If you imagine that you can phase out 20,000 a year, it still takes a few more years before we finish getting rid of this social cost. 4 billion kr. A year ago, we were able to save money and, above all, we could also save lives. So I want to know whether the Minister, for example. have looked at the solutions put forward by some environmental organisations and which have been turned around lately when the security of supply tax was talked about. They are that you put a heat meter on the oven itself, and based on it you calculate a tax. It's a way of regulating the address, instead of getting all this morass that was so much debated at the time. They were discussing how people could pay for firewood they have in the garden. That's bullshit. If a heat meter is put on the oven, it will be possible to regulate it quite precisely, and you will, for example, be able to control it. could also give a discount. You can thus say: If you have a swan-marked oven and it is installed in the land zone, you are exempt from the tax because the major problems are in densely built areas where there are many wood-burning ovens, typically in the urban zone and near and in the larger cities. What is the Minister's view of this kind of solution? Could it be something you go on with?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118154538	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118154539	Thank you, President, and thank you for the question. You just have to admit that the Danes are a cozy people with many wood-burning ovens. Those of us who have one all appreciate having one. But in addition to the fact that you can have your wood stove, it is equally important that it takes place on a sound health basis. I fully agree with the questioner on this. That is also why I am saying that we are concerned with looking at the balance between taxes on both biomass, alternative fuels and electric heating, and when the results of the partial analyses in the tax and grant analysis are available, we will look at the overall picture. I do not wish to deny that there could be models such as those outlined by the questioner here, but that is one of the things that needs to be clarified, because that obviously has some consequences. There is also the question of how to enforce such things and so on. The government has not rejected anything in advance, but we are awaiting the partial analyses that need to be made.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118154636	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118154638	That's great. I am glad to hear that, because I believe that we need to look at such solutions. I mentioned before that, for example. I think it would be a good idea if we were to get rid of the tax if we were to get rid of it, for example. lives in a land zone and has a new swan-marked oven which has a very low emissions of particles. In fact, it could also be said that people paid a very low or no tax for the first five hours a week. For then you can maintain the cozy with the oven, but by the way change the fact that wood stoves are in many places the primary source of heating. This is especially what we want to get away from, i.e. that this solid biomass, the fuel, is used in an inefficient furnace... as a primary source of heating in a house.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118154722	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118154723	Thank you for that, President, and also thank you for the question. These are relevant reflections, and you can always work on such models. If the party alternative were to make a charter or a recording to the government on how to deal with this kind of solution, of course I look at it both positively and constructively. It is possible that we will end up rejecting all the proposals if they cannot be done in their context or the like, but if the questioner has some realism in terms of the proposals and their way of being implemented, then I will certainly not deny that one can imagine alternative models for this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118154758	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118154800	That was nice to hear, and I'm gonna go home and work on it and do something together. The fact is, as I understand it, that for a few hundred kroner you can install such a meter on a wood stove or on a pill pine, and the smart thing is that it will not be a very expensive solution for the user either. It will be a meter that can be read either by the chimney sweeper, who will have to come at regular intervals or who will be able to be read digitally because a lot of homes have access to the Internet on which it will be able to be connected.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118154837	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118154839	Thank you, President, and thank you to the author. It is clear that some of what is crucial when looking at models is whether they are possible to use. How can this be made simple for the citizen? For it is clear that having a good time through your wood stove should not be a major bureaucratic affair when you, as a citizen, want to sit at home at the oven on Tuesday evening. So I welcome all the energy that the questioner can put into making good, constructive and negotiable arrangements or proposals, and then it may also take some of the time to make all the misfortune that the questioner otherwise sometimes makes on my resort. It's just said with a flash in the eye.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118154915	Thank you. We skip question 20 (Spm. No. S 509), which has been withdrawn and moves on to Question 21, which is for the Minister for Children and Social Affairs. The questioner is sir. Orla Sea, which is also a North Jutland Social Democrat.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118154930	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118154933	I read the question: Does the Minister find the family's experiences with the municipal service referred to in the article "Parents frustrated over the municipality" in Nordjyske Stiftstidende on 12 January 2017, in line with the intentions of social policy towards people who need specialist advice and help as a result of disability?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118154958	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118155002	Thank you for the question. I would like to start by emphasising that I attach great importance to compliance by local authorities and that they also take their responsibilities seriously, both by complying with the law, so that they make correct and timely decisions, and by providing a good basis for dialogue and cooperation with citizens who need help. As a former municipal politician, I also have a fundamental belief that politicians locally lift their responsibilities and want to make the best possible for citizens. Therefore, I must also confess that I was very, very concerned when I read before Christmas about the problems of cooperation with the City of Jammerbugt, which a number of parents have expressed both in the press and also to the Parliament's Social, Home Affairs and Children's Committees. That is why I asked the mayor for a statement on Friday, 13 January, which I sent to the committee this week. Both the statement and the subsequent press stories, which have also been, unfortunately showed that the municipality and parents look at reality very differently. However, I am also aware that the mayor takes the issue seriously and also addresses the specific criticisms raised by the parents. It is positive that the municipality will take some new steps in the dialogue with parents in order to improve this and also create transparency in the procedure. It is, of course, a matter that could have been missed, but I hope that the debate has intensified the attention of both local politicians and the administration in the field of children, so that there will be better dialogue with parents and quicker and more flexible procedures in these important and also very difficult cases. In return for the statement, I will also write a letter back to the mayor. Here I would like to draw his attention to the possibility for the municipality to seek advice and guidance from the VISO or the disability task force if the municipality needs it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118155155	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118155157	First of all, I would like to acknowledge the Minister's positive statement that we are in fact dealing here with a problem which we cannot be familiar with as a society with a small group which then visited the Committee on Social Affairs last Thursday and had appeared. I must admit that it made a great impression on me to experience it, we should say, the degree of pinch of a group that already has their fights. Having a child who has a disability is in itself a great challenge, and if you have to fight with reluctant authorities or authorities who are not fully aware of how far-reaching it is to intervene in the everyday lives of such a family, then it is almost unbearable. That is why I am pleased that the Minister is going to do so by saying: well then we must give the necessary guidance to the municipalities in this area. And I am glad that the Minister confirms that this is not what our social policy should look like, because our social policy must be such that you have a safety net that you span people and then give them the help they need and which is provided by legislation and the guidance that needs to be provided. I just ask the Minister to confirm that the Minister agrees that it is not reasonable for parents to be in this situation. I appreciate the Minister's indication that he will follow up on that. We will come back to that in the next question. So I would like the Minister to confirm once again that this is not how we should know the social policy we have in our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118155345	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118155347	One thing, of course, is the stakes you put in place. It is true that when you are a family with a disabled child, you have a challenge to contend with. When you even feel like a family that you have to fight with the municipality, it's gonna be twice as hard. I think we can see that. I also know from a number of committee members that it made a great impression on the committee to have the presence of those families. These are also the feedback I have received. So, of course, the efforts must be good, but the dialogue must also be good. In other words, it is also important, when you are a citizen and you have a disabled child, that the dialogue surrounding the interventions is also present. That is also what I am trying to say when I first ask for a statement and then send a letter back to the mayor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118155438	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118155441	I can fully agree with the dialogue, but it does not help much if that dialogue can hardly come about because no one is answering the phone when the citizen comes to us. So that's where things are going wrong. The next is that the citizen will then not receive actual refusals, written refusals, which they can make subject to any appeal, and then find that if they appeal, there has not been a proper case before that appeal is sent to the Ankestyrelsen. So I ask the Minister to urge, let us say, good governance towards the municipalities in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118155519	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118155521	As I said, I am sending a letter back to the mayor, where I say precisely that there is the possibility of having the task force on a visit, where you get both legal and social assistance to improve the practice of those cases and, of course, also the VISO. It is quite obvious that some of the municipalities may well be in a situation where they may not have expertise in all areas. There, if you have a particular case or challenge, you have the opportunity to contact the VISO and get that assistance so that you can deliver a good casework to your citizens. And I just want to say that as a citizen, you have a right. I also think that, as a municipality, you have a precise obligation to deliver it. Of course, the effort must be in order, but I also think that this is a good example which shows that the dialogue on the child must also be in order.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118155614	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118155615	Yes, and one of the criticisms raised by the group of parents has been the refusal to participate in some of the courses organised for parents of children with specific disabilities. I have to wonder, because I know how alone you stand and how much you need to draw on good experiences that others in an interest organisation can have. Does the Minister believe that it is in keeping with the good treatment of citizens with children with disabilities that there is no possibility of participating in any of the activities organised by the organisations of interest to support families?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118155654	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118155655	After all, I do not have the knowledge to know whether or not a course should have been given. But I can at least say that we are actually dealing with a family that then takes really, very much responsibility itself. For some of the things you can see out of these press clips is that the family has paid to get on that course themselves. I think that is actually worth commending in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118155718	Thank you. And it went well with this team set-up for Question 21, so I think we should continue with the same team set-up for Question 22, namely a question to the Minister for Children and Social Affairs from Mr. Orla Sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118155729	Here you go, sir. Orla Sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118155731	Thank you for that, President. I have to say that the Minister has, of course, preceded the answer to the next question. What I was interested in was getting the Minister to put it into practice. If the municipality in question or a municipality in general says that it is good enough that you have a task force and that it is also good enough that you have VISO, but that they have to decide for themselves whether they want to have them on the field, is the Minister willing to go in and be a little more firm in saying: Here we can therefore see that there is a quality problem in the way that you lift a given task in our social services, so we actually think it is important that some people come out and give you good advice and guidance on how this can be connected? Is the Minister willing to go so far that it is on the Minister's initiative, even if one should meet a closed door?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118155824	It was a little more than a reading, but okay. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118155830	As far as the task force is concerned, I just have to say that it is a voluntary task force, and I actually believe that if we want to have some profound changes, if we want to learn some of these task forces, then they must also be volunteers. So I don't plan on going in and changing that. I also hope that the questioner agrees with me that children with disabilities are very different. They are as different as all other children, they can have very different functional reductions and they can have very different support needs, and therefore the effort and assistance they need is also very different. Therefore, it may also be very difficult if I am going to advise the municipalities on what the right effort should be, because that then suggests, according to the question, that there is only one response to children with disabilities, and the effort that we have is of course multi-spectrum. After all, the right effort for the individual child and family must be based on a concrete and individual assessment of the need, so that the child and family get exactly the tailor-made help that is needed. When you have a child with a disability, it affects the whole family. It can affect the parent's relationship, it can affect the other siblings, it can affect the well-being of the whole family if they do not get the right help and support. That is why I believe that early action is crucial, an early effort with a strong focus on the child and also on the whole family, because sometimes early efforts will be able to prevent, indeed, often even reduce the need for longer-term and more intrusive interventions. That is why I am also pleased that the Danish Social Protection Agency has published an inspirational material called "A whole family', which is targeted at the municipalities, where six early and preventive interventions are presented for families with children with signs of disability, and these are interventions that have been tested with good experience in other municipalities. So, of course, the counselling effort has to go on several legs, and we must therefore guide both parents and municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118160029	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118160030	I owe the President an apology for not reading the question. We need to consider this hole patched up here. So I would like to say to the Minister: the group of parents is expressing the view that they do not see a specific individual re-evaluation of a specific case taking place, and they state that the decisions that have come from the Ankestyrelsen are not being complied with, and that is why I ask the Minister: is there not a need for a slightly larger stick than a voluntary guide that the municipality can accept? I recognise that it is individual progress that it is a very wide range of efforts that need to be made, and not two families are the same, and not two courses are the same, but nevertheless it is quite clear that it is absolutely essential that the municipality should follow good governance and meet citizens with a high degree of confidence in order to provide the necessary guidance, provide the necessary assistance and advice in the course of the course that will remain. And often it is a lifelong process, you start with where it is important where you have each other and that you as a citizen do not experience that you have to fight. So it is important to ask: if quality is not in order, what kind of media will the Minister use?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118160209	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118160211	Well, I've already used two media. I have sent a letter in which I very directly express that there is a discrepancy between the effort that families experience that they are getting and the effort that the municipality is experiencing. I have then received the statement afterwards, which I will then follow up with a letter, so I am using two mechanisms, as a matter of fact, in which I say that this dissertation will simply have to be agreed with. I also have an expectation of this, and I also write it very clearly to the mayor, that I have the expectation that this dissertation will be offset so that the parents feel more taken in hand and feel that it is not so difficult to go to the municipality. That is also why, in the previous question, I spoke about this good dialogue and that it is so important, between the municipality and citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118160311	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118160313	I fully agree with the Minister that it is absolutely essential that we have a good dialogue and that we have been taken seriously and seriously. When I have some doubts, it is a little related to the fact that in the article I am referring to from Nordjyske Stiftstidende, the answer from the municipality is that now telephone opening times have also been extended. Then I have some doubts as to whether this is an answer in relation to parents not being taken seriously, do not experience the decisions with the guidance that is now needed for them. That is why I say that we need guidance tools other than those from the voluntary fund.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118160351	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118160353	Actually, I think the toolbox is good enough. We have both VISO and we have the task force, and then we have the opportunity, for example, to send a letter, which I did before Christmas and where I have received an answer back. That, among other things. I have also got back in that answer, of course, that you want to ensure closer follow-up with regard to the families affected here, and I expect, of course, when the mayor writes it to me, that that is what is going to happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118160422	The questioner, last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118160424	I would just like to conclude by saying to the Minister: thank you for receiving this matter. In fact, I think it is right, as it were, in North Jutland. Then I would say that I will follow it up and follow it, because it has made a great impression to meet this degree of mastness, I dare say, of a group of parents who have their problems to contend with in advance. So I welcome the Minister's approach to it and do not have a real question to the Minister in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118160453	Minister
ParlaMint-DK_20170118160454	This is a matter which has made a great deal of impression on everyone, I believe, and I am absolutely convinced that the committee will also follow the matter. Then I can say that it makes a great impression on me when you get praise from North Jutland it's not every day it happens.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118160508	Then we say thank you to the questioner Orla Sea and to the Minister for Children and Social Affairs for the end of Question No. 22. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 23, and that's by Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, and it is also for the Minister for Children and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118160523	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118160525	Thank you. Does the Minister agree with the statement by former Head of Department Jesper Zwisler that the Ministry of Finance has been given too much power and that it is deeply problematic that administrators from the Ministry of Finance, in addition to deciding how much money is being allocated, for example. In this context, I would like to stress the importance of the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances and preparations. Homeless People Need to Be Rewarded?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118160546	Thank you. Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118160548	Thank you for the question. As Minister for Children and Social Affairs, it is my responsibility to work to implement the government's policy in the field of child and social affairs, and the responsibility of the Minister for Finance and thus also the Ministry of Finance is another: the state's finances, in other words, to ensure that the Danish state and the public sector have a healthy economy and that state funds are used as efficiently as possible. Of course, the two objectives cannot be seen in isolation from each other; on the contrary, they are closely linked. Because if the state does not have sound finances and therefore also has money in the box, it will be very difficult to implement an active policy in the field of child and social affairs. Conversely, social policy and the results of that policy also affect the state's overall economy. That is why we have close cooperation within the government and among the ministries, it goes without saying, and so it must be. That is precisely why I do not recognise the criticism that has been made.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118160643	The questioner has two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118160644	Thank you. Former Head of Department at the Ministry of Social Affairs, Children and Integration Jesper Zwisler's statement that the Minister for Finance has been given too much power is not a single swallow. Former Head of Department at the Ministry of Business and Industry Jørgen Rosted has also stated that the Ministry of Finance tends to use its power to say that this is the case. In this way, the Ministry of Finance has a decisive influence on what politicians think can be done and what cannot be done. I am not talking about the problem of the accounting models of the Ministry of Finance, such as ADAM and DREAM, although former Minister of Finance, Mogens Lykketoft, has said that if Stauning had had the same approach and calculated in the same way as in the Ministry of Finance, we would never have had a welfare society. For me, the problem is to a greater extent that the accounting models of the Ministry of Finance are set in such a way that relief in top tax is always good for society, while an investment in better education, childcare, care for the elderly and social measures does not, on the other hand, matter much more than that of Professor Jesper Jespersen in Politiken. However, it is neither a specific application of certain calculation models nor the fact that it is seen through certain spectacles that I am concerned about, but more so the power given to the Ministry of Finance in the public sector and that it gives rise to a democratic deficit. The Ministry of Finance is spending considerable resources on managing the entire public sector, not just the Finance Act. This gives the Ministry of Finance a central position in the development of the public sector. But other ministries and departments and agencies have been through debureaucratisation, relocation of jobs, regulatory simplification as well as budget management, efficiency, digitisation, public innovation, savings, yes, the list is a long one. At the same time, the Ministry of Finance has increased its powers. In my view, there is no doubt that this leads to an increasingly unequal relationship of power between the Ministry of Finance and other ministries. I would like to know whether the Minister does not agree that this is a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118160831	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118160833	Well, I just have to admit, I don't recognize the criticism being made. For the way in which the rate pool is distributed and for what purpose, every autumn is the subject of negotiations with the parties of the Folketing, and this is on the basis of a presentation from the Minister for Social Affairs. And the conciliation circle, which, as you know, is made up of everyone except Enhedslisten, is involved, and it usually takes time to reach agreement. And although I, as Minister for Children and Social Affairs, still have the benefit of sitting at the table when negotiating, I have been involved in a number of debates as rapporteur, and I do not recognise the image that the Ministry of Finance should dictate the content of the rate pool or social policy. It is the parties of the Folketing that do so and, in this case, their social rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118160921	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118160922	I fully agree that it is the responsibility of the Minister of Finance and the Ministry to keep track of revenue and expenditure and the economy at that stage, but this is retail management. In a P1 feature, Jesper Zwisler, the former Head of Department, gave a number of examples of how this has happened, namely that the Ministry of Finance was aware of framework distributions, which topics could be negotiated, methods, notes, etc. etc. I would then like to ask the Minister whether she too, as rapporteur, did not have the impression that the Ministry of Finance has quite a lot of power in terms of governing what can be done, what can be done and what should not be done in the ministries.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118161009	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118161010	I have to admit, I haven't. And here I am not actually speaking as a minister; here I am speaking as a former rapporteur who has been involved in the negotiations. I have been involved in many wage-pool negotiations, and I have been in the Ministry of Health, in the field of employment and also in the Ministry of Social Affairs. So I have not seen that there has been a dictatorship. On the contrary, I have seen a framework and a proposal from the government that is then being negotiated. That's why it takes so much time. It is, of course, because everyone offers constructively and because we have to work constantly to find each other in these negotiations. So I do not think it is dictated by the Ministry of Finance. I have the impression that the real debate lies with the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118161054	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118161055	I am really glad to hear the Minister say that. Now I also know that the Minister has not been a minister for so long, and that is why we must look forward to negotiations. I hope then that the Minister will be firm that this is actually something that is going on in the course of the negotiations in the individual Ministry of Trade, so that the examples pointed out by the former heads of department and economists are in fact not something that we will see in the Ministry of Social Affairs in the future. I will just take note of that and then I hope the Minister will stick to it when it comes to the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118161130	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118161133	I would like to confirm that I have clear intentions to hold on to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118161139	So is Question No 1 by Mr McMillan-Scott. Twenty-three closed. We thank both the questioner, sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, and the Minister for Children and Social Affairs. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 24, and it is for the Minister of Transport, Building and Housing, and it is asked by Mr. Rasmus Prehn of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118161153	Here you go for the reading of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118161157	Thank you, President. Does the Minister agree with his rapporteur, Villum Christensen, when he says in Information on 9 January that the train belongs to the past, therefore we need a paradigm shift. Instead, the future is about small, cheap and more environmentally friendly cars that are self-propelled and about much more flexible buses, and with the rapporteur from the Left, when he says in the same place that if Aarhus plans to spread the easy track in several directions, it will be at its own expense, just as we are not prepared to accept an increase in the light track at Ring 3 in Copenhagen?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118161235	Thank you. Then it is the minister for an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118161238	Thank you for the question. Sir. Villum Christensen's finding that the train belongs to the past would probably have been a controversial statement and a sharp analysis if the quote was from 9 January 1917. The truth is that during the 100 years since 1917, the car was the clear example of disruption long before the concept was introduced, and long before it became part of the content of a Danish government basis. We know from the transport habit study that all Danes travel on average 37.2 km a day. More than 80%. the transport is carried out by car. Even with large subsidies for public transport and high taxation of cars, the car is the overriding mode of transport. We travel almost ten times as much by car as by train. Sir. Villum Christensen's comment is based on the trends we can see in technological developments and in the use of new technologies by citizens. And what are we seeing here? Yes, we can see cheap cars, we can see self-propelled cars, we can see electric cars that are great to drive in, we can see environmentally friendly cars, and we can see a development and confidence in the shared economy of transport. In addition, the car is also part of public transport, for example. taxi is a form of public transport. Who knows? Maybe the little self-propelled minibuses, like Mr. Villum Christensen refers to, in some years' time, for many of the people who do not have a driving licence because of a physical disability or who cannot afford or do not want to have trouble owning a car. In fact, there are good prospects in improving public transport services outside cities by establishing more flexible services. Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen expresses what I would call a healthy scepticism about whether the decided light rail lines in Denmark are worth the money. However, we still have no experience of the use of modern light rail solutions in this country. There's a chance we'll get it before that. I do not want to hide the fact that I would like to see the evaluation of the first experience before we finally take a position on new light rail projects. Then I can see that the President is standing up and that is why I am stopping.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118161458	Then it's the questioner, and there's two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118161500	Disruption is the answer from the Minister. That is also the response of the government. That's the new one, but does it have anything to do with reality? Let's assume, quite low-practical, that after this question we move onto the street, walk over Knippelsbro and go down to the metro station at Christianshavn and take the metro towards Copenhagen Airport, look at how many people are on board that metro train, and say that the train is past, and that all the people who are on that metro train now have to go up to the street and move in self-propelled cars or new buses... is that a realistic scenario? Is it there, sir? Villum Christensen and Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen is right? Are all the people who drive the subway every day going up and running on our roads instead? What will be the consequences? Is that the policy of the Liberal Alliance in the field of transport? Is that the way we solve it? Is the Minister quite sure that it is not common sense that has been the subject of disruption here?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118161612	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118161614	I do not think the train is past, I think the train is present, but I see the article referred to as two transport rapporteurs' bid for what the future is. What will happen in the future? And there I understand that we are thinking about individual means of transport, such as the mode of transport of the future, perhaps those that are self-propelled and that drive much closer than the current cars, and that are therefore self-propelled, so that you can do a job while you are being transported, just as you can on the train today. So I don't agree that the train doesn't belong in the present. This is the future that I am thinking of here and on which I see the two transport rapporteurs have expressed their views. And the future is somewhat more uncertain and will probably offer many new things which, as the car has done in the past, will also be able to put the train service under pressure.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118161713	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118161714	The minister answers here that he does not believe that the train is past. Does the Minister disagree with that, as Mr. Villum Christensen says when he says directly: The train belongs to the past, therefore we need a paradigm shift?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118161731	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118161731-2	I think sir... Rasmus Prehn there takes Mr. Villum Christensen a little too much on the floor. I recognize that's it, sir. Villum Christensen has said, but I don't think that's what he meant. Because we can see that the train is driving out there right now, and the metro has a formidable offer to transport in large cities like Copenhagen, and it does so in large cities abroad. There we have subways and subways that work excellently. So transport within densely trafficed urban cores is also very much about transport on rails in the present and probably also in the future. However, when it comes to other possible ways of doing this, especially in the future, we just have to recognise that things are probably going to happen which means that we will not be able to decide here and now with sense perhaps even more light lanes than we already have.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118161829	The questioner for the last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118161830	No, it is with some relief that I note that the Minister in this way corrects his transport rapporteur from the Liberal Alliance, so it is a completely unrealistic scenario to take all passengers off the subway and then get them on the road instead. Of course, it cannot be linked at all, it screams to heaven, and it is a very inappropriate statement to make. But will the Minister rule out the possibility that in future we will need to expand our metro or to create light lanes in densely populated areas such as Denmark? Here in Copenhagen, because it is not realistic to move forward with self-propelled cars either?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118161909	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118161910	No, I can't rule out the need to expand the subway. I'm a little more sceptical about light rail projects, I have to say. Because I think there is a great deal to suggest that separate bus lanes make at least as much sense as that it should be on a track on an easy track. At least it's cheaper, and it can seem to meet about the same need, so you get more value for money if I'm gonna stay in the English, or more value for money • with separate bus lanes than you might do with light lanes. I look forward to gaining experience from the light rail projects that have been started, at least before we launch new light rail projects with money from the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118161953	Thank you. That concludes Question No 24. We are going to Question 25, and it is also for the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing, and that is also for Mr. Rasmus Prehn, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118162001	Mr President, we have the floor. Rasmus Prehn for reading the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118162006	Thank you very much, President. What does the Minister generally think of the so-called 2+1 solutions, such as: can be established on roads between Thisted and Aabybro and Frederikshavn and Skagen?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118162019	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118162021	Thank you for the question. In general, I believe that two plus one roads are a sensible solution if local conditions allow it and there is a need for it in terms of traffic. A two-plus one-way provides better opportunities for overhauls, and they can wind up a little more traffic than two-track roads. With the latest change in traffic law, it is now also possible to drive 100 km/h. on the two plus one roads which are parted as expressway roads and which are designed for that purpose, inter alia: with anti-lock guard in the middle. I am aware that in the past studies have been carried out on road upgrading of parts of the said sections. However, I must point out that the scope for new investment in infrastructure is currently very limited.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118162103	The questioner, two minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118162105	After the previous debate, it is quite nice that we have an area where we are somewhat more in agreement. Yesterday we had the pleasure of having a first reading of another two plus one solution, namely Haderup Omfartsvej, where we have a broad settlement in the Folketing. We broadly agree that transport policy is a good place to bet on getting these better roads. When I highlight the concrete roads in North Jutland, it is because it has been something that has been very local and because there is daily congestion and congestion on them, that is, on the route from Aabybro towards Thisted and on the route from Frederikshavn to Skagen. After all, the Minister has said in the past, not least in his accession, that if there were projects that had a good social business, he would be very positive towards them, and there is much evidence that society can become a great deal richer by investing on these roads, precisely because with two plus one solutions there is a great deal of mobility for the money. And so there's tribulation in these areas, and you're gonna be able to win a lot of time. If we take the stretch to Skagen, we can see that there are a great many, among other things. from the fishing industry in Skagen, which needs to get into Frederikshavn and beyond on the motorway, which is currently being considerably delayed because there is no better road link. Will the Minister not promise to take a closer look at this so that, when we get some money at some point, it can be given priority? It might also be that the Minister could give some suggestions as to whether there might be some places we can find money for this. Because there is no doubt that as a society we would be richer by investing in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118162243	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118162244	After all, we already have a rich list of road investment projects with a very, very positive return on the amount invested if we expand or build new ones. And it is the case with new studies and new calculations of the return on new areas that, if you make investments, you take them in turn, compared to where you think it is most necessary, and therefore I cannot promise here and now that I will start a study on the said sections. For there are also other lines where we have a clear feeling that if we do the calculations, it will show positive results. So I can't give that guarantee right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118162330	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118162331	In fact, I respect the honest answer given by the Minister of Transport here. It would also be foolish to promise something that then has very long prospects or that can be difficult to keep, so much respect for it. But will the Minister help to take such due care that the Minister will accept an invitation to come to the area and look at these sections of the road in a difficult situation, so that at a time when there is a possibility of funding, we can consider an EIA study of these sections with the intention of starting when there is money?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118162410	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118162411	I can inform you that I can go on a tour with approx. 178 members of parliament who will show me routes in their local area where there is distress at certain times of the day. I'd be able to use approx. Two years on going on that tour around the country, and I sometimes accept that when there is a particular reason for doing so, and I check every time whether there is a particular reason for doing so. However, I have not yet had the opportunity to examine whether there is a particular reason why I should go with Mr Beazley. Rasmus Prehn for these two roads. However, the point is that there is not enough time in a minister's calendar to visit all the places where there are members of parliament who believe that there is tribulation and that the minister should look at.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118162454	The questioner for the last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118162455	Then I will have to find some more documentation that I can give personally to the Minister, because there is every reason to look at these two roads I am highlighting today. Because we compare it to, among other things. Haderup Omfartsvej, on which we have a construction bill yesterday, I would say that there is a great deal to be said for the two sections of North Jutland to be included. So I very much hope that with new documentation the Minister will think that it is a worthy project to visit, because it makes really, very good sense, not only for the many commuters, but also for the business community who need to get to and from.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118162532	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118162533	In any case, sir. Rasmus Prehn, thank you very much for inviting us.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118162539	Thank you. That was the end of Question 25, and we thank both the questioner and the Minister. Then we go to Question 26, and it is also to the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing, and that is by Mr. Kaare Dybvad, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118162551	Mr President, we have the floor. Kaare Dybvad for reading the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118162556	Thank you, President. What does the Minister think should be done in order for more tenants to be covered by an in-house insurance, like 20%? of the tenants are not covered today according to the Resident magazine?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118162606	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118162608	Thank you for the question. I have read the article, which is based on an analysis which shows that one in five tenant is not covered by an in-house insurance. In my optics, a good liberal society is about freedom under responsibility. This means, among other things, that if you think it is worthwhile to insure yourself, you should finally obtain insurance. But it's a very private matter. Owners have different starting points to insure themselves, and we must respect that. Every tenant must be allowed to make his or her own priority. Home insurance is a private offer that you can buy or not. Most people think this is sensible, but some can, for example. have so few values in their home that they don't think the insurance is worth the money. I'm not gonna make myself a judge of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118162656	The questioner. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118162657	Thank you very much. But does the Minister not think there can be any problem in that we have some residential areas where we are now, among other things. has been documented by the Rockwool Foundation that no significant improvements have been made and that there are residents who have ended up in unfortunate situations in one way or another? And the fact that you do not have insurance, not only in terms of their own values, but also in terms of the values of the housing area as a whole, is helping to exacerbate the mood that arises if, for example, you are going to be able to do something about it. In the case of a person who is not insured, he is in a position to damage something. Then you may not dare stand by it because you are in the situation that you then have a claim of perhaps up to several hundred thousand kroner, if you for example. Someone's been hit by a bike. Does the Minister not think that it creates an independent problem in these residential areas that in this way you have people who in some way risk not wanting to stand by the things they do, because in this way they can put themselves in such a debt that they can never get out of it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118162753	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118162754	Well, it's certainly a good thing that you stand by it if you've come to destroy other people's things. I'm not an insurance expert, but I don't think an in-house insurance can cover it. Looks like there's some kind of liability insurance that's gonna be needed. But I can tell you so privately that in the many years I left home like approx. 19-year-old, and until I got a regular job and a decent salary... what was I at that time? Twenty-five years or something, so while I was reading, I didn't have any in - room insurance. And I still believe that to this day was a rational and sensible choice of me, because the shipping box I had dragged away from home, the few books I had, and the old computer I had, was not worth a home insurance policy. And I don't think it was a problem that I didn't have insurance back then.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118162847	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118162848	Thank you. After all, we are not talking about students or people who live in a ship's box. Now we are talking about families and people who, apart from having to take care of themselves, may also have to take care of children and other members of a household. And in this context, in my assessment at least, it creates an increased tension in an area. There is a risk that there will be people who are in very unfortunate situations where they simply cannot meet a demand and therefore, in addition to the crime and problems that are already in vulnerable residential areas, they will be creating a further problematization. Does the Minister disagree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118162931	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118162932	Well, I'd be very surprised if this study didn't include young people living in youth housing as well. And that means that it may be young people who have not yet built up a content in their apartment that is worth insuring. But it may also be people who are higher in years who do not think they have things worth insuring. It does not have to be children's families with high values that are suitable for insurance. So I really do not think it is possible to read from that article that there should be the problem which Mr. Kaare Dybvad says there is.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118163010	The questioner, last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118163012	I don't have anything else.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118163014	Then we would like to thank both the questioner and the Minister. Question 26 is closed. We're going to question 27. It is also for the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing, and it is also for Mr. Kaare Dybvad, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118163035	Mr President, we have the floor. Kaare Dybvad for reading the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118163041	Thank you, President. What importance does the Minister think it has for housing social work that only 38 per cent. of the general housing organisations which have areas on the National Police list of areas at risk of crime, believe that there is sufficient police coverage where the figure in 2010 was 70%.?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118163055	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118163057	Thank you for the question. I would like to start by emphasising that the issue concerns matters for which I, as Minister for Housing, am not responsible. Police coverage in areas at risk of crime is a matter for the Ministry of Justice. I don't have my own home police. Nor is it possible for me to say anything factual about exactly what it means for housing social action, how housing organizations in police so-called SUB areas are experiencing the extent of the overall presence of the police. Having said that, however, I do of course believe that it is best if the social and police effort goes hand in hand. It is of course very important for the development of residential areas towards well-functioning neighbourhoods that residents can feel safe and secure. I would also like to call for the security-building and crime-prevention efforts in vulnerable residential areas to be closely coordinated with those of the police, which, as far as I am aware, is also the case in many of the residential areas challenged by crime and insecurity.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118163203	The questioner, two minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118163205	Thank you very much. I imagined that the Minister would try to pass it on to another minister. If I had put the question to the Minister for Justice, he might have thought that it was the territory of the Minister for Transport and Building, because it is about the housing social efforts. Now I'm putting it to the Minister of Transport and Building, and then he thinks it's the Ministry of Justice's area. But you have to choose whether it is one or the other to which it is given, and the Minister is responsible for the social and general housing areas, so I am going to correct it this way. I really think it is a pity that there is no more answer to it, because if you have time and if you have the patience to sit and read the government basis of the VLAK government, you will encounter two sections on general housing. You come across a section about the government wanting to bring down the rents for the 600,000 general housing, and then you come across a section about the need for the residents of these areas to be safe. As I hear the Minister here today, it is therefore something that we intend to do something about, but it is not something that is being proposed. Or you're not going to relate to this investigation. So it's some kind of entry prayer or some sort of thing that just has to be said when you write such a government basis. And yet it is strange, I think, that we have a government which, in relation to the million Danes living in general housing, really has no other offer than that of continuing and completing the social democratic plan to reduce rents that were adopted under the SR government at the time. One might say a little polemical that the government is pursuing social democratic housing policy in the broadest sense, but with significantly worse results, as we see from this study. In the second area, which will be given priority over lower rents, namely security for residents, it goes back, you can experience. But doesn't the Minister think it's a bit backwards that if you now have two areas in the government base that deal with the general housing • one area is rent reductions, and the other is this with security for those who live in the exposed residential areas • then you have no idea what to do, you have no answer to what to do when you see that there is less security?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118163409	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118163410	Well, first of all, I would like to make it clear once again that there is not so much to discuss. So when we are asked whether police action is sufficient in certain residential areas, it is not my job as Minister for Housing to deal with it. Well, I'm not the one with the police under me. It is quite factually the Minister of Justice who has the police under him. And I'm quite sure that if mr. Kaare Dybvad asked the Minister of Justice whether the Minister of Justice would consider whether there were enough police in insecure residential areas, and the Minister of Justice would answer that question. But in addition, a number of things are actually being done to improve the security experience in vulnerable social housing areas. Some of these things have been initiated by the former S-R-SF government, and they have been initiated with the support of the Liberal Alliance, because I, as housing rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, have been involved in the negotiations where the money was set aside.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118163510	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118163513	Now I have learned that we should be very careful down here to say that the former housing rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance and the Minister, who is one and the same person, have the same views. So I won't do that. However, I would just like to say that we now have a former minister responsible for housing, for whom, within a year and a half and with the support of the Liberal Alliance and the other bourgeois parties, it did not succeed in making a proposal on how to create more security in those residential areas where there is obvious insecurity. We were always told it's coming in a minute. I have asked the Minister now: when will there be a plan for vulnerable residential areas? So we have not received an answer, and we do not seem to have an answer today either.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118163551	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118163553	Listen to this: When you start new things, for example. In 2014, it is not the case that in 2015 or 2016 or 2017 you will have to come up with something new again. It may well be that it has to have some time to work before deciding whether to do more or whether this is sufficient. Some of these things have been decided rather late in a process in which there was a social democratic government. I do not remember the exact dates, but it seems to me that things were also set in motion in 2014. But obviously it is the case in the socialist universe that as soon as you do something, you have to do something more immediately tomorrow, because otherwise you will not do enough. I think this is a rather strange approach to things.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118163638	The questioner for the last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118163639	What can be said is that in the old V government, Lars Løkke-government, there was an ambition to do something for security. Now there is an ambition in the new government to do something for security. But so, the time that has passed from the ambition to the formulation of nothing, just put it out a few words about when to do it, corresponds roughly to the time that it took Hitler to take the whole of Europe. You can say that some time has passed before this came into play, and I also think that somewhere, without doing anything, without changing anything, you could make a suggestion as to how long it has to take before you get to the place where you can have some ideas about what you are going to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118163716	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118163717	In any case, more than a month and a half have been spent on this government.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118163722	Question 27 is closed. We thank both the questioner and the Minister. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group It's for the Elder Minister, and it's by Mr. Simpson. Jeppe Jakobsen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118163735	Mr President, we have the floor. Jeppe Jakobsen for reading the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118163739	Thank you for that, President. Does the Minister believe that it is reasonable that the City of Sorø will not provide home help to citizens who go to their own homes unless they pay for an air cleaner themselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118163748	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118163750	Thank you for the question. The question refers to a decision on smoking and working conditions taken by a majority in Sorø City Council, consisting of New Civil, Left, Conservative and Danish People's Party. The decision, as I understand it, is that citizens who have chosen Sorø Elder care must not smoke when the staff of Sorø Elder care are at home and that it must be ensured that the home is ventilated before the staff arrives. If a citizen does not comply with these guidelines, the municipality will try to get the citizen to comply with the guidelines through an educational effort to the citizen. If the educational effort is not sufficient or where the smoke pollution is massive, an air cleaning machine can be accepted in the home for which the resident has to pay part of the cost. According to the smoke-free environments law, what we popularly call the Smoking Act, residents cannot be required to smoke in the home during the time when the staff are staying there. And it is also my view that, of course, account must be taken of the fact that staff are not exposed to passive smoking. However, it is also important to make it clear that for me the right to smoke in my own home is a right which the municipalities cannot deprive the citizen of. I think that the municipality of Sorø is far along the way making clear considerations. I am very much in favour of respect for each other and of citizens and home helpers talking together about how to find the good solutions for both sides.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118163922	The questioner. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118163924	Thank you for your answer. It is true, of course, that a good working environment is important for our employees in the care of the elderly, but it can never be the citizen's responsibility to ensure the good working environment. The responsibility for the workplace rests with the employer, in this case the municipality of Sorø. If you think about this situation, you might find yourself in a situation where the police will not move into a bar where smoking is allowed, because it would affect their working conditions. So this is, it can be said, a new break in relation to placing a responsibility actually incumbent on the employer in the places where the public service is to arrive. The Minister must agree that it is not acceptable, as responsibility for the working environment rests with the employer and not with the citizen who needs public help.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118164030	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118164031	I am not aware of all the details of the case in question, but from what I hear, I do not believe that the Smoking Act, which is formally not my area of ministry, makes it legal to charge a self-payment for an air cleaner to a citizen. However, the final assessment of the country's laws, as I understand the rules in this area, lies with the courts of the country and not with the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118164059	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118164101	So if the Minister thinks that it is contrary to the law to charge this amount to the citizen, will the Minister address the municipality of Sorø and say that their responsibility to provide services to citizens is above their desire to collect money from unbiased, smoking citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118164132	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118164135	I would like to make it clear once again that the right to smoke in your own home is a right which cannot be overridden by the municipality. It is therefore only possible to enforce a smoking ban during the period of residence of the staff. For me, it is about respecting each other and the conditions that are now in place. Generally speaking, it is locally flexible and good at complying with the Smoking Act to the satisfaction of both citizens and staff. So I am also counting on the municipality of Sorø to find a sensible solution within the framework of the law, which strikes a balance between, on the one hand, the possibility for residents to smoke in their own homes and, on the other hand, the concern for the health of employees.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118164220	The questioner for the last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118164222	So in the case that the municipality of Sorø does not find an appropriate solution, but continues to charge, yes, what you might call a user fee for home care, will the Minister ask about it, or how? Or is it incumbent on the citizens themselves to start a trial against the City of Sorø?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118164248	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118164249	The final assessment of the country's laws, as I understand the rules in this area, lies with its courts and not with me as a minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118164302	Thank you. Then it was the end of Question 28. We thank the questioner. We are going to Question 29, and it is also to the Minister for the Elderly, and that is by Mrs Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118164313	Mrs Astrid Krag has the floor for a reading of the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118164316	Thank you. This may not be the most serious question in the history of Denmark, but I'm trying to spell myself through it anyway. Will the Minister, following the consultation on violence and dementing on 12 January 2017, in which the Minister refuses, in previous consultations, to have denied that all released resources from the Minister's task force for debureaucratisation can remain in the care of the elderly, so as to guarantee that the funds remain in the care of the elderly?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118164337	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118164339	Thank you for the floor. My purpose in entering into the work of simplifying rules and documentation requirements in the care of the elderly is quite clear. I go into the work to give employees in the care of the elderly more freedom and better opportunity to spend their working time providing care and care for the elderly, so that the work is also seen even more meaningfully. The rules and documentation requirements that can be debureaucraticised have not been defined in advance. I cannot therefore give any guarantees in advance as to how any room for manoeuvre which may be released is used. This is something that will then have to be discussed between the government and the municipalities. I have agreed with KL to set up a working group precisely to examine which rules and documentation requirements could be relaxed or completely removed. The working group meets for the first time here in January and will look at both state, municipal and local rules and requirements.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118164443	The questioner. It's two minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118164445	Frankly, I am somewhat concerned that the Minister has made it clear in this way that she will not guarantee that the money can remain in the care of the elderly. Because if the money released by debureaucratizing cannot stay in the care of the elderly, then this is a saving round, a austerity round, a saving exercise. That is why I would just like to ask the Minister how it can be said that, on the one hand, it is not a problem that money is not included with the more elderly, because it points out that things can be made smarter, easier and less bureaucracy, and, on the other hand, there is no guarantee that the money released by the debureaucratisation can remain in the care of the elderly. Can the Minister not confirm that de facto debureaucratisation will be a saving exercise if the money is withdrawn from the sector?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118164527	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118164528	I am entering the work of simplifying rules with the aim of giving older workers greater freedom and better opportunities to spend their working time providing care and care to the elderly and not to take funds out of the care of the elderly. For the employees, it is about not spending their time on unnecessary documentation requirements, but being given the opportunity to focus on their core task. Today, unfortunately, many employees in the care of the elderly find that a large part of their working time goes with documentation. I would like to say to all staff in the care of the elderly that it is absolutely crucial for me that we have some time released from documentation to care and care for the elderly, and that is why I have also set up a working group with KL to help us identify the rules and documentation requirements that bind staff resources to administrative tasks rather than to care and care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118164626	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118164627	But, Minister, it is deeply worrying to have to hear here today in relation to the time that can be released by debureaucratisation, that it cannot guarantee that it will also be the SOSUs who receive. Because if the funds from debureaucratisation are withdrawn, it is not a time to be released to the elderly, as the Minister says. Then it's time, minutes that gets pulled out of the care of the elderly, and then we're straight on. Then the older person will not experience any more contact with the employees. On the contrary, the employees will find that they have to run even faster than they are today, and that is why it is very, very worrying if that is what the work on debureaucratisation is supposed to do, so there is no guarantee from the Minister that the time from debureaucratisation that may be released, the working time that may be released, can benefit the elderly. If the Minister asks me, it will undermine the whole basic argument behind the policy of the elderly, which we have heard the government stand for so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118164716	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118164717	As the questioner knows, care must be taken to provide guarantees, but I would say that this government gives priority to the area of the elderly. I am going into this work to give employees greater freedom and better opportunity to spend their working time providing care and care to the elderly and not with the aim of removing any funds released from the care of the elderly. Unfortunately, many staff members in the care of the elderly find that much of their time goes to documentation, so it is for this reason that I have now set up this working group, which will look into the work. And as I have said before, the group will meet here in January, and I expect that by the end of 2017 we will be there with some things about debureaucratisation. I am quite sure that the questioner from his time as Minister is aware of and understands that with rules, requirements and resources there is something that the government is discussing with KL and the municipalities, and we will do so when the results come up.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118164817	The questioner, last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118164819	In other words, if the Minister cannot see the insecurity that it creates out there, that the Minister is standing here and will not guarantee that the funds released, the working time released by the skilled staff through de-bureaucratisation, can benefit the elderly, then we have a very big problem. If debureaucratisation becomes a cover for further savings in the area of the elderly, then it is very bad. So let me just ask the Minister at the end: is that why the Minister has only taken the employer side into his task force? Well, where are the employees, where is the FOA, where is the Danish Nursing Council? Where are the older ones themselves, the older ones, the older ones? Why is it only the National Association of Municipalities that the Minister has taken to his task force?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118164859	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118164900	Then I can tell you that there will of course be a follow-up group containing the people mentioned by the questioner there. But I must also repeat that I have gone into this work of debureaucratisation in order to free up the time that can be spent on care and care rather than on unnecessary documentation, and not for the purpose of taking funds from the care of the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118164928	Thank you. That was the end of Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 30, and it is also for the Minister for the Elderly, and it is also for Mrs Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118164938	Mrs Astrid Krag has the floor for a reading of the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118164941	This is a shorter question than before, and it says: will the Minister inform us of five new concrete initiatives that the Minister will take to improve the working environment in the country's nursing home?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118164948	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118164949	Thank you for the floor. Let me begin by stating that the government cares about and has a look at the working environment in the country's nursing home. Staff are absolutely essential for the elderly to have the life they deserve and the care and care they need in everyday life. I am therefore very pleased that, over the last year and a half, the governing parties have launched a series of concrete initiatives to improve the performance and working conditions of the country's nursing homes. I would now like to mention five initiatives. Firstly, with the dignity billion we have set aside 1 billion. kr. extra annually for a more dignified care. The vast majority of the funds go to more warm hands in the care of the elderly. Secondly, with the new rock card, nursing homes receive half an hour's extra help a week, which they can have in cooperation and dialogue with the nursing home staff themselves. Thirdly, together with the KL, I have set up a working group to find inappropriate rules and documentation requirements so that staff can concentrate more on their core task of caring for the elderly. Fourthly, we have set aside 470 million together with the pool of rates. kr. to the new National Dementia Action Plan and a number of initiatives including: the health and safety at work will benefit. For example: We set aside 145 million. kr. to a practical increase in competence. And finally, fifthly, as indicated by the government base, we are setting up a management committee to support good governance in the public sector, which also benefits the working environment in nursing homes.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118165131	The questioner has two minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118165132	When I ask about this, it is because there has been a discussion in recent times about how important it is with work on health and safety at work and how serious it is that you as a manager should take work on health and safety at nursing homes. I would like to say that I think these are commendable initiatives that the Minister has listed. They may fall short of an economic policy, where the municipalities have to start cutting down each year and then subsequently seek pools and correct some of the things that the Minister mentions • some of them they themselves have helped to obtain funding to implement. But I find it difficult to see that this is directly related to the issue of improved working conditions. So when the answers are so far removed from the specific working environment of the employees here, I would really just like to ask the Minister whether the Minister acknowledges that when we talk about care for the elderly, even if you may not believe it, when you think about dangerous construction sites or road workers with fast traffic on the motorways, or other occupations, you might think about as dangerous care for the elderly, there is indeed an area where there are very many accidents at work, where there are very many occupational injuries and where there is a great deal of wear and tear. Does the Minister recognize that picture?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118165248	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118165249	At any rate, I am incredibly pleased that we in the government are giving priority to care for the elderly and that we have taken so many new initiatives that will improve efforts and also the working environment in the country's nursing homes. Because, of course, we have to take it seriously when four out of ten employees in the care of the elderly are considering stopping. That is also why more money has been allocated to the area not only in 2016 and 2017, but also in the years to come. And the majority of these funds go to more employees. In addition, we now also strengthen the skills development of the employees in the area of dementia, and we initiate a debureaucratisation initiative and develop the management so that the employees have more time for the core task.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118165339	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118165340	Every time I have the opportunity to discuss the policy of the elderly with the Minister, I get the same list of what is laid down in last year's Finance Act. I think I can do it in my sleep soon, and of course the Minister is allowed to repeat it every time. But if we now say that it is independent of that discussion, regardless of the municipal budgets, regardless of the annual finance law, then the work at the local nursing home in relation to the working environment is certainly crucial. I hope the Minister will agree with that. And I just have to ask again when we see that this is a profession where there is a very high risk of wear and tear and accidents at work, if that is not at all something the Minister intends to take any separate initiatives in relation to.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118165422	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118165423	First of all, I am always open to new and good proposals, so I am happy to have a dialogue with Mrs Astrid Krag on how to improve conditions in care for the elderly. The last time, unfortunately, the questioner had to resign at short notice, but I look forward to seeing each other and talking about any good proposals we can make. In addition, I think it is very important to state that more money has been allocated to the area not only in 2016, but also in 2017. Most of them go to more employees. There is no doubt that we have an extremely important influence on the working environment out there and that we have competence developed our employees and develop management in this way, because management is also infinitely important for the work environment. So I look forward very much to getting it started.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118165524	The questioner, last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118165525	But I guess that was not really the answer to what my question was about, namely that, regardless of what is now adopted by the Finance Act, regardless of what we can now agree on in the pool of rates, regardless of what is now a priority, when you put the municipal budgets in place, regardless of all that is a basically important work in the individual nursing home in relation to ensuring the working environment. I'm not an expert on this, I've never been the head of a nursing home, but I guess there's a whole setup that needs to work in relation to it. I am just interested to hear the Minister whether she is thinking about the existing rules in relation to working conditions in the country's nursing home, which I at least consider to be very crucial, because we know that, as the Minister knows, I take it from how hard a working environment it is, how many occupational accidents there are and how grueling an industry it is to work within.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118165615	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118165616	I am quite sure that in the individual nursing homes they are very concerned about how their staff are doing. At least this was something that I was aware of every day when I was in charge, because I knew that if the staff were not well, they would find it difficult to help a resident as well. That is why, in my opinion, the working environment is one of the most important things, and it must be given priority. Not only when we make the workplace assessment that must lie, but also in everyday life, day after day, is the most important thing at all. That's what our employees deserve.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118165655	Thank you. And that was the end of Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian We thank the questioner. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 31, and it is also for the Minister for the Elderly, and that is by Mrs Karin Gaardsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118165706	We give the floor to Mrs Karin Gaardsted for the reading of the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118165708	Thank you very much. Does the Minister not consider the statutory workplace environmental assessments to be important?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118165718	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118165720	Thank you for the floor. I would like to emphasise that a good working environment in the care of the elderly is important. A good working environment is essential for employees to focus on their core task: ensuring good and dignified care for the elderly, based on the needs of the individual citizen. In addition, a good working environment helps to increase employees' work satisfaction and motivation, minimise staff replacements and reduce sick absenteeism. I certainly believe that a workplace assessment can be a good tool to help bring any health and safety problems to light.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118165759	The questioner, two minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118165800	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It was a very good argument to hear, that is to say, that workplace assessments create more job satisfaction, better motivation and less illness among staff. However, the reason why I am asking the question is, of course, that it appears from the Ekstrabladet's access to the Labour Inspectorate's monitoring reports from the nursing home Lotte that the Lottehomet for a long time, where the Minister was head there, so much on the statutory requirement for the preparation of workplace assessments. That is why it is so important today, when the Minister is a minister and no longer the head of a nursing home, to hear whether the Minister has the same thoughts today, i.e. whether it is something you do not have to do; whether you do not have to hand them in in time; and whether, even if it is only something that has to happen every three years, it is not of great importance, i.e. whether it is something you can do if you have time for it. It is very important for the Danes to hear whether the Minister thinks that the statutory workplace environmental assessments should be met.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118165921	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118165922	It is now a number of years since I was head of Lotte, and I stand here today as Minister for the Elderly. I have become Minister for the Elderly to ensure a dignified and good care for our elderly. The working environment in the care of the elderly is important not only for the workers' satisfaction and well-being, but also because satisfied employees increase the likelihood that the residents will thrive and receive good care and care. It should not be a secret that I have not gone so far in the papers, but I would like to make a statement now, the questioner also points out that existing rules and guidelines must, of course, be followed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118170001	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118170002	I am, of course, pleased to hear that, because I think they should. It makes me wonder whether the Minister has regretted what the Minister was doing as head of the nursing home Lotte.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118170017	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118170018	As I said, I have gone into politics to ensure better conditions for the elderly, and I think it is very important that we go into the task that is ours, namely to ensure that the elderly have a safe and dignified old age, instead of spending time and effort on what I have done in a small nursing home at Frederiksberg 5, 10, 20, yes, almost 30 years ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118170046	Then I have noted that there is a desire for a co-questioner on this point. Mrs Astrid Krag has the floor for one minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118170055	I do not see that the sound is on, but I must then just shout out loud and hope that the Minister will hear it. However, I would like to say to the Minister that when there is some interest in how the Minister conducted the work as head of the nursing home Lotte, it is of course because we have had to hear a great deal about all the wonderful results on Lotte. Well, now come the sound, thanks for that. That is why, of course, it is something that concerns not only me and not just the Social Democracy, but also quite a lot of other people in this country, i.e. if it turns out that those experiences cannot be directly copied because some of the most basic things were not under control. That is why I would just like to ask the Minister: how did you work with the working environment at Lotte when the Minister, last time I spoke here a few minutes ago, was able to tell me that she actually thinks that the working environment is important and is something that should be taken into account as a leader? How did you work with the working environment at Lotte when you didn't use the workplace assessments and the rules that are around OSH organisation, etc.?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118170156	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118170157	I have to say that we did indeed have a workplace assessment and that I would like to stress that the working environment has always been important to me. Staff are absolutely essential for elderly people in nursing homes to have the life they deserve and the care and care they need in their everyday life. I was a very visible manager at the small nursing home, and every day I was in close dialogue with both the residents and my employees about how they felt and whether there were some special needs to be taken into account. What I experienced at the time was that the result of the close contact between me and my staff was that we had a very low sickness absence, and I was proud of that. The working environment and the well-being of my staff have always been very close to my heart.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118170254	Enquiries, final round.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118170256	I just have two questions here. Does this mean that it is not true what the Ekstrabladet has written following access to the reports of the Labour Inspectorate when the Minister now says that there were those job assessments? That is the first question. Secondly, I should simply like to ask the Minister to be a little more specific. It is really nice that the Minister has been very concerned about the well-being of his employees, because I fully agree that it is very much related to how good a care can be given to the elderly. But how did you work with the work environment under the direction of the minister, if you did not work with what the rules now prescribe to do? And does the Minister himself have any suggestions on how we could change the rules to remind them more of the way the Minister has worked?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118170337	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118170339	I certainly believe that APV, workplace assessment, can be a good tool to help bring any health and safety problems to light, but for me it was about the well-being of the staff and also about the day-to-day management task that I have always focused on and prioritised very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118170403	Thanks to the co-author. And then I give the floor to the questioner for the last round. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118170407	Thank you. So, I would like to stress that I do not doubt at all that the nursing home Lotte has been a great place to work; it is important for me to emphasise. And when I take it up today, it is only because we need to know whether the Minister shares the view of what other nursing home managers can do today, as the Minister himself did when she was head of her nursing home. This is why the recommendations made by the Labour Inspectorate are so important in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118170444	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118170445	I think it is very important that we as leaders learn from each other, and that is something that I can still recommend out there. Every time I was out a new place with other colleagues, I looked at how they did and was inspired, and it was something I brought home with me. And now I've gone into politics to ensure better conditions for the elderly. So I look forward to moving forward so that we can concentrate on our actually also joint task, namely to ensure the elderly a safe and dignified old age and not deal so much more with what I was doing in a small nursing home at Frederiksberg for 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, just under 30 years ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118170534	Thank you. That was the end of Question No 1 by Mr de la Malène, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 31 and we thank the questioner. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 32, which is also for the It's from sir. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118170547	Mr President, we have the floor. Bjarne Laustsen for reading the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118170549	Thank you, sir. President. I have a question for the Minister for the Elderly, who says: Does the Minister believe that it is important that each nursing home makes its own APV (workplace assessment) to ensure a good and safe working environment for employees?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118170605	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118170608	Thank you to the questioner for that question. Although the questioner is new, I would like to say that the question is similar to some of the other questions today. Let me begin by stating once again that a good working environment in the care of the elderly is very important. A workplace assessment can be a very good tool to help bring any health and safety problems to light. I therefore agree with the questioner that a workplace assessment can help ensure a good and safe working environment for employees. However, I also hope that the questioner agrees with me that it is not only important to focus on the working environment when preparing the workplace assessment. We need to focus on this every day of the year. Good and responsible management must be visible and be in close dialogue with employees on a daily basis about how they feel, whether there are special needs that management should take into account. Management really matters. That is why I am also pleased that the government is setting up a management commission which, among other things, is responsible. will focus on how we get public leaders who can motivate, set the direction and redeem the potential of our otherwise very skilled employees.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118170728	The questioner, two minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118170729	Thank you. I know from debates that I have had with the Minister for the Elderly, when we were both colleagues, that it is really nice to talk about older people's politics. I also believe that I have said on various occasions that the Minister is in fact a good social democrat and that all elderly people want to do the best they can. I have no doubt about that at all. But what is of interest here is when the Minister says that this is a piece of legislation that has been adopted in the Folketing for the sake of some things that I would ask the Minister to explain. Yeah, why do we even have those APVs? I also know that we have discussed how, if the minister's party came to power and wanted to reduce taxes to introduce user charges and cut the budgets of the municipalities, we can have satisfactory care for the elderly if we are to do so for less money. And there I think the Minister mentioned something earlier about too much bureaucracy. Is it those APVs with whom the Minister has a relationship that it may well be that it is a good tool, but that it is not something to be done?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118170839	Minister
ParlaMint-DK_20170118170839-2	There is no doubt that APV is a good tool • there is no doubt about that so that you can focus on the working environment that may be there. I make no secret of the fact that I did not care so much about papers, but the existing rules and guidance must of course be followed. Having said that, I would also like to say that my staff was my gold. Every day I was aware of how they felt, it was very important to me. And I'm sure that's what you could see, knowing that they had such a low absence and that they had the well-being they had. It is very important when you go to work, almost whatever job you are at, that you get a feeling that you look forward to going to work. I think that applies to all of us, including here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118170942	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118170944	There are two things I would like to ask the Minister. It is: Has the Minister ever, in order to reduce bureaucracy, proposed that those APVs could be removed because it was some people that could have been proposed by the Minister at any time that it was a matter of removing those APVs? The second is the question of why you have APV at all. Is it not true that in this area, in relation to the staff side, there is a great deal of sick leave, there has been a lot of wear and tear, there are a lot of those who have taken good care of our older fellow citizens who have been worn out, and there have been a lot of people who have had to have an early retirement pension? Does the Minister not share the view that this is why it is also necessary to take care of the working environment of employees?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118171031	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118171032	I have no doubt that when four out of ten employees have considered quitting work in the area of elderly care, it is because it is a hard pressure out there. That was one of the things I felt myself when I was there, namely that one of the greatest pressures on employees is the increasing requirement for documentation that has been through the past many, many years. There are employees out there who daily turn their backs on something they felt they ought to act on, to come in and write. That is why I think it is so important that we look at the documentation requirements and the rules that lie, see if something is unnecessary, because then we have to get the cold hands back into warm hands.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118171122	The questioner, last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118171124	Thank you. It may be that the Minister overheard it, but I actually asked whether the Minister has previously proposed removing the APVs because it seems that there was too much bureaucracy in it. When you're about to look at all these things and the minister thinks there's too much bureaucracy and too much documentation, it's also quite specific that you're going to propose removing the APVs, i.e. the workplace assessments for employees. Would it be suggested to remove them?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118171155	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118171156	Now that we are going to debureaucratize, everything has to be looked at. If I knew what might be removed, there was no need to set up a working group. I have set up a working group to look at all state rules, municipal documentation requirements and also at what is quite local. So I haven't gone into these thoughts that it's exactly the APV, but I guess you look at it all and see if there are any parts that we can remove and still keep our good working environment, because that's what's most important to me.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118171238	Thank you. That will be the end of Question 32. We thank the questioner and go to Question 33. It's also for the Minister for the Elderly, and that's by Mr. Knox. Erik Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118171247	I give the floor to Mr Seligman to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) in order to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118171251	Thank you for that President-in-Office. On the basis of the Minister's statements in the book Thyra Frank • Livsjode & Starstunder • that I agree that you should not write off after the neighboring care home, because they discover it in the municipality. That's why I'm writing for a nursing home in a Jutland municipality where I have a smart colleague. What he can't do on paper! I admire that man. And as he makes it fill. It usually happens in the simple way that he sends his papers over to me, and then I change the logo at the top. I have forgotten this only once, which caused confusion in the municipality.• Will the Minister then state how many times the Minister has copied documents from other nursing homes, and whether the Minister has copied documents other than workplace environmental assessments, including what types and in what context?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118171342	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118171344	Let me start by stating and repeating that I am here today as the Minister for the Elderly and not as former head of a nursing home in Frederiksberg. I have become Minister for the Elderly to ensure that older people are well cared for by the elderly. I also think that the Social Democrats should take a greater interest in how we ensure that our older people have a safe and dignified old age instead of spending time and effort on my time as head of the care home Lotte. I have said and written with a glimpse in my eye that I have written the workplace assessments of. I have done this in order to emphasise that my focus should be primarily on the elderly and that every day we should learn from the best in the area of the elderly. Therefore, my call is also to managers in the care of the elderly that they should suck up knowledge from all the places where they come so that the elderly can get to the centre, see where things work and where the working environment is good. Let's learn from each other. I always thought that was a really good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118171451	The questioner, two minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118171454	I fully agree with the Minister that it is a very good thing to learn from each other, but that is not what I asked. I asked if the Minister would indicate how many times the Minister has copied documents from other nursing homes and whether the Minister has copied types of documents other than workplace environmental assessments, including what types and in what context. The answer was something like: with a glimpse in the eye. But can the Minister not say exactly how many times and what kind of documents the Minister has written off during the time she was head of the Nursing Home Lotte?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118171531	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118171534	As I've said before, it's been a few years since I was head of Lotte. I'm here as Minister for the Elderly now. But I want to make it clear that I am an open person, and I always let myself and always have been inspired by others, and I have done so in my travels around the country when I have talked to employees and managers in the care of the elderly, and in my meetings with good colleagues from the other nursing homes. As I said before, how I would like to encourage everyone in the care of the elderly to be open and to learn from the best so that we can continue to develop the care of the elderly and provide the elderly with a safe and dignified care.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118171613	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118171615	If I'm going to be a little polemical, it's not for me now or else I'm going to say that the answer I get is that we learn from each other by writing off after each other. I hope that is not what the Minister thinks, since there is in fact a legal basis in which each nursing home has to make its own workplace environmental assessment. So I will try again: will the Minister indicate from which documents and how many times the Minister has written off after other colleagues?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118171648	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118171650	I've said and written those things with a glimpse in my eye. And I have done that to emphasise time and time again that the focus had come too far from the residents and our core tasks, and that we should have it back. That has been said with a glimpse in the eye, and it is also verified when you hear what a colleague from Jelling tells. So that's why I've said everything with a glimpse in my eye and in a fun way to focus on the core task. It may be regrettable that my sense of humor has been misunderstood, but that is the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118171736	Then I have noted that you want a co-questioner. It is now, and I give the floor to Mrs Astrid Krag, and that is a minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118171742	Thank you. So we have to hold on to the Minister here. Now it's called being inspired. Previously, it was called in the press to write some parts of. In other words, we need to be clear about whether there is anything other than workplace assessments where the minister has had this approach that you can copy from elsewhere. How often has this happened, in what other areas has it happened, and are there any other statutory papers that have been written off, copied or directly inspired, or what the Minister will call it? We still have to get answers to that. When we are a little concerned about it, it is because it is in both the book, in articles and in lectures some very detailed descriptions the Minister has given of how this has been done here. This means that the concern is a little increasing when we hear here that it was all just with a glimpse in our eye, and, on the contrary, we have been able to hear in detail how documents have been obtained, changed letterheads and sent them in and even once forgot to change the letterhead. It seems like a very detailed statement if it was all just a joke. So would the Minister not respond specifically to whether there are other types of document than workplace assessments where the same approach has been taken to workplace assessments?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118171858	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118171901	Apparently, I'm having a little trouble explaining what kind of humor that's been behind these things. As I have said before, it is no secret that I did not care so much about papers, but in return I was inspired by other talented colleagues whom I met in my years as a leader. And they're the ones I wanted to learn from. Being inspired was what mattered to me, and I am sure that what matters to our leaders out there at all is that we learn from each other and see how the others do. And, as I said, what the author refers to is said and written with a glimpse in his eye.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118171943	Then it's the co-questioner in the last round, half a minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118171945	It's a luxury. However, Minister, it is not just in one small interview that something has been said with a glimpse in the eye. It is partly in a portrait book by the minister, partly in interviews, and partly in incredibly many lectures. Most recently I heard from some citizens who have been to lectures as recently as October in a church in my constituency that the minister had given this report. So it was before there had been anything out there in the press about it. They had noticed how the Minister described in detail how to cheat on workplace assessments. It just seems very, very special that it should now be understood as something quite different from what the Minister has said so many times. I just have to remind the Minister that the answer she is giving in this Chamber today is therefore under ministerial responsibility. So I have to ask again: are there documents other than workplace assessments where the Minister has had this approach?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118172043	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118172044	And I have to say once again that I have gone into politics to ensure better conditions for the elderly. I think we should move on and concentrate on what is our task, namely to ensure that the elderly have a safe and dignified old age instead of spending time and effort on what I have done in a small nursing home 15, 20 and 25 years ago. I think that is very important.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118172109	Thank you. Back to the questioner and there is half a minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118172118	Thank you. I have some doubts about what a glimpse in the eye and a sense of humor means. Does this mean that the Minister has written off, or does it mean that what is in the book and what the Minister has said to several newspapers is not true? Incidentally, I myself attended a talk with the Minister at the Kogsbølle Assembly House, where the same thing was said, and I actually believed it. So I would like to know here today: does that glistening in the eye and humor mean that what the minister has been traveling with in the past is not true, or how is that to be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118172154	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118172155	The questioner simply has to understand what I am saying. It is said and written with a glimpse in my eye that I have written the workplace assessments of. And I have done it over and over again because I want to focus primarily on the elderly and our core tasks, which we need to focus on, and that we must constantly learn from the best in the area of the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118172223	Thank you, and that will be the end of Question 33. We shall now proceed to Question 34. It's also for the Minister for the Elderly, and it's also for Mr. Erik Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118172231	Mr President, we have the floor. Erik Christensen for reading the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118172233	Thank you. Will the Minister encourage other managers of nursing homes in Denmark to copy APVs from other institutions' APVs, cf. that the minister in the book Thyra Frank & Star Stunders & Livsjode & Starstunder: ▪ It took my skilled colleague and several of his colleagues three months to make an APV that they could approve in the municipality. It took us two and a half hours to write it off. We added a basement because they didn't have it over there. It ended up being awkward, because the Factory Inspectorate actually came, and there wasn't the room or corner that they didn't study with the magnifying?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118172309	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118172310	Thank you for the floor. I will reply briefly, because we have been on the subject before. A good working environment in the care of the elderly is important and it is important that employees' working conditions are in order. A good working environment and work satisfaction with the employees are crucial to ensuring that the residents receive good and worthy care in the individual nursing home. I have said and written with a glimpse in my eye that I have written the workplace assessments of. I have done this in order to emphasise that my main focus has been on the elderly and that we should be inspired by those who do well out there in the area of the elderly. Therefore, I would like to call on the managers of nursing homes to learn from the nursing homes where the residents are in the centre and where the working environment is good.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118172400	The questioner, two minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118172401	I hope that the Minister agrees that a workplace assessment is for the individual nursing home, and many nursing homes look very, very different and there are very, very different conditions. As a result, you can be inspired in many areas, but how your workplace is designed and what things do not work so well with employees is individual from nursing homes to nursing homes. So it has to be said that it is probably important for each nursing home to have its own APV drawn up. Now, on several occasions here today, I have heard from the Minister's reply to colleagues earlier that it is as if APV is a contradiction to good management. Well, good management is that you start from the tool that the APV is and find out what kind of issues there are and how you can do better in cooperation with your employees. I just think it's such a little bit strange that it's almost as if they're opposites. But I have to ask: is this the case, when the Minister, with a glimpse in his eye or with a sense of humor, appears to have written off after others, that this is something that the Minister would encourage other nursing home managers to do as well?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118172515	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118172516	I fully agree with the questioner that a workplace assessment, an APV, of course shows what is in the individual nursing homes with employees and what their mental and physical working environment is like. I fully agree with the questioner. But I would also like to repeat my answer. I have always been inspired by the best, and I hope that the leaders in the care of the elderly will do so today, so to speak, draw inspiration from the places where things work very well.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118172547	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118172548	In fact, I am quite sure that many nursing home managers do that today, that is, that they work well with others and are inspired by others. I have now tried a few times to get an answer as to whether it is the Minister's opinion that it is okay, if it is that in the search for inspiration from others one writes off from others in relation to the APV or perhaps completely fails to have an APV made. The Minister thinks it's okay.?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118172622	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118172623	But again I want to say that I have said those things with a glimpse in my eye to focus on what is important and what the core task is. And then I would say that I have gone into politics to ensure better conditions for the elderly, and the working environment is so important, because if the staff are not well, it is very difficult to ensure that the residents are well. I think it is important to move on and concentrate on our common task, namely to ensure that the elderly have a safe and dignified old age, instead of spending their energies on what I have done and not done in a small nursing home 5, 10, 15, 20, 25 and soon 30 years ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118172703	There is a co-questioner on it, so I give the floor to Mrs Astrid Krag. It's 1 minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118172709	But if this writing of APVs and perhaps other documents was a political stunt on the part of the Minister, when she was head of the nursing home, in order to highlight too much paperwork, then it is to be expected that the Minister would sit in the chair with a proposal on how to make it less bureaucratic. The Minister hasn't. The Minister has had many opportunities to explain, both today and on previous occasions before Christmas, whether something concrete could be made simpler. That is why I have to say that I am left with the feeling that we are not getting all the answers from the Minister here today. After all, the quote from the Minister is that it is usually done in the simple way that such and such, and I have forgotten about changing the logo only once. In these wordings it is clear that this has not only happened once, but has happened many times, and that it may be not only with workplace assessments, but also with other papers. When the minister looked here so long after that says: Oh, no, I didn't mean that at all. I do not have any political proposals linked to it, but now I say it was a political stunt because I disagreed with the bureaucracy in it. Can't the Minister understand that it's hard to believe completely? Would the Minister please explain why the Minister then talks about several times and describes in very concrete and very detailed terms how to break the rules, for example? In relation to specific workplace assessments?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118172826	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118172826-2	I am sorry, but it has been my sense of humor, and I have said here again and again that it was written and said with a glimpse in my eye to focus on the core tasks that we had taken our eyes away from over the many years that I have been in charge. I have always, and I would like to repeat my answer, always been inspired by the best, and I hope that the leaders in the care of the elderly today will draw inspiration from the places where things work well. This is the way we can really develop our care and care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118172902	Then it's the co-questioner for half a minute to finish.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118172904	But can the Minister not understand that if the Minister then sits down in the ministerial chair without a single concrete proposal to change the working environment, debureaucratise these working procedures which the Minister apparently thought were so wrong that they had to be dealt with so that the rules were broken, it sounds very, very hollow? If there are rules that have been so much opposed to the employees of the Minister's nursing home being able to provide the elderly with the care that was needed, then the Minister should be able to show up here and give us probably many, but at least five specific offers of rules that had to be changed and debureaucised, otherwise it seems like an explanation that has been invented for the occasion.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118172946	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118172947	If I knew exactly what had to be debureaucraticized, there was no need to set up a working group and a working group has been set up to look at the state rules, municipal requirements and also the things that have been done centrally out there, that is, what is not good and what may be unnecessary. That is what a working group has been set up for. I meet it with open arms and with an open mind, and I hear what that working group comes up with, and I look forward to hearing that very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118173027	Thanks to the co-author. Then we go to the main questioner and there is half a minute to finish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118173033	Thank you. I have to say that it is quite natural that one of the things which the Minister considers to be totally unnecessary bureaucracy is the assessment of the workplace, otherwise it would not have been necessary to write it off. So that was one of the first proposals the Minister could make, if that is what the Minister thinks. The last question I have is: if we now stick to the humor and glimpse in the eye, I would like to know, as a politician's colleague to the Minister, how I should know in future when the Minister thinks what the Minister is saying and how I should read whether it is with a glimpse in my eye and with a sense of humor behind it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170118173111	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118173112	I have gone into politics to ensure better conditions for the elderly. I think we should move on and concentrate on what is our task, namely to ensure the elderly a safe and dignified old age instead of spending time and effort on what I have done in a small nursing home at Frederiksberg 5, 10, 15, 20, 25 and soon 30 years ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118173141	Thank you, and then Question No. Thirty-four closed. That concludes Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170118173150	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday, 19 January 2017, at 12.00 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
