ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Giro, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 2144. He's enlisted to speak Senator Perosino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u5	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the support provided for in the measure is in view of the openings and departures. In my opinion, the openings must be done very carefully. Yesterday I heard in this RSA House. For personal knowledge of situations, I think it is the most delicate place where we must proceed with godly patience for both guests and relatives. However, it is good that we have set a timetable for openings; we hope that, with favourable data, the situation will even improve. The opening speech gives me the cue for a short digression. The goldsmith Mario Roggero had opened his business for three days, after the lockdown, in Grinzane Cavour, in the province of Cuneo, when he was the subject of an armed robbery. To defend his wife and daughter, Mario Roggero shot. Public opinion has taken Abel's side, on his side, because we are the goldsmith, even though we feel pity and compassion for the dead. The law is taking its course: notice of warranty as a due act, very thorough investigations in the immediate and the autopsy that - it seems from journalistic sources - has established that the bandits have been hit in the face and not on the run. A robbery is a moment, it lasts a few seconds, a minute at most; the brain, the instinct, the fear, the past that is glimpsed in an instant. I would like the name of Mario Roggero to ring again in this House because he is one of us, an Italian who works, who would like to work quietly and safely, who has done and who does Italy. I wish him a judicial process that is not a Calvary; I wish him and his family the strength to share, with the solidarity and friendship of many, the silent majority, in representation of the strong values that make our society. Decree-Law No 41: be a majority. I believe that we can still register within the parties, the broad lineup that supports the Government, the classification of ourselves, us and you - those who were majority before and those who have joined us now - according to an equality speech. I think that the amendments, above all of a sort, can be discussed, and there are important ones (ordinary ones do not normally involve charges). Otherwise, this House, the Upper House, does not have the opportunity to discuss and decide anything, because the drafts of the law, given the commission of the works or for reasons that I do not know, but that I do not like, are not discussed. For example, I had tabled an amendment on so-called over-thickness in buildings, in cases where there is a new construction, to improve energy performance or redevelopment of existing buildings for energy purposes, so that we can derogate from the increase in volumes, according to a calculation system, compared to walls and slabs. It is not trivial, because this amendment, which I hope to be able to re-examine and discuss with the competent Ministry and to have many colleagues sign it, can have beneficial effects on the famous superbonus 110%. I repeat, however, that, in my opinion, improvements can be made on this. Article 1, which is discussed, lays down capital contributions. It is true that the system of calculation has changed, but these contributions are never enough. Unfortunately, for the restart they will serve to a greater extent: of this we are all or almost all conscious. We should take advantage of this moment to study and regulate the transformations of society, the transformations of work, with rules to stay inside. I think that many restaurants and bars, unfortunately, will not reopen, but because some do not even have the requirements for the pandemic and what comes from it and will come from it. Whoever stays out will have to be the object of welfare or of new work, which can come from the PNRR, if we really believe everyone and if we normate and establish everything there is to change: according to the prescriptions of Europe, yes, but to our usefulness and for the use of Italy. In committing the funds for 2023, it is necessary to determine who anticipates payments to suppliers by cash and works before Europe pays. These rules can really create new work and get people out of the sofas. Article 2 allocates funds for the mountain. I speak Piedmontese. I saw a prospectus that I didn't like: 18 million in Piedmont and 50-60 million in other regions and provinces, according to parameters in which I don't find myself. Article 4 extends folders. The instalments of the break-up and balance and cancellation were postponed, according to previous deadlines, to 31 July or 30 November. The debts of less than EUR 5 000 assigned to the collection agents in the period 2000-2010 have been cancelled. On this point, I would like to invite the Government. I am sorry that the Undersecretary is not present at the MEF, but I would like to address the Undersecretary here. In the 6th Commission we received a document from the MEF, dated 6 October 2020, which says that the tax warehouse, of which someone in here fills his mouth, which was 986 billion, is actually 74 billion. The difference is abysmal. The 986 billion included the failed parties, the deceased and the ceased companies, the non-holders, the taxpayers already subject to previous enforcement precautionary action. Instead, it is 74 billion, half of which before 2015, therefore prescribed except interruption, and of which we must take note with a measure. This is because they do not exist: the 74 billion must be divided by two and, for the most part, derived from state or other bodies' credits and something from the INPS. Article 20 on vaccines, which also includes research funds, has allocated a very large amount (which is important and not just about vaccines), to the Special Commissioner for Emergency and Civil Protection, for 1,928 billion - they are the best funds available - and 2.8 billion to buy new vaccines. Vaccines must be bought at any price: I say this for the third time in this House. 500,000 vaccines a day is a good goal, but it's a starting point. On the basis of the data, given the fact that it is necessary to be vaccinated twice, it takes 200 total days to vaccinate all, less those already vaccinated. After that, we have to start again. I hope that there will be, from here on, a small fund for damage to agriculture, which will cause frost on 7 and 8 April, for the regions of the North but not only. We must bypass or somehow have Europe's authorization, but I trust that the government can obtain it and allocate resources. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u6	She is registered to speak Senator Testor. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u7	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, with the decree-law we are preparing to convert, we are finally leaving behind the weird ways applied during the time of the so-called ristori decrees. Finally, Parliament has regained a central role in the legislative process. The measure provides the deviation from 32 billion euros, voted in January by Parliament, to meet the needs of the continuation of the pandemic beyond the Christmas period and compensate for the productive activities damaged in December and January. Of course, we are now in May and we have not yet returned to normality, nor to the total reopening of our activities, and this has forced us to further deviate from the budget for an additional EUR 40 billion that will be used for the next support-a decree. We are aware that the best support we can give is to bring the country back to normal as soon as possible. The General Son's effort to proceed quickly in the vaccination campaign is certainly the right way to allow reopenings and thus to restart Italy in a speedy way towards economic recovery. Of course, the damage that the economic sector has had is considerable, especially with reference to the tourism, catering, fashion, fair, wedding, gyms, swimming pools, cinemas, parks and discos. Surely it would take a mountain of money to compensate for the damage. Restorations are laughing; they can be quantified with the collection of a day of a restaurant and it is little. I would like to talk about the mountain, which is a topic dear to me for my origins and for my belonging to a beautiful territory, which, precisely because of its morphological characteristic, sees economic activities based almost exclusively on tourism, while the remaining ones enjoy, with relapse, the benefits that this sector brings. I don't remember a winter so nervous since I was a child, but above all I don't remember a silence as deafening as what the past winter season has reserved for mountain resorts. Someone at first tried to trivialize the lack of winter season by saying: it's just a skiing. The wrong thing could not be said because those living in the mountains know that the work of a winter season means, in other words, being able to shop, pay for heating, university fees, house rent and so on. I mean, it means living. Based on the data of the Italian Observatory for Mountain Tourism, in winter 2018-2019 the sector, in only 61 main Italian ski resorts, reported a turnover of 10,409 million euros. Workers in the sector are estimated at about 75,000. Therefore, the turnover lost was really large, especially for those activities (skiing facilities, ski instructors, rental of winter equipment) that unfortunately have their take only in the winter months. In addition to non-payment or salary, fixed, often high, costs must be taken into account. We consider that the temperatures below zero involve the need to keep the heating on at least 10 degrees even in the closed structures, so as not to incur the freezing of the water pipes, with damage to the entire system. This also applies to structures such as swimming pools, also present in the mountains, which must not only be emptied and closed, but maintained at a certain temperature. The costs are therefore high. Closed and seasonal structures without work until the summer season: this is what is happening. The news of the premier Dragons of a national green pass gives us great hope and above all puts us on par with our European competitors. At least there will be no preferential lanes to foreign locations, so the Italian tourist product can help attract foreign tourists. This message of trust gives relief to a sector that needs to be able to schedule the restart and be sure to make at least a good summer season. Since its birth, this new Government has begun well, with the establishment of the Ministry of Tourism, and I want to thank Minister Garavaglia for the commitment and attention it shows for the different specificities of tourism that Italy offers. [[Applause]] Article 2 of the Decree supports is entirely dedicated to measures to support municipalities with a mountain vocation belonging to ski resorts, with a fund of 700 million thus distributed: 430 million for ski lifts, 40 million for ski instructors and ski schools and the remaining 230 will be divided between the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano and intended for tourist enterprises operating in the ski resorts. An agenda has also been approved in the Commission to increase the fund by 100 million in the next Decree on Support bis. Thanks also to the amendments of the League, a series of immediate and concrete measures have been introduced to give oxygen to our traders, to give real help to the groups most affected by the crisis: the stop to the payment of the IMU payment in June for the beneficiaries of the restaurant; the suspension of the payment of the TOSAP and COSAP; the exemption of the payment of the RAI fee for bars, pubs and restaurants; the postponement to 30 September of the payment of the IRAP by the companies. All this, however, is obviously not enough, it is not enough, and that is why we are working to ensure that further actions and measures in favour of companies are provided for in the next aid decree. Further non-refundable contributions are needed in favour of holders of VAT numbers and companies that have suffered losses due to the pandemic. Measures are needed to bear the fixed costs borne by the companies, the extension of the tax credit on rental fees on properties of non-housing use and farm rent. It is necessary to cover the fixed share of electricity bills; it is necessary to provide liquidity to companies and therefore measures are needed to support the provision of credit to small and medium-sized enterprises, thus extending until 31 December the expiry of the State guarantee scheme on loans. Appropriate resources must be allocated to local authorities to reduce Tari's payment by companies. The allowance for seasonal workers in various sectors (agriculture, tourism and entertainment) should be extended. This crisis has brought with it many problems, there are unfortunately already almost one million jobs lost and there is still the blockage of redundancies. To restart the economy means to regenerate jobs, to give security to families who at this time, in addition to the economic factor, have had to cope with the difficulties arising from the restrictions, with harmful repercussions also from the psychological aspect. Let's think about the difficulties that children and adolescents have had to adapt to, which have been many: the closure of schools, the suspension of sports, social and recreational activities, the hours spent in front of the PC, which have given them the vision of a society made of isolation, which has certainly created great hardships also for many of our young people who have to face the world of work and find themselves distrusted. We have a duty to put in place all the actions that preserve the quality of our lives. We have a duty to thank those who have been at the forefront since the beginning of the pandemic, and I am referring to the doctors, health workers who are still engaged in the vaccination campaign and the many volunteers. This effort will allow us to share and see our squares, public establishments and tourist resorts back to life. In these days there have finally been the first reopenings of bars and restaurants, for now only outdoors, which for activities in some places, such as mountain ones, is very difficult, given the temperatures, therefore the objective remains to give the possibility to work safely to those who are still stationary and on this we must commit ourselves. The voice of the League, which within the Government works to give a glimmer of light after this difficult period, makes us confident that the goals we have set ourselves can and should be achieved for a strong economic recovery, which contributes to the homogeneous well-being of the country without leaving anyone behind and always keeping our eyes on the protection of health. Someone called the pandemic a war against an invisible enemy. I remember when I was a child my grandmother told me all the difficulties she had faced during the war, including the fear, hunger and terror of losing her loved ones. From them, from our grandparents, we should take an example, not give up and face the difficulties with determination and with the courage to expose ourselves personally to find the best solutions. That's why I'm proud of Matteo Salvini's choice to be part of the government because he wants to put his face on it and try to bring the right solutions, assuming responsibility for it, isn't something for everyone. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u8	She's enlisted to speak Senator Gaudiano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u9	Mr President, Senators, the decree-law supports that we are about to convert into law continues the path begun in March 2020 with the so-called decree cure Italy; a path never interrupted and made of economic aid and emergency measures, indispensable to face the emergency due to the pandemic. The resources put in place with the measure to our examination amount to 32 billion euros and are the result of the budgetary deviation voted in January with the Government Conte- bis, which was strongly wanted by the Movimento 5 Stars. From the very beginning, the Movimento 5 Stars fought firmly to obtain resources from Europe and to ensure that they were used in the best possible way. We realize that what we have done is not enough and we are aware of the extreme difficulties that we are all facing, but we are convinced that it is still so much that we will be able to achieve. We have always been close to citizens, families and entrepreneurs because we were born from the bottom of civil society, as a driving force for change and that change we have etched into our DNA. From the Italian squares we shouted that no one should remain behind; we can be proud to say that there is not only a slogan left, but that it is the constant course of our choices in Parliament. The emergency has allowed unprecedented interventions to be made in giving oxygen to our economy, put to the test by the pandemic, and in giving material comfort to the people in difficulty. It also made it possible to reconsider priorities and make bold choices to put liquidity and support businesses and households. It is certainly not a question of welfareism, but an indispensable support to strengthen the organic defences of our society which is facing the deepest crisis of our times. Measures such as the income of citizenship that, for example, would have been unthinkable only a few years ago, are today not only confirmed by the Government Dragons, but implemented with the decree-law supports. If today the system holds, it is also due to the income of citizenship, which has allowed to support thousands of families in difficulty. This is proof of the continuity of the choices of the current Executive with the previous one, which has confirmed also the assignments of collaboration of the navigators until 31 December 2021, in order to guarantee the continuity of the activities of technical assistance in the centers for the job. With regard to grants, the decision to abandon the classification for the Ateco Code is an awareness of the possibility of improving past measures. We have chosen the criterion of the decrease in turnover recorded in 2020 compared to 2019, without limitation to professional categories, with a progressive contribution to lost funds that is the smaller the company, in the awareness that medium and small enterprises are the most at risk at this time. In order to safeguard the activities most affected by the restrictions adopted to contain contagions, additional economic measures have been envisaged; for example, new funds have been set up to support winter tourism and allowances have been provided for seasonal workers, tourist workers and spa workers and also for entertainment and sport workers who, due to the pandemic, have ceased and suspended their activity. In addition, as a member of the parliamentary committee for the general direction and supervision of broadcasting services, I am very pleased with the Commission's approval of amendment 6.49, which I signed first. This modification proposal will certainly allow you to exempt from payment of the special RAI fee [[Applause]] accommodation activities such as hotels, holiday homes, bed and breakfasts, holiday villages and campsites, as well as bars and all public or public places where drinks are administered and consumed, to which all third sector entities are added. For those who had already paid the special fee, a tax credit to be used in compensation corresponding to the amount paid was provided. For a long time I have personally dealt with the topic of the RAI canon and in this regard I have already presented in 2019 a bill to modify its discipline. In addition, following the pandemic and the serious losses suffered by the activities paying the special fee, I also submitted a written question to the Ministry of Economic Development to deal with the problem. Today, thanks to the decree-law supports, we can feel satisfied. I am convinced that this measure is a concrete aid for these activities; every small step is a step towards recovery, the road is long, but we can assure you that we will not stop. Together, with the political responsibility that holds us firmly to this Commission, I am convinced that we will be able to get out of the emergency. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u10	Senator Boldrini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u11	Mr President, today we are finally about to convert the decree-law support into law, from which the government's intention to support, through the various articles, a country that is still fighting against the pandemic, even if the data of the contagions seem gradually to be comforting compared to the past months. The effect is certainly due to the vaccination campaign that is encouraging, also because they are finally coming in more doses of vaccine. On this point I should like to add the fact that President Biden has finally asked to suspend the patents for vaccines, and I believe that this is very important for us too. [[Applause]] and for the other countries that are struggling. Mr President, I appeal to our Italian compatriots: I am thinking of that couple who went to adopt a child in India, so that we can do everything possible to get them back to Italy. You fear for your health, so I make this request first of all. [[Applause]] Of course, I am obliged, and I do so with great will, to thank my colleagues Missa and Toffanin, as well as the Presidents D'Alfonso and Pesco for this very important marathon - let us call it because it really has been - to complete the examination of the measure under discussion. With Parliament's listening - I repeat this once again - another 770 million have been added to the decree-law support. It was a huge job and I would like to express my thanks for what has been done, because I understand that in the midst of all these amendments it will have been very difficult, but once again Parliament has said itss. The PD Group in the 6th Commission has given a tremendous boost to many points, to talk to you about which I would waste most of my time, but my colleagues will do so by being more relevant to their subjects. As always, I would like to focus on the subject of health care, which our Group has been working on in an amending phase on three important aspects, which I had already announced and on which we have worked: broadening the audience of vaccine workers, supporting students at a psychological level and strengthening the role of professionals who are fighting against Covid in this year and a half. I had already tabled amendments on the extension of the vaccination programme, but I was very pleased to see that other health professions have been added to the decree-law which can vaccinate. This has done me a great deal of pleasure, because I had already told Minister Hope in all the hearings that it was right to expand the audience of vaccine workers. The temporary extension of the administration of vaccines to pharmacies was very important. In this regard, however, Commissioner Figlio had said in an audition that we should have speeded up vaccination as much as possible (which I agree with), obviously he said that the places also had to be increased and he had also talked about the subscales. Mr De Petris and I had tabled an amendment to extend the administration to the parapharmacies and I was very sorry that this suggestion was not heard. I think it would be appropriate to extend once and for all the possibility of vaccination to those who can and in places where this can be done, in order to avoid always incurring in all those struggles between professionals that do not have to be. [[Applause]] So let's do this once and for all, I think it's very important. Another thing on which we have focused, which has passed the second examination of the Budget Commission and the Finance Commission, is an amendment that I am now very dear, which envisages changing the role of technician to socio-sanitary of social workers and health workers, so that they finally carry out their activities, already provided for by a law. I hope that this House, since my amendment has passed through and is linked to an amendment by my colleague Mr Guidolin, will give these thousands of professionals the opportunity to finally see their request recognized. [[Applause]] I think that this House will also have to take charge of this and that it will have to be responsible for what might happen. I think that it would be appropriate for this amendment to be adopted, because temporality in this case does not make sense. If these people finally play their part, they must do so forever and not only in relation to the Covid emergency; this is another important fact. Another thing that I think is fundamental and another thread that we've definitely committed to is psychological support. There is no point in saying that, colleagues. All over the world, in all hearings, in the Childhood Commission and in the Health Commission, it has become clear that there is a huge problem that concerns the psychological standing of our children, but also of all citizens and professionals. I would therefore like to thank our leader, Simona Malpezzi, for having tabled an amendment which was followed by an extremely important agenda, which calls for resources to be allocated to psychological support in the next decree-law, which will shortly reach the Council of Ministers. We must see this, as we have seen in the amendments for vaccine workers, and we will see it in the next support decree. This is another very important thing; it is useless for me to tell you how great is the discomfort and psychological malaise that children, teenagers and consequently their families are putting up with. I heard earlier in the Parliamentary Committee on Childhood and Adolescence that there are incredible cases of young people who even use drugs to spend this time, which is unfortunately a little grateful for everyone, but especially for our young people. I believe that this, together with the approval of the institution of the primary care psychologist (another proposal for a law incardinated in the Health Commission), can be an important impulse to support our citizens, also to strengthen the health of the territory. The only possible answer in terms of adequacy is the strengthening of local medicine, and that is what we find in the PNRR mission 6, which we are shortly waiting for the approval of the European Commission and the drafting of concrete projects to be shared with all the actors concerned, first and foremost with Parliament. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u12	Senator Ronzulli is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u13	Mr President, this decree-law is a real watershed that marks the difference not only between two governments, but also between opposing ways of responding to the crisis. We went from chasing the effects of Covid to finally ruling them. This government has marked that change of pace that we were asking for and that was necessary to get the country out of the pandemic. I do not want to dwell on the economic aspects of which my colleagues have spoken a great deal, but on the two aspects of health which I am particularly pleased with. Supporting means catching up on lost time, I'd like to say wasted on lack of care. The Covid not only caused 122,000 direct victims, but killed women and men who had other pathologies and who could not cure themselves. Today we make up for a dangerous mistake. Through an amendment, we called for cancer patients in follow-up to be included among vulnerable groups. [[Applause]] We're talking about people who have been diagnosed with cancer and who have been dealing with treatments to try to eliminate the disease in the previous five years. Thanks to this change, the patients most exposed to the risk of contracting the Covid will be able to carry out the vaccine in the same way and the same time with which all other people considered fragile can access it. [[Applause]] Up to now, in fact, these people, despite their obvious fragility, had no priority. For this reason I consider the opinion of the Government and the decision of the majority to include this amendment in the decree a gesture of great attention to them. The same can be said of another amendment absorbed by the decree-law, thanks to which also the voluntary nurses of the Red Cross, the so-called crucirosses, known and loved throughout Italy, can inoculate vaccines against the Covid. Having them enabled to administer the vaccine is an act of common sense, rationality, a gesture of consideration towards 2,700 generous women, but above all a further push for the vaccination campaign. [[Applause]] As indicated by the Red Cross, which celebrates its feast on Saturday, the crucirosses are formed through a course of two years, at the end of which they can also make injections in the muscles in the presence of the doctor. This staff, already engaged at the vaccine hubs, will contribute to the choral effort that Italy is making in all its joints to achieve the immunity of flock that will finally make us free. [[Applause]] This is an ambitious but achievable objective. We are still far from having the country that Italians ask us, what companies need to prosper or at least to return to growth: a safe Italy that guarantees everyone health and well-being. Measures like the one we are discussing today, containing these positive measures, are the reason why we wanted to make our contribution to the Dragon Government and we want to continue to give it. An efficient vaccination plan that works and proceeds in a swift manner and that, thanks also to the changes introduced in this decree-law, will run even faster is the best response to psychological terrorism exercised by the no vax, who do not understand that vaccines are the solution to the Covid and not the cause. [[Applause]] It is the best answer to those who, refusing to immunize themselves, put at risk not only their lives, but above all that of others; it is the best answer of science to ignorance. These are the many answers that we are giving to the country, to all Italians, to families, to businesses, to workers who want to leave and who, in order to do so, need health security to be guaranteed. We are doing so and with this decree, as amended here in the Senate, the way back to normal has shortened and has become less crooked. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u14	Senator Ferrero is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u15	Mr President, this first important measure is beginning to go in the right direction. It is the first important measure of this Government, which issued a decree-law immediately enforceable and the Senate and the senators all tried to give their improving contribution. I would therefore like to thank the two rapporteurs, Senators Roberta Toffanin and Daniele Manca, for their mediation work in order to reach an agreement between the majority and minority forces. I would like to thank the Presidents of the two Commissions, Pesco and D'Alfonso, who - let us be honest - have managed a budget law in a week. I also thank all the offices that have worked to lay off a very heavy measure. However, a point of order must be made about the haste that has never occurred in this measure. It is right to do river meetings in excess to get to the agreement and it is right to work non-stop, but it is wrong not to have a few more hours to deepen and not have time to involve colleagues in the choices. It is wrong not to have the texts available and to proceed with the votes. It is wrong, colleagues, always to be reduced to working at night. [[Applause]] I have always argued - and I repeat this here in this House - that the work done in a hurry and at night risks being spoiled by mistakes. We are not talking, then, about some attempts to propose unagreed amendments; perhaps it is a mistake, but I wonder if it is not an unfairness. Anyway, let's keep it that way and try not to do anything wrong. It was all very tiring, but in the end we found a synthesis. I remember that the first decree supports has developed on a deviation of 32 billion euros, still at the head of the old government. The first deviation, far more full-bodied, from 40 billion, of this new Government will go to finance the second decree supports, which will see the light in the next few days. Well, in full agreement between the Groups, we have identified some onerous issues, to be managed with common amendments, and others very onerous and impossible to deal with in the first decree support, but important and to be referred to the decree support- bis, for which we have therefore agreed an agenda. With regard to the first article, on the lost fund, we have managed to overcome the intricate and inefficient logic of the Ateco codes, supporting, albeit within the limits of the initial allocation, all activities that have suffered a loss of turnover of more than 30%. In this respect, with an amendment of ours, it has been established that the non-refundable contribution is impeccable. The agenda also called for the Government's commitment to provide for further non-refundable contributions in the next ristori decree. A commitment was also requested with particular regard to fixed costs, rents on properties for non-housing use, farm rents and the fixed share of electricity bills. With regard to rentals, it was started in this measure, with our amendments and other Groups, to give a first signal of attention to the owners of properties for residential use (while for commercial ones it is referred to the decree supports- bis), to exempt them from payment of the Irpef on rents not received. It has also acted to block evictions, at least those initiated before the pandemic. On this I must say that I have found that there is a lack of clarity, to the limit of unfairness as I said before, of certain groups which are clearly politically opposed. We have also acted in a number of other areas. The mountain is a subject that I particularly care about, such as Piedmontese, and of which my colleague Mr Testor has already spoken well. With an excellent work of Minister Garavaglia in the State-Regions Conference, we have established in this measure the criteria of parting, with the commitment on the decree support- bis to increase the fund dedicated to the mountain of 100 million euros. There was action on the TOSAP and COSAP exemption for activities forced to close, referring to the decree support- bis, with a commitment of the Government, the exemption of Tari's payment for activities that have been closed. We have tabled amendments on measures for the thermal sector and sport. In particular, all the groups in agreement have decided to channel an additional €50 million to support amateur sports clubs, left out of the previous measures. The League has also shown special attention to disability, with the tireless work of Minister Erika Stefani, and, as Mr Augussori pointed out yesterday, important amendments have been tabled. I am referring to the finalization of the Disability Fund, to the pro blind resources and to the battle on which Senator Salvini, along with all of us in the League, has so much aimed for the recognition of sign language. Mr President, this is only part of the measures we have taken. In conclusion, in this measure, with the resources available, we have tried, as far as possible, to support our economy, our activities forced to shut down, in the knowledge that the best support is to give our activities the opportunity to work, to reopen, to return to normality, thus overcoming the logic of curfew and closures. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u16	Senator Puglia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor in this House to express my satisfaction with a number of measures that we have managed to introduce into this decree of support. The Movimento 5 Stars has always operated, in this period of pandemic, in a very rational way on the one hand, and in a very responsible way on the other. A very difficult time, in which we know very well that many economic activities have lost a lot of hours of work. We therefore had to intervene, especially in the initial period, in an emerging way; we tried to speed up the administrative processes in a country where, in reality, all the IT administrative processes were almost in the wild. Well, let's speed it up. In relation to this measure we express great satisfaction - especially as far as I am concerned - with the great battle that we have fought since the last parliamentary term, which we have always done and which we will continue to do, in favour of small and medium-sized enterprises, the backbone of the Italian economy. About this, there are also Italian historical-cultural activities, for example that of the market trade, of streetwalkers. We are very pleased to have supported the duration and extension of the parking concessions for the exercise of trade in public areas, precisely in order to ensure the continuity of the activity in support of this sector in the current emerging framework. Another important goal that has been achieved, of which we are very happy, is to have expanded and therefore also supported the fund for trade fairs. On this, however, there is also a problem of bureaucracy at the level of local authorities, and I am also referring to the regions. What I can do is then turn a sort of moral suasion to those who govern the territories, in order to make the possibilities to operate much faster, also because we now have the certainty that in open places the virus moves much less quickly. It would therefore be appropriate, with all security, to reopen these places as well. There are already protocols that have been provided by INAIL (National Labour Accident Insurance Institute), which has long been working on similar cases for other types of virus-related issues. Let's remember that for the vastness and articulation of the exhibition system, Italy is the fourth country in the world after China, the United States and Germany, so there has been a significant reduction in turnover and we cannot allow it. It is a strategic sector in which, I repeat, we are fourth in the world, after China, the United States and Germany, big countries after which we are also there. I shall not dwell on everything that has been introduced with the decree supporting our examination. I remember that we pushed for an immediate support decree to be made. I just wanted to focus on a few subjects. One thing that comes to mind, for example, is that of work and social security, an area in which I have always committed my energies in order to increase not only my professionalism, but also my curiosity. In the support decree, the fund's budget for 2021 for the exemption of contributions from self-employed and professional workers is increased by 1.5 billion. Once again we have kept in mind the small and medium-sized enterprise, of which we know very well the suffering of this period. Another peculiarity that gives a breath of breath is the reduction of the expenditure of electrical consumption for non-domestic use, precisely in favor of the connected electric utilities in low voltage. Again we think of small and medium-sized enterprises. There is another measure of a general nature that was introduced on a strong push of the Movimento 5 Stars, which shared it with the other political forces. This shows that we are in the government too. It was precisely the desire to draw up another set of measures in the Decree-A. We remind you of the zero and exemption of the waste tax (Tari). We will provide the municipalities with the necessary funds so that economic activities can also clear this tax that in this period of pandemic, with the closures, is really unfair. Another thing on which I think it would be appropriate to pay some attention is the exemption from the RAI fee. For this I thank my colleague Felicia Gaudiano and my colleague Sergio Vaccaro, who strongly wanted this exemption from the RAI canon in favour of accommodation facilities and the administration and consumption of drinks. Once again we intervene for small and medium-sized enterprises. Another particularity that we have always supported with energy, strength and also vision, always in favour of small and medium-sized enterprises, is the exemption from the fee for the occupation of public soil which, in this period of pandemic, with the obligation of closures, really turns out to be an unbearably unjust tax. Another theme is the startups, so I must highlight the great commitment of Movimento, which always has at heart the development of the entrepreneurial capacity of the individual in order to bring out the potential that can contribute to the progress of our country. For this reason, the non-refund contribution of up to EUR 1,000 was introduced to corporate income holders who activated the VAT number from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018 and whose business activity, based on the findings of the register of companies held by the chambers of commerce, began in 2019, in a very special period. Mr President, we must be quick to approve and I believe that we have put all our efforts into it. I thank, therefore, all the colleagues of the Commissions who have had the ability to interact with minorities in order to bring the measure to the country quickly, but we remember to be as quick with the decree support- bis because there are so many other small and medium-sized enterprises that are suffering and need our support. [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u18	Senator Garnero Santanchè is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are here once again talking about support, relief and aid. I remember what the government said during the discussion on the deviation of so many billions: finally something would be done for businesses. This does not seem to us from the content of the decree-law supports. Today we would have liked to know from the government a timetable on openings in our nation. We would have liked yesterday to have accepted our amendment on curfew, a measure that has no ratio and no scientific evidence. On the other hand, I would like to point out that, once again, our amendment has been rejected. We are very concerned, because the resources that are made available, if not for some of the amendments tabled by the Fratelli d'Italia Group, which have been accepted - for this we thank you - will be the subject of yet another distribution in rain, which will certainly not serve either to revive our economy, or to increase the consumption of Italians. It would really have been possible to help our businesses by telling them when they could have opened up. Today in the tourism sector we suffer competition from other countries, such as Greece or Spain, which compared to us are far ahead in bookings, precisely because the government has failed in communication, when it said that there would be curfew at 22 o'clock, until 31 July. Colleagues, who do you think could book a holiday in our country, knowing that at 10:00 a.m. it has to be locked in the house or in the hotel? Communication is important! I can't understand how you're not worried about the job, the workers and the job loss that's gonna happen, one second after the end of the layoffs. You're a merchant's ear! Dragons and the Government of the Best are moving forward in the same way as the Count Government and, if I may, even worse. To get to the point, having little time available, I just want to give two examples. In Article 1, the contribution to enterprises is calculated on the difference between 2019 turnover compared to 2020, but one month. Do you really think of helping businesses by giving support on a month's turnover? In life I am an entrepreneur, but we look at the one-year turnover trend. I would use an adjective, which seems to me the only appropriate one: it is shameful! Article 38 provides that the fair system, of which Italy has made an excellence, will be allocated 150 million euros. I remember that part of this majority had allocated 460 million euros for wheelchairs, which today lie in warehouses. How do you feel when you meet traders, craftsmen and entrepreneurs? How can you not lower your eyes after giving what you might call a begging or a tip? Support for the agricultural sector is also allocated EUR 150 million and I could continue for a long time, citing many articles that leave us speechless. Colleagues, continue to think that jobs are created by decree, but the only people who can create jobs are companies. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I conclude by saying that the only light that is seen in this decree-law supports is that you recognise your mistake with regard to vaccines, because it goes from EUR 400 million to EUR 2 800 million. You realized that the money you had made available for vaccines was a misery: better late than never. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u20	He's enlisted to speak Senator Beginini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u21	Mr President, with this measure we come to respond further to the many needs that families and businesses have expressed in relation to the restrictions that we have been forced to implement because of the pandemic. All of us, however, hope that this decree-law and the next one already instructed are now among the last extraordinary and emergent measures, which lead to implementing measures with considerable resources to give extraordinary support and aid. This is because the hope is that the implementation of the vaccination plan can lead to a progressive normality also our Country, thus allowing the State to start the implementation of the important investments previewed from the National Plan of recovery and resilience and from the complementary fund, in such a way that we can finally see increase also in our Country the occupation, as well as the Country itself in all its components. Let me say a word about employment and work, Mr President, in relation to the recent news of recent days. I would like to express, on behalf of myself and the PD Group, my condolences for the recent deaths at work. These deaths must be a constant reminder to invest and continuously monitor work security measures. [[Applause]] These deaths, which seem to emerge from a constant darkness, despite dramatic data, must make us think because, President, Luana D'Orazio died as in a mill of the nineteenth century and Christian Martinelli died as in a mill of the twentieth century. Dramatic facts such as these must shake us, but they must also lead us to ensure that the important investments that the State will make in the coming months and in the coming years put the issue of safety at work first. At the same time, checks must be implemented in companies so that these dramatic events do not happen again. Coming to the decree-law, President, Parliament played a limited role in the resources available; however, it played a significant role in the determination of measures and measures. Thanks to the commitment of the PD Group, we are witnessing an important reduction in fixed costs, especially for public establishments and tourism operators. In this way, many requests from stakeholders have been heeded. We know that this must still be the way forward with the use of the further deviation already decided by Parliament of 40 billion, which will see the partial use of those resources in the measure expected by the Government to launch. In addition to these measures, on the initiative of Parliament - which was clear on this, also on the agenda approved in the Commission - the Government will have to pay particular attention to the municipalities, which are a vital cell for our country because they have been and are protagonists in helping families and businesses. I believe that we will have to go in the direction of completely covering, at least with 600 million euros, the discovery that the municipalities will register on Tari, because if we want to reduce as a fixed cost for companies a tax such as that on waste we will have to guarantee to the municipality the full coverage of the resources, otherwise the mechanism will see to discharge to the families this tariff, and this is obviously not acceptable. There is also a request to implement of 100 million euros the fund for the mountain, provided for in article 2 of the decree-law in approval; there is, then, an important measure linked to food solidarity. We have seen how well it worked in the past months of last year the bonus expense that has been recognized to needy families through the municipalities. This measure must not only be implemented, but must be made more flexible, leaving to the municipalities the resources necessary to give answers on the needs of spending, but also on the cover of bills or rents for those families that the municipalities themselves know to be in conditions of difficulty. The municipalities are the watchman on the territory on behalf of the State. They know their citizens, they know the needs they have and, therefore, they are the best bodies in the state, entitled to indicate where to allocate the resources. The appeal I make to the Government, therefore, is not only to allocate the resources to cover these measures for the municipalities, but also to make the use of these resources flexible according to the capacities that each municipality knows how to put in place to recognize the needs of families and businesses. Mr President, the municipalities have been at the forefront of the pandemic management. They have been essential and continue to be essential in the implementation of the vaccination plan, because they have been able to put in place and coordinate the volunteers who assist the numerous vaccination centres and health workers. They will be the protagonists of the restart with the investments previewed from the PNRR. A pact is needed, I ask the Government: a pact between the State and the Municipalities for the reasons I have indicated, for the role that the Municipalities play. It will be necessary for the Government to entrust responsibilities and resources, but also adequate autonomy to the municipalities, for better responses to families and businesses. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u22	He's enlisted to speak Senator Ferro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I should like to thank the rapporteurs, Senator Toffanin and Senator Misses, for the excellent work they have done, for their synthesis and attention to the work of the Commission, the two Presidents of the Commission, Senators Pesco and D'Alfonso, and also for the whole structure that has supported us - and endured - at these stages. [[Applause]] If I may say so, Mr President, the only thing I did not like is the rite of night, because, with a little planning and organization, you can organize the work well. Personally, I find it difficult at night to stay awake and, for this reason, I hope for the future that there will be no night. Beyond this, coming to the decree support, the most important point, as the colleagues who have spoken and how they will do those who will intervene even after me, are not the individual measures, but that agenda which, as my Parent Company said, is booking on the decree support- bis. With this agenda we commit the Government not to evaluate, but on some precise, precise and defined actions that have not found space, given the narrowness of the economic margins, in this first decree. [[Applause]] Basically, it is a decree of support, in the sense that we support because we want our companies to work, we want our small and medium-sized entrepreneurs to work and we want to make the country return to normal quickly, because we can no longer wait. In this sense, our party is pursuing the idea of a moderate reopening, but moving the curfew bar at 23. That reopens the field of wedding, that reopens congresses and fairs, that reopens the pools and shopping malls in tranquility. They are all sectors that have been stationary for a year and a half and support, however important it may be, certainly does not solve the problems. So, you have to breathe and help, give a breath of oxygen, to allow the reopening to begin again. You see, ladies and gentlemen, it cannot be reopened and there is no point in reopening if we do not leave. Our production system is in difficulty, as the data is testifying, and we need innovative functions. Who has new ideas is the time for you to take them out and make them available to the country. Our party, at the appeal of the President of the Republic to abandon the shirts of its team and to wear the shirt of the National team, responded immediately, without delay, because here is at stake the country. This isn't about being fans of a team, it's about being fans of our national team. [[Applause]] This is the spirit that has characterized us, that distinguishes us and will distinguish us. President Draghi is a guarantee for us, it is a guarantee that we cannot afford to waste. Therefore, legitimate remarks and criticisms must also return to an authoritativeness which in President Draghi finds its highest expression. We have shown this: the first PNRR was sent to us basically at home saying that it was little more than scrap paper. And after the first PNRR, which is an order, the first real provision of the Draghi Government is the one under consideration. Here we see the change of pace and I do not agree with what my colleague Garnero Santanchè said earlier. There's a change of pace on the vaccines. [[Applause]] We have passed from day to night and I believe that there is no need to say it, because it is before everyone's eyes. We're making up for lost time unnecessarily. Let's forget the polemics about initiatives of Count I and II governments, which leave the time they find. Mr President, I would like to highlight some of the issues that we can describe as the choice of Forza Italia. The attention to art cities and ancient villages is important, because they are the most penalized in the tourist sector and are still: I refer to important cities such as Rome, Florence, Venice, Verona and many other cities that - I repeat - are still, because tourists do not arrive. I often repeat that, alongside a latent economic crisis, there is a social crisis that can frighten us. I draw the Government's attention to two very serious problems that are approaching. Gentlemen of the Government, let us not neglect the Alitalia problem, because it risks getting on our backs from evening to morning, if we are not careful and we do not use the authority of President Draghi to change the attitude of the European Commission that is penalising us seriously. This is the last chance to modernise the country. We are absolutely convinced that these interventions, in the organic vision of the decrees support and support bis, will help companies (especially small and medium-sized ones), families and the weakest groups. As Senator Ronzulli reminded us, thanks to the Government we managed to make the cancer patients in follow-up considered as a priority class in vaccination. [[Applause]] It cost nothing, but this was made possible thanks to our sensitivity. We've entered new forces. Voluntary crucirosins do not cost anything and carry out the duties of health assistants and nurses in wartime, but they could not - it is not known by decision of what strange bureaucrat - do the inoculations. [[Applause]] We have introduced 2,800 professional nurses, estimated from all over the country - the so-called sisters of the Red Cross - who will be able to vaccinate, giving support and collaboration. Finally, I would like to refer to another subject. To help businesses there is a very simple system and I cannot understand why some bureaucrats - as Senator Mallegni said yesterday, and Senator Pagano reminded us - make political choices. It is not up to the bureaucrats to make political choices: we take them here and they must transfer them to concrete acts. To help businesses just consider the credit rating pre-Covid. Is it possible that we cannot introduce a rule that obliges banks to consider corporate ratings before Covid and not after the pandemic, which is definitely worsening? [[Applause]] It doesn't cost anything and I don't understand why it's not done. President Draghi spoke of good debt; I want to talk about good bureaucracy, the one that has to help us get the country out of this crisis situation. [[Applause]] Mr President, this majority has given an excellent demonstration of capacity. We have worked for the real interest of the country and I am truly satisfied. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u24	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bruzzone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u25	Mr President, I would like to thank the two Undersecretaries who are here representing the Government and listen to this debate on a measure that is undoubtedly important, and I would like to say that it is very important, as will be the Decree on Support-A. The League has contributed during the work carried out in the Commission not only in terms of participation and determination, but also and above all of content and the important improvement that has been brought within the measure. We are here to give important signals to the country and above all to highlight the coherence of our commitment, which goes in the direction of the world of work, business and the economy, which constitutes an important backbone of our country and which deserves to be fully protected in this phase of recovery. [[Applause]] The results that the League has brought home in terms of improvement thanks to the important work done by colleagues and colleagues of the Budget Committee lead us to say that we could almost put a subtitle to this measure, because, thanks to the contribution of the League, we see the difference today. [[Applause. Comments]] I have heard a very significant comment, but to the colleagues of Brothers of Italy, with whom we manage many important realities of our country well, I would like to say that when Senator Garnero Santanchè said that it was better the Count II than the current Government, only the few colleagues who make the comments today, that is those of the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause]] I certainly do not want to go in a polemical direction, because my speech has a constructive logic and is aimed at pointing out some aspects that we of the League were very keen on. I am referring to the companies and matches of the IMU, the RAI fee, the separate workers, the TOSAP and the aid to the weakest and the enterprises. We've put a lot of money into this and you can see the difference. From Genoese and from Liguria I must address an infinite thank you, on behalf of those who live in that reality, in my Region, to Matteo Salvini, because the approval of amendment 40.0.9 - I would like to quote it - goes in continuity with what the League has done for Genoa in the face of the catastrophe and misfortune of the Morandi bridge, continuing to define some important works in that area, starting - I want to say it and, as we say in Genoa, I do it with a little'magón inta gôa - from the construction of the memorial, under the former pile 9 on the right bank of Polcevera, because that was a tragedy that all of us Italians, we Ligurians and we Genoese, will never forget. [[Applause]] When next August 14th the mayor of Genoa will have the opportunity to lay the first stone for the memorial under the former pile 9 of the former Morandi bridge, it will be not only a moment of emotion, but, thanks to the approval of this measure and the amendment Salvini, also a strong and important sign for the future of that city, which will never forget what happened. [[Applause]] Believe me, there will be many who will never forget the Genoa model: I like to talk about model Lega Genova, because with the Undersecretary of that time, with the vice minister Rixi, with Matteo Salvini and with the mayor Bucci we were in the front line. That model Genoa still today must call all of us to overcome the constraints, the laces and the concrete impossibility to do the great works because of this code of contracts that must be reformed, not to say cancelled and exceeded. [[Applause]] I do not want to go too far, but, by associating myself with the thanks to Minister Garavaglia, I remember that that Region, which is important and makes tourism one of the main points of its economy, deserves to be treated in a different way from others. Last Sunday - I am a direct witness - to travel 25 kilometers of highway, without accidents and without blocks, only for the work in progress, I took five hours and a quarter, going back towards the city of Genoa. It is not conceivable to go on like this: we must eradicate and completely erase those who still adopt the policy of no and still want to bring the policy of blocking and not doing. We of the League are committed and we are for the Grunda and to curb those who still politically do not want to do these great works. [[Applause]] We pass from there and we will fight all the way for the policy of doing and not for once to cancel the development of the country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u26	Senator Bruzzone, I also had the experience around Genoa that you remembered.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u27	Senator Castellone is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to read the letter from a doctor from 118. [[Comments]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u29	The Presidency will take care of this, and I would ask you to address it, thank you. They weren't overreacting. Let my colleague intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u30	Please, Senator Castellone. CASTELLONE (M5S). I read a doctor's letter from 118: during the pandemic only we of 118 entered the homes of the sick people of Covid. Yet, no one had told us how to proceed. We were waiting for hours in the ambulance outside the E.R., until the oxygen from the rescue vehicle ran out. We dressed from six to eight times a day, learning how to do it by watching Spallanzani videos. We self-taxed to buy soap and paper towels. We entered the homes of lonely elderly people, who asked us to prepare their good clothes to go to the hospital. We collected their personal effects in a bag, labeled everything by their name and learned to transcribe phone numbers on reports. We closed their houses, took the keys. We saw thousands of people just before they died. It was humanly touching, beautiful and terrible at the same time. Yet for us there is no psychological support service. I love my job, but I think I'll leave as soon as I have the chance, as many of my colleagues have already done. It is heavy work, with massacred shifts and lower levels of remuneration than those of other doctors, which does not offer any protection, as many have done when we got Covid's disease and we were not entitled to the accident or disease. The doctor who writes is Roberta Ladisa and is one of those heroes who allowed our National Health Service to hold. [[Applause]] Yet 118, which is the bulwark of our territorial assistance, has been forgotten in all the decrees we have approved in this House. No funds are dedicated to 118 in the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. Today, however, for the first time, in a decree-law we speak of 118 and I the decree-law supports it called a ransom decree for 118. [[Applause]] These doctors, in addition to having been forgotten, have also suffered in this year the injustice of being asked for compensation for workers at risk who have received in the last fifteen years. These doctor contracts were reduced by 25%, about EUR 800 per month, because, due to the lack of clarity in their contract of employment, the Court of Auditors asked the Campania region for further information on the allowance for work which has been used for around EUR 5 per hour since 1999. The ASLs, pending a judgment of the Court of Auditors that is not present, have sent a letter to these doctors in the autotutela requesting the refund of the compensation they have received so far. Imagine what it means for a doctor involved in the management of this emergency to receive a letter asking to return in one solution figures ranging from 70,000 to 100,000 euros [[Applause]] The effect was clearly the abandonment of stations 118 by many doctors. Therefore, the ASL bells had to make bans to hire doctors through cooperatives, through employment contracts as volunteers, and we know that then these operators are paid with fake refunds of a few euros. The risk was therefore to dismantle an emergency service which, on the other hand, is crucial for our National Health Service. We have been reporting and denouncing this injustice in all institutional fora for a year. We filed two questions here in the Senate, the first in February 2020 and the second in February 2021, asking the Minister of Health to put an end to this disaster and to urge the updating of the national collective agreement. In the Chamber, our Parliamentary Group has discussed an interview in the Chamber and in the Campania Region our vice-president Valeria Ciarambino has been fighting alongside these health workers for a year, through acts deposited in the Health Commission and also asking for the transition to stable contracts for these doctors who are precarious historical. Today, however, as I said, at last the decree-law under consideration provides for the redemption of these doctors, because, thanks to our amendment approved in the Budget Committee, the allowance so far received must no longer be refunded. [[Applause]] I trust that this amendment will be included in the final text of the decree-law and will be welcomed by all political forces, because the battles for rights must be for everyone. Other battles and challenges we must fight together to redeem all our heroes, all our health personnel who - I would like to remind you - this year are candidates for the Nobel Peace Prize (I refer to the Italian health staff). Among the heroes to be redeemed are, for example, the PhD students, to whom unfortunately we were unable to guarantee the achievement of the minimal contribution to INPS; There are socio-health workers, who, after working in the management of all three pandemic phases, continue to receive letters of dismissal. There are the doctors of community and primary care, specialists who have trained themselves for the management of primary care and community medicine and to operate in the field of general medicine. Yet, although two interministerial decrees provide that as an area of action for these doctors there is general medicine, this is still not allowed. We had tried to heal this vulnus with two amendments, which unfortunately had the opposite opinion, despite the shortage of doctors of general medicine in this country and the need to structure the homes of communities, which are precisely the places where these specialists will have to operate. My invitation, ladies and gentlemen, is then really to unite to carry out battles that go in the direction of enhancing all our health personnel (I am thinking of the reform of medical training and that of the emergency-territorial urgency), because protecting our health workers means protecting the right to health of Italian citizens. To all health workers go my and our gratitude; we are - and will continue to be - at your side. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u31	She's enlisted to speak Senator Brollini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank our rapporteurs for their excellent work, both Mr Missa and Mrs Toffanin. The measure that we are preparing to debate and vote on is the result of the work of weeks, with which we have tried to listen to the requests for help that now come to us from all categories. As representatives of the institutions, we are called to do everything we need to provide support and support to all the affected groups, in the face of a crisis that has really affected everyone equally. We can and must still do a lot, but I believe that up to now we have done a good job, first with the decrees I raise and refresh and now with the decree supports, to which shortly a decree supports two. These measures clearly demonstrate that the crisis has not passed. We are still in a pandemic emergency and we are trying to get up again, even with the important work done in the field of vaccinations, so that we can give a little relief to the economic activities that have been suffering for too long, but also to finally be able to breathe a little 'normality. We have worked in this direction and the important amendments adopted are a clear demonstration of this: the full exemption of the RAI fee for 2021; but also the possibility, for employers who have fully benefited from the ordinary treatment of wage integration, the ordinary allowance, as well as the treatment of wage integration by way of derogation, provided for by the Budget Law 2020-2021; the possibility to anticipate the beginning of the use of the treatments provided for by the Support Decree, in order precisely to allow continuity with the previous periods. Then there is the granting of a contribution to the concessionaires of maritime state property areas, for the activities of aquaculture, fishing and repopulation active and passive, which have the need more than ever to be relaunched. These are just a few measures contained in the decree that we are about to vote on, measures that, like Italy Viva-PSI, we have strongly wanted and on which we have channeled our commitment in the work of these weeks in the Commission (I take this opportunity to thank all my colleagues and colleagues of the relevant Commissions). As a leader in the Education and Culture Commission, however, I am also thinking of measures relating to the culture and sport sector, perhaps among the groups most affected by the restrictions adopted to contain the virus. In this important work, Italy Viva-PSI has played a central and decisive role. In fact, we think that sharing culture and the world of entertainment means in part sharing life and normality. Our amendment in favour of entertainment operators has been approved (here I thank Riccardo Nencini as the first signatory): these are facilitations for the expenses incurred in 2020 for the realization of cultural activities, even if digital systems have been used for the transmission of live works, such as theatrical performances, concerts and ballets. We have put in place funds that can be used as a tax credit of 90% as an extraordinary contribution: this is undoubtedly an important measure, especially because it is a contribution that is compatible even if companies have benefited from other funding, from the Single Show Fund. Then the sport, which was not left behind, but was and is really on its knees; it is a theme on which we have always fought as Italy Viva-PSI. In fact, another important amendment, which bears my first signature, with which a fund provided for by the Decree-Law on Restoration is further refinanced, with an allocation of 50 million euros, for the period 2020-2021, for the support of amateur sports associations and societies. This is an important step forward and we will ensure that the implementing decree of the rule provides that these resources are actually allocated to associations and companies that have not been able to access the grant as they do not have a VAT number. In the same sense also goes the measure, always wanted by our Group, which allows reimbursement for subscriptions related to access to sports facilities of all kinds. As we know, the containment measures taken in recent months to deal with the virus have affected the entire economic fabric, but probably the sports facilities sector has been one of the hardest hit, at least because the closures have continued and unfortunately continue to continue. Moreover, the amendment approved allows the reimbursement to consist, as an alternative to the refund of the consideration, in the issue of a voucher of equal value, usable within six months from the end of the national emergency. These interventions are of great help to the sports world, which is struggling for the long suspension of activities due to the virus. The sport sector is cross-cutting and we, as a Group, have moved to try to listen to requests from all operators who move within this world. For example, an amendment was adopted for ski instructors, resulting in an appropriation of 40 million for the category. It is essential to support this sector, just as it is to support the sector of culture and entertainment. We have worked on it with passion and commitment; we have all worked together: this is also a qualitative leap and a new page of the new Government and this Parliament. I mean, I think we are aware of the disastrous consequences of this epidemic. An even greater effort awaits us, and today's measure is in the right direction. Colleagues and colleagues, there is still a lot to work on. Above all, there is a need to restore confidence even with progress and awareness and confidence campaigns for citizens who need to approach restart. In short, there is a need for trust and security, for certainty and programming, alongside a vaccination campaign that has certainly made a qualitative leap. In conclusion, I believe we must hope that with this decree-law and with the decree-law-supports- bis we can finally reopen everything, even the places that have still been closed. Staying in my field, that of sport, I think of indoor swimming pools, for which there is still no reopening date, but it is an important fact; I think of water parks and gyms, for which there is a date that goes back to June 1. Perhaps, even in this case, it would be appropriate to revise that period, from 1 June, and anticipate it to the middle of May. In fact, we know that at that time the gyms already have a physiological decrease, at least 50 percent. I would like to say that perhaps we should also consider this further, a majority and a minority together, clearly hoping that monitoring will give us ever better data and that, above all, the vaccination campaign can speed up further. The hope, from Italy Viva-PSI, is that we have really taken the right path and we can all work together. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u33	Senator De Bertoldi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u34	Mr President, I would like to thank the Government if it gives us any attention. I begin my speech by trying to understand the reason why we have arrived at yet another decree in compensation, support or relief: we change the name, but unfortunately it must not change the substance. In fact, before judging and commenting, we are used to assessing the reasons behind a measure. If we are here to talk again about a decree of support (in this case), then the main motivation certainly lies in the pandemic, but above all in the wrong answers, dear colleagues, which the majority and governments have given and are giving to it. The term I don't like (even because it's foreign) is the so-called lockdown and I think of those excessive lockdowns, which I think I can call Merkel-Macron, because unfortunately there is a unique thought in Europe: if Merkel says it and Macron says it, then it's true. Too bad, though, ladies and gentlemen, that we do not have Macron's financial resources, let alone Merkel's. We are not the ones who have been able to compensate 60-70 percent for those VAT consignments that you have made and are making suffer. We are the ones - let us not forget - who gave overall VAT consignments and businesses just under 6% of the losses. Let us never forget: not 60 or 70, but just under 6 percent, with all the decree-laws. With this decree we are preparing to give 11 billion euros, which, compared to the more than 400 billion losses estimated by the CGIA of Mestre, which I have reduced for simplicity, represent in fact 3%. These are the real numbers. That is why the truth Merkel-Macron cannot be translated into truth in Italy and in any case in absolute truth. It would be enough to look around, have the courage and humility to recognize one's mistakes, Lords of the Government; recognize one's mistakes and not be stubborn, insist, as you are insisting, in this logic. I also think about curfew: you don't want to admit that you were wrong. You, Minister, Undersecretaries, do not want to admit that curfew is an absurdity, as it is persevering in the two or three lockdowns you have done. We look to other countries, such as Russia, which has avoided the fall lockdown and is not worse than us, anything else. But let's look closer: Stockholm, a metropolitan and European city that has not even locked down, however, has much better data than ours. Let's look at Madrid - this is political - where there was the victory of the popular anti lockdowns on the Spanish socialist left to the government, which with the lockdown wanted to ruin Madrid too. The populars had the courage to say no and Madrid responded with a more thriving economy and better health care than ours. [[Applause]] Friends of the government, even if you are on the phone, for once listen to what the opposition tells you: don't be so presumptuous and don't feel so important. Arrogance does not pay and will not pay you: if you admit your mistakes, sometimes, it would be good for you in the first place and for the country, Let's remember that. What were the answers you gave, ladies and gentlemen? What are the answers inherent in the decree that we are analyzing? Perhaps the answer is the diseducational pardon ex Article 4, which is of no use to anyone? A sauce of up to 5,000 euros and with income limits, in fact, serves only a small reduction of the tax warehouse of the Agency of collection and little more. As I said, it is a diseducational pardon, as we all know, the condons are always so, while on this too you could hear the proposals of Brothers of Italy, who said no to the pardon and yes to an active fiscal policy of mass. We have three instruments to use: active repentance, accession and judicial conciliation. We could have told the citizens: You adjust your tax positions, pay 100% of the taxes and we subscribe the penalties and double your installment from 48 months to 8 years. This would have been an educational policy, useful to all citizens and businesses, not like the joke of Article 4; it would have allowed citizens to comply with the tax system in the right time and without being burdened with sanctions. That is why I say that we are a constructive opposition and because we have the honour of being able to say that we carry you on a silver platter proposals that you could make your own and that instead, because of the fact that they come from the opposition, you look very carefully even from considering. Other answers you gave on whose contents you did not listen to us. Couldn't you use the $5 billion cashback or the money spent in the lottery of receipts to compensate for our VAT matches, i.e. those workers, those bars, those public stores or those self-employed who are in fact suffering for themselves the whole crisis generated by the pandemic? Could it not be avoided, with the continuous extension of evictions, to place on the small owners the role of welfare that belongs to the State? Why today the citizen, who maybe has a couple of apartments on which he lives, bought with his own liquidation or his own savings, in fact must keep people who, thanks to the blockade of evictions, remain there, thus performing a welfare function that - I repeat - does not belong to him, but is it of the State? I also want to think about the answers that you did not give in this decree-law and that you continue not to give. Keep the mobs toasting, ladies and gentlemen. The games rooms are closed, as well as the legal game, while the clandestine bisques proliferate and toast to champagne, because they tripled and quadrupled the billed. The state's coffers, ladies and gentlemen, lost six billion in 2020, which, by letting the legal game work instead of the mafias, you could have given bartenders, restaurateurs or small businesses so burdened by the situation. So there are many criticisms that we could make of this decree. Of course, the answers of Brothers of Italy, as I said, are many. Some of them I mentioned. I also remember the issue of liquidity: since we all knew that we did not have the means of France and Germany to give adequate compensation to companies, we had to intervene more on the liquidity front and therefore use the leverage that clearly allows us to multiply by six, seven and eight guarantees, giving liquidity to companies. This had to be done: say that you will do so with the decree support- bis. As always, we have to wait confidently, except then unfortunately we are disappointed, as often happens, by what you are going to propose next time. I conclude, however, with a positive note and thanks to those cross-cutting colleagues in politics, from the Democratic Party to the League, who wanted to support a battle that we have been conducting for about two years on the postponement of professional terms. We recognise that we have adopted an amendment which is very important for Italian professionals, and at last - for the time being for Covid, but I am sure that, together with you, we will be able to approve in the coming weeks the draft law that has been working in the Commission for over a year - they have the right to become ill without having to pay the penalties. They will therefore have the right to be equal to other workers and other citizens. I conclude with a note of hope, after the due criticism for what was not and was not in your decree. On this subject, in the Commission between parties we have been able to work together and we should learn from this, because - I repeat - when we work together, when we know how to accept the proposals and ideas of the opposition, we all gain from it, but above all the country. It is not useful to play dirty; it is not useful to want to arrogate only the merits; we must share them, but together get to the goal, which serves our country to get out of the negativity and crisis in which, unfortunately, it finds itself. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u35	He's enlisted to speak Senator D'Alfonso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u36	Mr President, I would like to thank my fellow Members who have spoken for making the role easier for me. We are now in the process of completing a preliminary work of our own competence concerning the first decree-law support. We found additional financial cover compared to issues that had been left out. Think of the additional financial coverage concerning all the weakness of the categories of work that we have recognized as invisible, even fundamental: seasonal workers, those who have benefits with cyclical return within the activities related to the community and the multitude, such as culture and entertainment. We found cover for the fixed costs of companies. Is it imaginable a society that starts again to turn with vigor and confidence, if we do not allow the enterprises to overcome those obstacles necessary and imposed by the order? The lockdown was a strong impediment for reasons related to the contagion to be blocked. It is clear that this has brought to the bare the fixed costs of the enterprises. We have done a work of secular and lucid discernment in order to have everyone's consent. We have worked to make sure that the white economy of the mountain does not just concern the large numbers of the mountain in the North, which has a traction force for the national and international tourist location. Through the amending activity of merit we have made sure that the mountain of the small numbers of the Apennines, which however allows the tourist offer of the country Italy system, was also covered. We have also made it possible for figures on innovation in culture and research, such as research doctors, to be faced with the opportunity to extend their expertise in research and innovation. We need to know that without these innovation resources for innovation there will be no economy capable of competing internationally. However, we know that there are still issues that need to be dealt with. Think, for example, of the economy of small-scale fishing, which then connects to catering. These workers need measures. In the same way we have found the way to allow the municipalities to respect the production of accounting documents in time and adequately, because they too have suffered the war of the interruption of normality and of the activity of the employees responsible for the care of accounting documents. The municipalities will be able to do this by 30 September of this year, thanks to an amendment, which saw me engaged in the front row, because I saw the struggle of some municipalities, recently renewed, that did not succeed. And it is not possible that the rule of public administration prevails over real life. [[Applause]] In this regard, I would like to highlight one fact: we also ensured that the European Union's rules of sanctions, concerning the life of businesses, concerning a very lucid rule, which wanted Gino Giugni at the time of the best period of the nineties, when it came from the formation of the saying to that of doing, so that young people were introduced into the work circuit through training and employment contracts. There has been a dispute between the European Union and Italy, as a Member State. Italy has lost and activated the renovation of the economic refreshment, in that case a negative refreshment, to the detriment of 3.000 enterprises. We have tabled an amendment and we have instructed it favourably, with the lucidity of the policy, because the rule, public law and public decision cannot kill real life and so we have allowed the installment. We know that, before the pandemic, in the belly of the Italian public administration there were 150 billion euros, to make the country system modern and to provide adequate infrastructure its territory. The EUR 248 billion of the recovery plan and the resources of the next seven years of programming, as a Member State of the EU, are now added to those EUR 150 billion. What is needed further is to make the decision of public administration firm and fast, organizing the relations between the public administration and the life of the economy and the enterprise on the basis of the value of immediacy. It cannot take seventy-two months to put the quality of a project into order. In Italy we have passed a wrong and debilianco message. Unlock construction sites? No! First of all we need a project unblocking, so that the project has the command of the work to be done. We need to re-establish competences in the public administration, to ensure that what we want to do is deal with a need, through the project then exactly happen. I tell you an episode, in short: for a hundred years the Municipality and the citizens of Chioggia have been waiting for the passage of property, from a land in possession, which was given to them by Mussolini, to a land that would then be freed, according to the words spoken by the summits of Palazzo Chigi over the course of a hundred years. We are still in the process of investigating, despite the fact that Parliament has deliberated and legislated. This is the symbolic proof of how sometimes the public administration gets to devour, to obstruct, to take an attitude as a mammal, towards projects that affect real life. We therefore have a Ministry in charge of reforming the public administration and we have a precise commitment on the government's agenda: we must reduce the time, not remove the safeguard of respect for transparency, criminal law and par-conditional law, but we must ensure that the pronunciations of third parties arrive in time, because this type of work, financed by the public resource, will allow companies to have digitalization and wiring, in the relationships between the enterprise's life plan and the PA's system and will allow schools to have the continuity of the educational offer, as at university. Think also of the need for telemedicine, which will soon become a reality as a result of the pandemic. We cannot imagine that fragility will only be called a pandemic by Covid-19, because we will probably know other forms of fragility in the future and we will need to organize the continuation of education, education and health care at a distance. All this requires investment, but also decision-making in the immediacy, measurement of the quantity and quality of the results and evaluation. We have known the smart working, an organizational form imposed by necessity, but we must also reorganize the workloads in order to make it work and that it is not the negation of work. All this requires that we continue to legislate on the substance, as we have tried to do in the activity concerning the first decree-law supports: an activity that has removed the controversy, the attitude of interest of partisan. I am very pleased, for example, with the work we have managed to achieve on the weak sectors of the so-called economy of the community, the size of the population. Think of the ski lifts, the mountain installations: would it be imaginable that they free themselves from weakness without public help? There is an area - that of airport realities - which has not so far received any kind of support. There has been an attempt at aid in the budget law this year, but it still has to come to its destination. We have to help airport companies otherwise we will lose air connectivity, which means speed for economies, ease of travel. We must bear this in mind when we know that it is not over, that the value of 1,700 billion in our GDP is not restored either with the 32 billion already decided or with the 40 billion that we are going to decide. We need to put in place a condition of care and help that really recovers what we had to interrupt. We have to do everything we can, we have to make public administration an ally of real life, and we have to make sure that training and innovation measures are really available to all places... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u37	She's enlisted to speak Senator Garnet. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u38	Mr President, we are gathered here today to discuss the decree-law support, which gives 32 billion for the refreshment of all the losses suffered by companies during this period of pandemic. Unfortunately, however, these measures are absolutely ineffective and inefficient; they are just a drop in the sea. Today I will focus on what will be done for school: 150 million are allocated for the recovery of training gaps. Unfortunately, however, the plan of the Minister Bianchi, which adds to these 150 million others 320 to the PON and another 40 for educational poverty (for a total of 510 million euros), does not foresee the recovery of training gaps. The plan, in fact, provides for a summer opening that does everything except to heal those gaps accumulated in the training of students in over a year of school practically lost. It is lost because of the policies put in place by this Government, but also, unfortunately - I regret to say - from the previous one, which did not put a stop to the unilateral acts of the Presidents of the Region, indeed, it also favored them. In fact, some ministers of this government as of the previous have favoured and in all ways carried out policies in favour of the closure - alas - of schools, and especially of high schools. It is here that a training gap has been built up that will certainly not be filled with a summer plan that only includes laboratory activities, support, psychological support, as well as orientation: areas that nothing - I stress nothing - has to do with what has been lost in terms of knowledge and skills in a year of work. Moreover, this Government, and in particular the Minister Bianchi, with great inconsistency also anticipate the closure of schools, opening to the scrutines already from the beginning of June. At the same time, the Government, which promises summer openings, not to recover the training gap (so, these 150 million are useless), also does not provide any commitment in the appeal of all those illegitimate ordinances of the Regions, which have foreseen the school à la carte. In practice, families can choose whether to have their children follow the courses from home or whether to have them follow in the presence, in this way frustrating also this last month of school which, unfortunately, will not have any influence on the improvement of the education of our students. In a nutshell, if real investments are to be made in the Italian school, these must be aimed at taking a step back from the cuts in current spending made by Minister Gelmini at the time, investing to deepen the quality of the study plans, to restore a sense to the disciplines that are faced in the curricula of schools of every order and grade and then to reduce the number of pupils per class. In September, in fact, if we are in the same condition, with an unchanged number of students per class in the same deficit structures that we, unfortunately, have in our school real estate, we will risk losing another year of training for our students. There is no measure of refreshment for all this lost work, for the Italian school and for the students; a generation almost irreversibly compromised, since, however, there is no will to remedy all this. The training gap is not solved by spot measures of 150 million and with 18,000 euros at school. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u39	He's enlisted to speak Senator Damiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the government, I would like to thank my fellow rapporteurs, Senator Toffanin and Senator Manca, the Presidents of the two Commissions, Senators D'Alfonso and Pesco, and the Government. It's been two really important weeks and intense work. I would like to thank Mr Durigon and Vice Minister Castelli, who are present in the Senate today. We've all done a great teamwork together. As my colleague Senator Ferro said in his speech earlier, we all wore the national team's shirt. [[Applause]] This is the spirit with which we have formed this Government, of which Forza Italia is a founding and integral part: to wear everyone a shirt, which is the shirt of the National, and to carry out imposing and important measures for the country. Today we examine the decree of support, which goes precisely in the direction of making the state feel close to the productive categories of our country; categories that have been absolutely devastated, in this year, by this economic crisis and by the hurricane of the pandemic. Today we have the right-duty to help these difficult categories. We have resisted and we are coming out of it, thanks to the powerful vaccination campaign. We promised, we made a commitment to citizens: 500,000 vaccinations a day. We finally did it today. This will be our weapon today to fight the pandemic and finally get out of the crisis. The economic impact has been devastating, especially for the productive fabric of our country, which is based on small and medium-sized enterprises that do not have an autonomy that can resist for more years. At the end of the day, however, we did it, and thanks to heavy debt interventions we have now come to see the light at the end of the tunnel. We are well aware of the economic realities of our country and in the past year we have always listened to them and it is for this reason that we have always gone in one direction in the proposals put forward, according first to the opposition and participating today in the action of government. We have always asked the Government, from the first moment, for targeted interventions in support of economic activities, through non-refundable interventions and the immediate provision of resources. Today, none of us have received any protests about the disbursements already made to the current accounts of economic activities. We asked for speed (and in this we succeeded) and injections of liquidity to return a minimum of serenity to our activities. It is clear that we all hope to get out of the pandemic as soon as possible and restore dignity to profit from our work. [[Applause]] I believe that this is the important point and at the moment we must give dignity to these activities through support and aid, so that the storm passes as soon as possible. We have indicated the direction for some time now and we have also succeeded with this measure. We all know the scope of the measure, which amounts to EUR 32 billion. Even this year the decline in GDP is very large (around 9%) and almost all activities have gone into debt and have fallen in turnover between 20 and 10 for sure, depending on the sector. Wholesale has fallen by 16 percent, artistic and even entertainment activities by 15 percent, manufacturing activity by 12 percent, professional scientific activities by over 10 percent. These are numbers that sound an alarm cry. Today we have to help the system start again. We are in May, the first four months of 2021 have passed and we already have almost 80 billion budget deviation, which we have approved to help the economic sectors, the restart and the relaunch of our country. As I said, the measure has EUR 32 billion: some EUR 15 billion is lost for economic activities; about EUR 6 billion for work and combating poverty; EUR 3.5 billion for health and safety; EUR 3.6 billion for support to local authorities. This is - I repeat - a matter of non-refundable contributions. We have also cut down discrimination on the Ateco codes, which have created so many problems in the recent past. Winter tourism has stopped and we help it with a powerful intervention. Another commitment is the 500,000 vaccines a day. Fixed costs have also been reduced in order to avoid the continuation of an injustice: we have imposed the closure of commercial activities and therefore cannot continue to arrive at them the bills. With regard to the public land occupation tax, the exemption from its payment was made until the end of the year. As for Tari, a commitment has been made with the decree support bis because this was also an injustice. The permanence of fixed costs shouted revenge and they were thus reduced. Even the world of sport is still standing still today and we must help it start again with reopenings, because today the best medicine is the combination of vaccines and reopenings and we are going in that direction. We have given a signal to the world of sport, through this contribution to grassroots sport and amateur sports associations of about 50 million euros. The same is true of the measures in favour of the mountain, because it was not possible to reopen the structures in the mountain resorts and therefore there has been a terrible decline in turnover. In this measure, therefore, we have come to our aid with measures to promote sport and the mountains. All this has been done in order to give impetus to the resumption and restart, with Parliament which today, with the approval of the majority of an agenda, gives the direction of what should be the next decree support- bis that the Government will approve in the next few hours. This too is a great test of maturity for this Assembly and for the political majority that supports the Dragon Government. [[Applause]] As President Silvio Berlusconi also said in an interview given a few days ago, these are finally the first concrete steps of the Government on the right path, which is the one indicated by Forza Italia. Ours, therefore, has always been a coherent line to the opposition, consistent today within the Government, because in the past we have also voted for budgetary deviations and we have done so in the sole interest of Italian citizens. This has always been our goal. Italian citizens today - using a metaphor - must be given a blanket to shelter again from the night that is still deep and then we must also give gasoline, because at this moment we must rekindle the engines, we must start again, we must return to run, to live and to fly and finally to greet - hopefully as soon as possible - these bad moments. The one at our examination, therefore, is a measure of substance, important, we built it with a team game and so we hope to start again in the immediate future and to throw behind us the horrible year just passed. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u41	She's registered to speak Senator Rivolta. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u42	Mr President, I should like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs, because they have valued the work of all my colleagues and the groups and it was not obvious. I would like to thank the Presidents, who have overseen the entire analysis of the decree and who I call on them to curb, for the next decrees, the anxious pressure of some ministers. We have almost adopted budgetary laws, because of the complexity, but with the time set, so unfortunately we had to do one reading here too. But precisely because it is a single reading, it is necessary, especially at the moment of final synthesis, to have time to avoid that imperfections and small errors can remain which will then be settled in other measures. I thank the Government, in particular Deputy Minister Castelli and Undersecretaries Durigon and Bini. I also thank all the offices that have supported all the Commission's work with the usual professionalism. But let's get to the content. Indeed, the work has seen a convergence of the various groups on priority issues and therefore there has been only one action compared to the COSAP-TOSAP exemption. The League strongly demanded the exemption of the RAI fee for those public establishments that were closed and this request was also shared by the other Groups. I believe that a very important job has been done. In many speeches I have spoken about the importance of the variable time; there has been synergy with the regions in order to improve, both in terms of time and effectiveness, the work. I am referring in particular to what came out unanimously from the State-Regions Conference in relation to the mountain section. There was therefore an important preparatory work. As many Members have said, with an agenda, we ask the Government to increase the Mountain Fund by 100 million in its decree-law. Not only that, even with respect to bilateral agreements on health mobility, the fact that the compliances provided for in paragraph 492 of Law No 178 of 2020 will be able to start from 2022, will make sure not to block the repartition of the National Health Fund 2021 and have a reasonable time for the signing of bilateral agreements between the Regions for the government of interregional health mobility. This is also a great achievement. Another point, shared and strongly desired by the League, is that concerning sports activity, whose Fund has been increased with 50 million for sports associations and societies. [[Applause]] This is an important measure because the Fund represents support for the coverage and payment of rents for rent and for the concession of users that associations and sports clubs will have to honour despite the suspension of their activity due to the pandemic. Many times it is taken for granted, but I would like to remind you that the activity that sports associations and societies carry out is not only aimed at ensuring that people can do sports, strengthening their mental and physical health, but also involves a socialization speech with a great effect on the ability to work as a team and be together. The blocking of these activities has therefore been a wound to many people, especially young people. The second very important action on sport concerns the possibility of having the extension for the entry into force of sports contracts. There is an absolute awareness that sports companies are not yet ready; therefore the extension to 31 December 2023, when the deadline would be 1 July 2022, was an excellent achievement. There are also smaller measures that the League wanted to bring about as amending proposals that give a clear signal. I am talking, for example, about the sum of EUR 1.5 million planned for the prison police riot uniforms. [[Applause]] We know that prisons have many problems, but there are also many problems with prison police officers, who must be properly equipped to deal with moments of great emergency and danger. This is a small signal, in our opinion, very important. Not only that, we also wanted to give a signal to those workers, separate parents, who had difficulties because of the pandemic because they lost their jobs or had to keep their activities closed; a fund of 10 million euros will help them pay the child support allowance up to 800 euros. This is also an important signal. Another important measure, which perhaps many underestimate, is the fund of 20 million for local broadcasters, a sector in great suffering for a long time, even more so in this past year, with the problem of advertising revenue and the possibility of survival. This is therefore another very precise signal. 12.04 p.m. (continued). I would also like to make a passage, which I believe is right, on the recognition of sign language and also on a simplification and acceleration in the allocation of resources to the National Federation of Pro blind Institutions. This is another measure that can be adapted; the contribution remains that, but speed and simplification are points that we continue to define as necessary in this House. It is a small thing, but it will serve the National Federation of Pro-Blind Institutions. I would like to make one last reference to an important, serious subject that has struck all these days. After the celebrations on 1 May, when perhaps there has been talk of issues not on the subject, here we have to talk, as some colleagues have done, about what is happening: the increase in deaths at work, an unacceptable phenomenon in 2021. I fear that in many cases economic difficulties have led to a decrease in the level of safety. This cannot happen, and I think new resources must be provided precisely for controls to be carried out, with more people in charge, with the existence of safety instruments and all the prerogatives necessary to ensure the safety of workers. It is not possible, in fact, that the numbers have risen so much. It's a defeat for our country. In my opinion, the number of deaths at work is indicative of the civilization of a country, which should protect all workers, whatever their role. It's a battle that we'll all still have to fight together. For the moment we are moving forward, we approve in the next few hours this incredibly important decree-law, with very substantial resources of 32 billion. I put hope in these abundant resources and in the possibility of getting all the activities back on track, with the right caution, because perhaps many times it is misunderstood. Nobody says: free everyone, it doesn't matter. Prudence and a sense of responsibility must be there, but precisely because of prudence and a sense of responsibility we must allow all workers, all families, to resume a normal life, to resume work, which not only gives sustenance but also dignity, the meaning of life, the importance of contribution to one's community. Let's move on, then: the League is there and has also shown the Government to carry out an important action that will continue to do, with concreteness and simplicity, but with so much force. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u43	He's enlisted to speak Senator Fenu. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u44	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank my colleagues, the members of the Government and the rapporteurs for the work they have done together, which has improved the text of the decree-law support and which has shown Parliament's guidelines to the Government in some way through the agendas for the drafting of the second decree-law next issue. The work and reading of the amendments of all the Groups has revealed the common will to support businesses, workers and families in this which we hope will be the last pandemic. This is still the time to save the country's work and production capacity with all the necessary means. We've done it so far, in the past year. We have done so in recent weeks with the work in the Commissions and the Government has done so on the furrow traced by the Government Count, with a use of resources in a single year never seen before in our country. When the pandemic is over and we will finally get back to life, however, we must not forget the deep feeling of anxiety felt when we saw our streets and empty squares; when we saw our shops, our bars and our closed restaurants; when we saw our small businesses deprived of the possibility of living. We must not forget that the vitality of our cities is still given by small economic activities. We must not forget what has emerged dramatically in the past year. Our small entrepreneurs and VAT matches, although they have always supported the economic and social fabric of the country, are still the most important part of the population without the most basic forms of guarantee that belong to the right of each worker. [[Applause]] With the latest budget law, we have provided for a new form of integration fund for self-employed persons enrolled in separate management (ISCRO), experimentally. After the pandemic we will have to stabilize this measure by extending it to all categories of self-employed. It is our duty to do so. It is a principle of social justice. Today, we are called upon to have an emergency rescue with the measures that we are about to approve. This is also our duty. There are many rescue donuts provided for in the original text of the decree supports and there are also many new measures introduced by the Senate in the Finance and Budget Commissions, about which colleagues spoke yesterday and today in general discussion, including the exemption for hotels, bars and restaurants from the first installment IMU, the RAI fee, the occupation tax of public land; the exemption for owners from the payment of taxes on rents not collected; the refreshments to start-ups - for which I thank my colleague, first signatory, Senator Dell'Olio - who have not received compensation so far. The additional measures are many and are all extraordinarily aimed at supporting companies and workers in difficulty. I would like to recall, among the many amendments adopted, three which have introduced new safeguards for workers in industrial ports, including the port of Cagliari. I refer to the amendment to my first signature, supported by the deputy minister Alessandra Todde and the Sardinian MPs of the Movimento 5 Stars, including my colleague Mrs Evangelista, and to the amendments of Senators Emilio Floris of Forza Italia and Senator Giuseppe Luigi Cucca of Italia Viva; colleagues whom I thank, as a Sardinian, for having also expressed on this occasion the common will to operate, net of the various political sensibilities, for the good of our Island. Then there is the amendment of the Movimento 5 Stars to the first signature of my colleague Senator Mario Turco, who extended the transfer also to the tax credits of the National Transition Plan 4.0, one of the most financed measures of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, complementary investment fund. [[Applause]] Thanks to this novelty, we have in fact introduced a kind of superbonus companies, allowing companies to freely transfer tax credits for investments in innovation and training and in research and development and, therefore, not only to use them in compensation, as was planned so far. The novelty makes even closer and within reach one of the main economic proposals of the Movimento 5 Stars, that is the strengthening of an electronic platform to certify and circulate the tax credits entered into the system. In this regard, in the context of the cognitive investigation that we are carrying out in the Chamber and Senate Finance Commissions, it has emerged the suggestion of authoritative auditors to untie from the tax return the issue of redistribution of income and incentive to investments and purchases for so-called meritorious expenses. According to these experts, it is quite questionable to use the system of deductions and deductions on tax returns, because it impoverishes the Irpef tax base, often cutting off the so-called incapients from the benefits. On the other hand, a system of direct subsidies would be more efficient in the case of redistributive measures, commensurate, for example, with the ISEE declaration. In this sense, we need a reflection on the use of transferable tax credits as direct subsidies; tax credits untied by the system of deductions and deductions that we know so much damage have done to our tax system. The transferable tax credits can be a valid solution of subsidies and direct support, for several reasons: they work; they guarantee immediate payment to the beneficiaries; they will result in a disbursement by the State, i.e. less revenue, only once the positive effects have been obtained also for the State's revenue. The use of the tax criteria could be a zero-balance solution for the state's coffers, but with disruptive effects for the economy, the environment and families (see the superbonus). Mr President, I shall end my speech with the subject I have begun with. Ours is a country of micro-enterprises. Let us not be seduced by models that do not belong to us. It is a model that certainly shows elements of weakness, of strong weakness - for example - towards the web giants, but it is also a system that has always demonstrated a superior ability to react and resilience to systems of other countries. Our small businesses have always been able to innovate and adapt to market changes. The independence, resilience and imagination of our micro-enterprises are the mirror of our way of being. Our superbonus is also an Italian measure, an Italian intuition, because it combines revival and development of the true green economy, energy efficiency, improvement of our building heritage and also the mood of Italians, because we talk about the most precious asset they have: the home. [[Applause]] The amendments to the Decree-Law support, which have extended the eligibility to other tax credits, are an important sign. It is necessary, sooner or later, to tidy up the credit system, also through the development of the recently implemented platform by the Revenue Agency to certify these credits, thus making them safe and secure for the State and expendable for the purchase of goods and services. This could be an all-Italian way of self-financing: all Italian just like our small businesses. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u45	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur, Senator Toffanin.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u46	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank all those who have worked in this process, which is now nearing the vote on the support decree-law. And I extend my thanks also to the senators and senators who at this session of general discussion wanted, with their contribution, to bring to our attention and to that of the Government still proposals and highlight the criticalities that can still be constructive in view of the future measures, beginning with the decree-law support- bis. It is true that what we are about to approve is a good measure; it is certainly not a decisive measure, given the pandemic that is still going on; given the limited resources that we had available to us in relation to the deviation we voted last January, and also given the measures and their consequences adopted by the previous government and which still affect our logic. This Government certainly cannot satisfy all the requests and satisfy the needs and serious critical issues that emerge in our country. It is true that 2,852 amendments have been tabled to the measure, but that does not mean that the majority rejected the decree-law in question. On the contrary, I believe it has been given the opportunity to represent one's own sensibilities and to gather, in its multiplicity, the cry for help that has come to us from the citizens, through their representatives and all the associations that have been audited in the Finance and Budget Commissions. Then, however, the responsibility of this majority has been expressed in the work of great synthesis that has been carried out, preferring far-reaching measures, which have found great convergence and have prevented the additional resources available to Parliament from being lost in so many streams, obviously imperceptible and ineffective in terms of intervention. Sure, you could have done better. More can be done - as I said in my report - and we are ready to work for the future too. However, it is true that this Government is not the continuation of Count II: it seems clear to me that it has demonstrated a great discontinuity, also because the PNRR, on which rests our future and of the whole country, has certainly been improved and has been presented in the planned terms. Europe had failed the previous one, but the Dragons Government has managed to present a project that can restart the whole country system. It is also true that, with the Draghi Government, Parliament - as we have shown with this measure - has sent out an important signal, because it has regained its role in the legislative process, giving a strong contribution and above all managing to affect the incoming measure, the decree- bis-supports, through the commitment undertaken by the Government to continue in the future with the logic that we have begun at this stage. Therefore, all the broad topics dealt with in the first decree support will be completed with our requests in the second decree support. At last we no longer use the logic of the bonus, which we want to forget, but we talk about affecting the fixed costs of the companies that have been closed and have not been able to take advantage of the services on which we want to bring benefits. We believe that, above all, companies should be given liquidity. Of course, with the non-refundable contributions - that is true, and I say this to my colleagues in the opposition - there is no guarantee of large injections of liquidity to those who receive the contribution. That is why we have committed the Government to intervene with the moratorium on mortgages, but also by creating new state guarantee funds, because the company needs liquidity to be shared. We have also asked the Government to be able to proceed with the reopenings, which must be carried out as soon as possible, because only with the work can our system be restarted. Of course, there is a need for security and for the vaccination plan to proceed as it is. This is also a sign of discontinuity with respect to the previous Government: finally, with General Son, a vaccination plan was put in place, which was not there before, really cutting what had happened last year. What I want to stress is that we need to implement the vaccination plan. We need to reopen our activities and provide liquidity to make investments. These will be the recipes that will give us the guarantee of being able to restart the economy and our system. I believe that with this decree we have given a good signal, because we have engaged in this logic. I am convinced that we will finally bring home a result with this that will be the first of so many measures. And it will also be a denotation of the Draghi Government, which has finally listened to Parliament, putting itself in a different logic to try to give answers in a situation that we think is truly dramatic and worrying, and together, in the same spirit of cooperation that this majority has seen united, we can begin to give some signal of restart. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call the rapporteur, Senator Manca.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u47	Mr President, representatives of the Government, I think that the general debate has allowed us all to find areas of reflection which go far beyond the decree in conversion. As we said in the report presenting the measure, our work has concentrated not only on defining the measures useful for conversion, but also and above all on indicating to the government the fundamental guidelines for the definition of the new decree support- bis. However, ladies and gentlemen, I start from a first fact that I would like to clarify at least between us: I do not think it is useful for the country to introduce the controversy about curfew. This decree has allocated more than 5 billion to the health system of our country; over 2.8 billion for the acquisition of vaccines and we all know here - there is no one who does not know - that the speed of vaccinations is the first economic measure to get out of the individual and economic limitations that the pandemic obviously imposed on our country. So there is no one who does not want to get past curfew. However, we must take into account that we must work very carefully to open up our activities in safety, because our goal is to open up, and not close down in a few months. Our goal is to free the country in safety and I think that all this, in the face of the greatest effort that the Government is supporting together with the Regions, that is to say the speeding up of the vaccination plan, cannot allow us to open absurd polemics to give the idea that there is a contrast between those who want to free the country from limitations and those who, instead, want to force the country into limitations. It is an absurd and inexplicable debate because, if we speed up the vaccination plan as we are doing, reaching 500,000 vaccinations every day - they are different from the 100,000 that we did a few weeks or a few months ago - we will be able to arrive, acquiring the vaccines, (there are 2.8 billion destined) to an immunity of flock that will put us in condition to safely get out of the limitations. However, the ambition of this country must be greater, colleagues. I think it is very important to point out here that some resources have also been identified to bring Italy within the vaccine productions. Our country must have the objective of protecting citizens from future variants and also from future pandemics. And to do this, we need - as we indicated in the National Recovery and Resilience Plan - the first and most important investment on the territorial dimension of the social and health system. We have seen, in fact, how difficult it is to treat people within pandemic phenomena and we cannot ignore this situation. The pandemic experience leads us to believe that investment in the territorial dimension is the primary task to be done to secure Italy. Not curfew polemics! We work together immediately to design a new social and territorial system that takes care and returns to the centrality of basic and territorial medicine, which came out of the radar of the high specialization of large hospitals and major research sites. I do not want to contrast the search for large hospitals, but we have seen that, without a stronger territorial medicine; without a telematic medicine that brings the necessary care to people's homes; without a new central basic medicine, we will not be able to protect the country from future pandemic variants. I say this because I find it wrong, also on the part of Brothers of Italy, to continue to insist on this controversy losing sight of the crucial objective that the country must have, namely to guarantee a fundamental security to families and businesses even in the face of the likely arrival of new waves of new variations and even new pandemics. This must be the challenge of a great country, which has one of the strongest universal health systems in Europe and the world. I think we have to start from this reasoning because from here we understand the right investment that we made on the architrave of our country. Small and medium-sized enterprises are the architrave of our country. Anyone who reads the Italian economy knows that small and medium-sized enterprises are the backbone of our economy. There was a need for action on fixed costs. We have introduced new elements from the past: we have passed the Ateco codes; all together and without political quarrels we have allocated fundamental resources to help small and medium-sized enterprises. There are hundreds of thousands of activities that rightly have a closer state today. We have removed from the midst of encrustations and frictions that could also generate social conflicts and put in difficulty the system of public order and security of the country. Having allocated more than 430 million euros to the reduction of fixed costs was a fair political choice that has no color and represents the majority that supports this Government. It also determined the address for additional resources on the liquidity of the necessary companies in the next decree. Similarly, the guidelines we have defined address - Mr Comencini reminded us earlier - also the issue of how to solve the problem of fragility, which live in the territorial dimension. The pandemic crisis has opened up new imbalances and widened the scissors between those who can't and those who can. We have a theme of social fragility in the very broad territorial dimension, to which we connect all the issues to which we have tried to give a first response, including the difficult issue of evictions. It is not a defeat: it is a first attempt to give an answer, but it must also have at its side the social dimension of the scale of the challenge. There is, in fact, the eviction suffers it within the dynamics of poverty acquired within the pandemic phase and there are those who have acquired it because already before he did not want to pay the canon and, therefore, there are very delicate social dynamics even inside the evictions. We tried to quickly give a first difficult answer, but the majority measured themselves. We have made a first comparison and I believe that this is a positive patrimony. Finally, I come to the tourism sector and to tourism businesses. We have always said, from the first day, that it is one of the supply chains that needs special attention because it represents an area of potential growth of our country's gross domestic product. Italy is a natural platform on the cultural and environmental level. For its architectural beauties and quality of life it has no rivals in the world. So it is clear that we must begin to reason by chain: we are not all equal, not all economic dynamics are discharged in a proportional way. We must start looking at the future of the country through measures dedicated to the different supply chains. The theme of the airport system is different from that of mechanics or manufacturing. Just look at the Istat data on industrial growth, to see that there are sectors, such as industrial or construction, that grow, while others, unfortunately, such as services or trade, are in great difficulty. On tourism we must inevitably open the investment season, focusing on the possibility of creating a more qualified reception and accommodation system. We must therefore invest and encourage private investment. If we want this sector to remain Italian - as it should be - we need additional space, tax credits and fiscal mechanisms to boost investment. We need to qualify our capacity and our offer if we want to return to growing tourism GDP, which certainly has important growth margins in the coming years. To these dynamics we must unite the investment made on the job, the reforms necessary to reorganize the social shock absorbers and the need to shift resources from assistance to active policies, because we must always be aware that a training income will become decisive, in the coming years, to accompany a new growth, and we will do so through an important reform of the social shock absorbers. All this holds together the decisive elements of the universality of the public health system, with the social and economic strength that distinguishes our country. I believe that, in this dynamic, with the immunity of the flock, with the exit from the pandemic, in the implementation of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan and with the reforms, Italy has all the conditions to emerge from the crisis. [[Applause.]] President. - The debate is closed. I call the minority rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u48	Mr President, in yesterday's minority report, I tried to frame the subject and highlight the initiatives of Brothers of Italy, to improve a decree-law, which certainly does not see us particularly enthusiastic. Instead, we see enthusiasm in the interventions of the majority, which I followed yesterday and today, as if the measure under consideration was really useful to a company or craftsman who receives 2,500 euros on a loss of 50,000 euros. We have also seen enthusiasm for the fact that we have been able to dispose of EUR 770 million in Parliament, out of the EUR 32 billion of the measure, as if this meant restoring centrality to Parliament (as has been said). I would say that EUR 770 million out of EUR 32 billion means very little centrality to Parliament and much centrality to the Government: it seems to me an objective fact. We have seen an enthusiasm perhaps exaggerated for having written, on an agenda, the desired for the next decree-law. This has always happened and is in full and absolute continuity with the decrees of the Count Government, so it was always postponed to a later moment the emanation of the next salvific decree: the name has changed, from ristori to support, but in reality it has always been that modus operandi. This is perhaps a little too much enthusiasm, which not only squeals with the fact that the majority tabled 2,500 amendments, demonstrating that the measure was not particularly pleasing to anyone and not only to the minority of Brothers of Italy, who had tabled about 500 of them. This shrieks above all with the discouragement and discouragement that exists outside this palace, where so many productive categories pay, like all citizens - and not only - the anti-institutional limitations of freedom, such as the absurd curfew, which continues to persist despite there is no scientific evidence that the virus bites more after 22, compared to before. And not only this: they pay for those productive activities that up to now have pulled the cart of this Nation; they also pay for the closures and limitations of their own activity on their skin. I quote two examples: the agritourisms, which were the subject of bipartisan amendments, are the only ones that do not even receive compensation, because their agriturismo activity has not disappeared from the agricultural one. This I think is emblematic of how little attention is paid especially to those categories that fill our canteens and our kitchens with healthy products, typical, and constitute the backbone of that made in Italy that we all fill our mouths with, but that very few, then, try to support in a concrete way. I would like to focus on another aspect of Article 37 which should have set up a fund to allow companies in controlled administration to take advantage of the resources for support. I appeal to Minister D'Incà - I do not see him in the Chamber - and I quote the example Embraco-Acc, who knows perfectly well to have him at home (as in my home). I appeal to the Minister knowing his sensitivity - beyond the internal issues and diatribes of the Government between those who have a more privateistic vision of the solution of the problem and those who, like the previous Government and the Veneto Region, perhaps glimpsed a perspective of strategicity of the Italcomp project - so that we can immediately find a common solution, because today the liquidity that the ACC needs is immediate, and no longer differable. Therefore, beyond the positions of the majority, I hope that to pay the price - as I am sure you, Minister, want to avoid - are not the many workers and above all the many families that around the Acc and Embraco in Piedmont live and work. I believe that the judgment we can give, even after the debate we have heard in this House, is absolutely insufficient, as the measures have been; it is insufficient as the judgements that come from so many categories. We've always been available. I thank the rapporteurs, both Mrs Toffanin and Mr Manca, for the willingness and openness they have had towards the opposition, aware - as we are - that they have always worked not to make our party grow in percentages - although it is objectively a fact of fact also that - but above all with the sole interest, to make this nation grow which we - contrary to perhaps some of you - do not want to see neither suffer nor be enslaved to the European logic of France and Germany. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u49	He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Mr D'Incà. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u50	Mr President, the Government submits to the Presidency, pursuant to Rule 161 (3)-b of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, the text of an amendment, which fully transposes the amending proposals approved by the Joint Commissions, entirely replacing Article 1 of the draft law of conversion of the decree-law in question on which, subject to the permission of the Council of Ministers, it intends to raise the question of trust.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u51	In accordance with Rule 161, paragraph 3-b of the Rules of Procedure, the Presidency reserves the right to evaluate the text of the amendment in accordance with Rules 8 and 97 of the Rules of Procedure. I therefore suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 12.39 p.m. and resumed at 12.59 p.m.) The session is resumed. In the light of the Minister's statement on relations with Parliament, the Presidency shall assess the amendment admissible under Rule 161 (3) (b) of the Rules of Procedure, except in those parts which reproduce the amendments approved by the Joint Commissions which the Presidency is about to declare inadmissible and under the conditions set out below. Amendments 11.7 (text 2) and 21.0.2 are unacceptable. Amendment 36.0.30 (text 4) is available on condition that it is reworded in an additional sense to Article 35 of the Decree-Law. Amendment 39.30 (text 3) is only applicable to Chapters 1-a and 1-c and provided that its application is limited over time, i.e. until the maximum limit of 31 December 2022. Amendment 34.0.56 is proposed in a new rewording and provided that its application is limited over time, i.e. up to the limit of 31 December 2022. Amendment 39.0.66 (text 2) is available on condition that its application is limited over time, i.e. up to the limit of 31 December 2022. He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Mr D'Incà. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u52	Mr President, I welcome the Presidency's remarks, subject to the rewordings proposed by the 5th Commission, which will intervene later. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I raise the question of confidence in the adoption of the amendment entirely replacing the single article of draft law No 2144, conversion to law of Decree-Law No 41 of 22 March 2021.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u53	The Presidency takes note of the question of confidence in the approval of the entirely replacement amendment submitted by the Government and, in accordance with Rule 102a of the Rules of Procedure, forwards the text of the amendment to the 5th standing Commission, which is now authorised to convene. I therefore call on the Conference of Group Presidents to organise the debate on the issue of trust. I note that we will also proceed to sanitization in the meantime. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 13.02 p.m. and resumed at 2.03 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u54	The Conference of Leaders organised work on the question of trust posed by the Government on the amendment entirely replacing the decree-law support. The sitting will resume at 3.30 p.m. or at the end of the session of the Budget Committee to examine the financial profiles of the amendment. For the discussion on confidence, five minutes were allocated for each Group. The final explanations of vote will follow and call it. The Conference of Leaders also approved the timetable for next week's work. Tuesday 11 will be reserved for the work of the Commissions, with particular reference to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs called to examine the decree-law on the containment of the Covid-19 epidemic, vaccinations, justice and public competitions. The debate on the latter measure will begin at the sitting on Wednesday 12 noon, beginning at 10 a.m. On Thursday 13th there will also be the discussion of motions 353 on the restrictions related to the emergency Covid-19 and 349 on the candidacy of Turin for the Universities of 2025. For the discussion of motions, five minutes are provided for each group in the discussion and ten minutes for explanations of vote, in addition to the five minutes allocated for the illustration of motions. Any matching motions must be received by 6 p.m. on Tuesday 11 May. Also on Thursday 13 May, at 3 pm, the question time will take place with the presence of the Ministers of the Interior, economic development and tourism. On Wednesday 12, at 9 a.m., the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into working conditions in Italy, exploitation and safety in public and private workplaces is convened to proceed with its establishment. As I said, the sitting is suspended until 3.30 p.m. or, in any case, until the Committee on Budgets has completed its work.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u55	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting today, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the schedule of proceedings until 13 May: [[Wednesday, May 12, h. 10 - Drawing of law n. 2167 - Decree-Law n. 44, Containment of the Covid-19 epidemic, vaccinations, justice and public competitions (decades on May 31) - Motion n. 353, Ciriani, on restrictions related to the COVID emergency - Motion n. 349, Laus, on the candidacy of Turin to host the Winter Universiade of 2025 - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Regulation (Thursday 13, at 15) Thursday 13 " h. 9,30]] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 2167 (Decree-Law No 44, Covid-19 epidemic, vaccinations, justice and public competitions) (5 hours and 30 minutes, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 20' Government 20' Votes 20' Groups 4 hours and 30 minutes, of which: M5S 49' L-SP-PSd'Az 44' FIBP-UDC 39' Mixed 35'+5' PD 33' FdI 25'+5' IV-PSI 24' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 20' Dissentents 5' (The sitting was suspended at 2.06 p.m. and resumed at 3.30 p.m.).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u56	Colleagues, I must say, with regret, that the opinion of the 5th Commission is not yet available, which normally, in the absence of disagreements, would not need such a long time. They tell me, however, that they will try to deal with and resolve, not before 16.15, the heavy problems that prevent us from speeding up the time. As far as this Presidency is concerned, at 4.15 p.m. is the time limit for the House to wait for an opinion to be delivered within the time set by the Commission itself. I therefore suspend the sitting until 4.15 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 3.30 p.m. and resumed at 4.21 p.m.) Colleagues, we have no comforting news from the Budget Commission, where work is continuing on an opinion that we thought was faster. I am therefore about to postpone the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u59	DE CARLO (FdI). Mr President, Brothers of Italy left the Committee on Budgets almost an hour ago because of its inability to comply with the agreements reached with the opposition; in fact, we left the Commission and its members to look into an amendment that the Accounting Office has made. It is good to know that the delay is probably due to the fact that there is no majority agreement. Parliament's work is therefore slowed down by the fact that the majority, despite an almost Bulgarian consensus, except for my part of the House, still, at a distance of time, gets into an amendment and does not find a square. It is we who have been stuck in the Chamber for over an hour, with constant delays, who pay it. I think it is good to stigmatize this behaviour which is certainly not good for Parliament.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u60	Senator De Carlo, thank you because, if what you have said is true, it explains this delay, otherwise difficult to understand. The Commission therefore calls for further postponement. I have informed the President of the Senate of the repeated request for further referrals. I have asked you to let me know how you feel that the Presidency should move. All I can do right now is postpone the 15-minute sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 4 p.m. and resumed at 4.40 p.m.) Colleagues, I have been informed by the President of the Senate that the Minister for Relations with Parliament has assured us that we will be able to resume work at 5 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u63	DE CARLO (FdI). Mr President, thank you for your patience. Let us consider 17 o'clock as the Piave line, beyond which we are not willing to go. We therefore announce from the outset that, if at 5 p.m. they do not resume the work of the Assembly, we will take up the benches of the Government, as long as we consider it necessary.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u64	It is an unusual announcement, because I have seen these things to the fullest, never announce; but I cannot censor anyone, I take note of it.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u67	CALIENDO (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I believe that at this point a rule of good administration of the management of this House should be to say that it is not serious to arrive with amendments that we will not be able to understand; nor will we be able to understand which parts of the text we are going to vote on is reworded. For this reason, Mr President, I represent you with the need to represent the Government, which perhaps is preferable to postpone everything until Tuesday, so that we can vote consciously on what we are voting on. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u68	It will be my care to report it.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u71	LANNUTTI (Mixed). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business. I too believe that it is more serious for Parliament to be informed and to know what it votes for. As you know, I am no longer in the majority, having been kicked out together with other colleagues on 17 February, for not voting for the trust of President Draghi. I therefore do not speak as an exponent of the majority, being relegated to the Mixed Group. I note, however, that the reason for the dispute (I went to the 5th Commission) concerns the refinancing of the superbonus, i.e. a measure that worked for the recovery of the economy. I would point out that the rule has been expounded by the General Accountant of the State. But who was the former State Accountant? It was Minister Daniele Franco. Then we must find these resources to revive the economy and we cannot accept the discharge. I think we need more serious relations between the government and the senate.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u72	I suspend the sitting until 5 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 4.44 p.m. and resumed at 5 p.m.) Colleagues, I am informed that the 5th Commission has given its opinion and that the Offices, having completed the political process, are only completing the formal procedure (in fact, they are writing the text). Senator De Carlo had asked to intervene. I know that it was the Brothers of Italy who asked for the opinion to be given before the Conference of the Leaders, but that they had no objection if, after the opinion, it had started without the written document. Do you confirm that, Senator De Carlo?
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u73	Mr President, we always have one word. We are certainly not the ones who betray the agreements, so I repeat that we are willing to start, although there is no text, stigmatizing what happened, namely a delay of one and a half hours due only and exclusively to diatribes within the majority, which have even seen us abandon the Commission, given the absolutely unusual behaviour and which certainly strongly harms our parliamentary prerogatives.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u75	About what, Senator? LICHERI (M5S). The order of business. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. LICHERI (M5S). Mr President, it is my duty to explain the reasons why this day has developed so strongly. You all know, colleagues, that the 5 Star Movement is on the side of businesses.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u76	[[Applause. Comments]] We proved it with the superbonus. [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u77	Let Senator Licheri speak, but he must intervene on the order of business. Senator, I remind you.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u78	LICHERI (M5S). Mr President, as I said, we have demonstrated with the building superbonus at 11% and we must demonstrate this in another fundamental step for the revival of the economy, which is the transfer of tax credit... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. However, this is on the substance. On the order of business? LICHERI (M5S). It is right, Mr President, that you should know that what has been done in the Commission we cannot accept. The Movimento 5 Stars does not portray the hand at this moment to the people waiting for the decree supports; but from tomorrow the superbonus, that is, the cedibility of the credits for the transition program... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Licheri, you will speak in an explanation of vote and in the debate. LICHERI (M5S). We're gonna get him back... president. For now, I believe that it should be confined to the order of business. [[Applause. Comments]] LICHERI (M5S). ...on the occasion of the second decree supports. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u79	Thank you for your speech. [[Comments.]] Senator De Bertoldi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so. [[Protests.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u80	Mr President, if I may, I would like to have a moment of silence, because I feel like I am at the market.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u81	Senator De Bertoldi, start talking and you'll see that if you're convincing, they'll listen to you. Please come in. Please, Senator De Bertoldi.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u82	DE BERTOLDI (FdI). Thank you, President. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u83	Please release the hemicycle. Anyone who has no interest in listening to Senator De Bertoldi can go out; the others can settle down. [[Comments]] Dear colleague, if you speak without a microphone, no one listens to you. Please, Senator De Bertoldi. [[Protests.]] Colleagues, you must know what is the intervention on the order of business: it is not to explain what is the content of a measure. Study the Rules of Procedure! [[Protests]] Sit down, you made us wait two hours! [[Happy protests.]] Senator Castaldi, I'm calling you back to order. Please, Senator De Bertoldi.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u84	As you can see, what is happening in this House demonstrates the presence of a majority that is touching, every moment more, the ridiculous. [[Applause. Protests.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u85	It's a political assessment. He said most people are touching the ridiculous. I've heard worse. Senator De Bertoldi, go ahead if you want to talk. I'm sorry, president. I'll call you back for the second time. I see that the Movimento 5 Stars cannot be in the Chamber: in a few minutes I suspend the sitting. [[Protests.]] Please, Senator De Bertoldi, continue. [[Happy protests.]] Senator Santangelo, I'm calling you back to order. Sit down!
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u86	It is regrettable that even the leader of the first party in this Parliament does not know the parliamentary rules and does not know that I am making an intervention on trust, not on the order of business. [[Applause. Protests]] It is truly an offense, not to me, not to my party, but to this Parliament, which you have been profaning for years with your incompetence. [[Happy protests.]] It's a shame! It's not acceptable! You are offending Parliament! Excuse me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u87	Senator De Bertoldi, stop for a second. So, colleagues, Senator De Bertoldi - I'm telling those who didn't understand - is not intervening on the order of business. [[Comments]] Be quiet, partner! Senator De Bertoldi is intervening on the question of trust and is conducting a political intervention in which he can express his views. After that, if a 5 Star Movimento Senator wants to register, it is still in time to do so, instead of protesting because you do not know the Rules of Procedure. [[Repented comments by Senator Santangelo]] What's he saying? You speak Senator De Bertoldi, speak. Senator Santangelo, you are expelled from the Chamber. I'm gonna suspend the session for five minutes. [[Applause]] . (The sitting was suspended at 5.07 p.m. and resumed at 5.11 p.m.) I spoke to President Licheri, who made it clear in turn that the speech was not on the order of business but on the agenda. Senator Santangelo may return before the vote, but in the meantime I thank him for fulfilling the notice he had. ( [[Senator Licheri points out that he wants to intervene).]] Immediately after Senator De Bertoldi, he will speak - this time on the question of trust, if he wishes - Senator Licheri, who will be able to express all his views on the occasion and in the manner provided for in the Rules of Procedure. Senator De Bertoldi, I would also ask you to keep the tones appropriate to the occasion. You can resume your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u88	Mr President, if there is respect, I am the first to give it, of course, as always. In fact, I had concluded this morning's intervention with a wish for transversality and collaboration, which was long awaited and important at such a difficult time for the country and in the interest of all Italians, beyond the factions, parties and political ideologies. Unfortunately, something has happened this afternoon with regard to a fundamental and important amendment. For Brothers of Italy, 24.3 was one of the three fundamental amendments on which to determine political conduct in the budget and finances committees. However, since, as Mr De Carlo said earlier, we are used to having only one word, we expected that, with the same seriousness with which we asked the majority for confidence in three amendments, the agreement taken in the presence and with the agreement of the Government, which we thought had also been verified beforehand by the Accounting Office as to the possibility of being concluded. We were therefore certain that there could be no jokes and that the agreement on the maxi amendment on which the question of trust was placed would clearly be respected, containing one of the basic amendments of the understanding between the majority and the Brothers of Italy, which is the opposition left in this Parliament. Mr President, this is not the case and what is worse is that this amendment, which wanted to guarantee flexibility, is being undermined and that, at a time of great difficulty for our territories, the regions were not rigidly forced to use the funds for expenditure with precise and detailed items, but that the Presidents of the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces could use the money that the various emerging decrees had given for the needs that they were appaling at the moment. I would also like to give an example, because citizens must understand, by quoting the case of when resources have been allocated, by the emerging decrees, for the recruitment of health workers. Well, if there wasn't time for the competition and the opportunity to use those funds immediately, but the health care staff needed to be employed, we had to resort to that of the interim agencies, because it was necessary to have the people who served work in the clinics and hospitals, in an emergency. With this amendment, which concerns most of the Italian regions, we have therefore asked to ensure that that money, which could not be spent rigidly on recruitment, could, for example, be spent on using that healthcare staff temporarily. This also applies to other issues, such as protective equipment, medicines or sanitisation. In essence, did we want that money, destined to respond to the Covid, to remain unused, not for a will to do so, but why is it not possible to spend it differently? Mr President, I therefore believe that, in the face of an act of responsibility of our party, which has tried to respond to the needs of the Italian regions, which are also those of the Italian people, by offering answers to the citizens in an immediate and unbounded way, there should be consistency. In conclusion, we have had the pleasure of reaching agreement in the Commission and we acknowledge that the majority and the Government have found it, but this afternoon we have found the surprise. Mr President, it is not acceptable and we condemn it, with great force and with a great appeal to the sense of seriousness of all of us. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u89	He's enlisted to speak Senator Licheri. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u90	Mr President, I apologise: I can now represent more calmly the difficulties that Movimento 5 Stars encountered today. I used to say how the decree-law under consideration looks at businesses, workers, families and citizens. There is no doubt - the thought is shared by everyone, so it is not only a flag of the 5 Star Movement - that at this moment our companies need liquidity and the way and instrument through which they can have it is the transfer of credits. There's no other system. [[Applause]] At this moment it is the only measure that could allow our companies to re-launch and re-launch our economic fabric. Now we have to start looking beyond support and subsidies: we absolutely have to do so, but we have to look to the future. We noted that, between yesterday's evening and today's morning, the amendment concerning the transferability of corporate tax credits for the sale of capital goods under the Transition 4.0 plan met with the contrary opinion of the State's General Accounting Office. However, we must be aware that this is the only measure, as well as for almost philosophical considerations, I dare say, because the Movimento 5 Stars of the sale of credits has made a political reason, being the only instrument that allows companies to have money today and not promises for money that will come tomorrow. [[Applause]] That's why I went over it a while ago, because it's necessary to do it. Mr President, in thanking you for giving me the floor, I conclude by saying that tomorrow we will start a table, because that amendment begins its path that leads to the decree-law support- bis. We will interrogate and have had important guarantees from the Government so that the issue is not shelved; there is the decree support- bis, that we hope arrives in the Senate, and we hope that we can approve this anticyclical measure, for the economy of our country.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u91	Senator Licheri, it's all clear and also very shared; perhaps there was no need to get too excited.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u92	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u94	Mr Urso (FdI). Mr President, I would like to say a few words about what happened to two Italian fishing vessels a few minutes ago - according to agency reports. I would like to ask the government what happened, precisely, and if at the end of the sitting it can give us some more information than we receive from agencies. Mr President, it seems that the Libyan Coast Guard has shot two Italian fishing vessels, injuring one of the commanders. This episode is particularly serious, because we all remember that, a few months ago, some Italian fishermen were seized and held hostage - in that case in Benghazi - and we know well what this has meant to our Government. That the fact has been repeated - indeed, it seems that there are wounded on board - is, in my opinion, particularly serious, because we all wonder where the Italian Navy is.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u95	Senator Urso, we will report your speech to the government if you decide to intervene at the end of the day.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u96	Senator Gallone is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u97	Mr President, in the spirit of sharing that has characterized the work to date, and since Forza Italia speaks with the facts, I ask for permission to hand over the text of my speech. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u98	The Presidency authorizes it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u99	She's registered to speak Senator Rivolta. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u100	Mr President, I will not use all the time, but I would just like to draw the whole House to the gravity of the moment. We are dealing with the adoption of a decree-law that is more than a budget maneuver. There is a great deal of urgency; in the 5th Commission we have done some thorough work, but the fact remains that the issues contained in the three articles removed from the General Accounting Office - whose third-party status certainly cannot be called into question - are priorities for all political groups. On this we have all interloquited with the Undersecretary Durigon, who has guaranteed that the interlocution will continue, just so that these three issues can be addressed in the decree-law supports two or in any case they can find a formalization that allows the approval of the Accountant of the State, the adequacy of the coverages and the sustainability of the amending proposal. These are three fundamental issues, the first of which concerns the regions (which Mr De Bertoldi spoke of), but those on the transfer of credit and type B cooperatives are amendments that impact incredibly important on the lives of companies, cooperatives and workers. It remains a priority and I think that we have all made a commitment today to concentrate, so that a solution can be found. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u101	He's enlisted to speak Senator Crucioli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u102	Mr President, in the text that we are about to vote, not only the superbonus for companies has been removed, which allowed the transferability of tax credits, which companies could have converted into money, after purchasing capital goods for technological innovation, but also all those instruments which, likewise, allowed the transferability of credits. The cedibility of the credits for the purchase of furniture and household appliances has been removed, which had instead been approved with an amendment to the first signature Mininno, signed by all the representatives of L'Alternativa C'è, and also for all those works for the construction of boxes and parking spaces: these credits could also be transferred, but they have been expunged, also to the superbonus for the enterprises. I note, therefore, that for the Members of the Movimento 5 Stars, the cedibility of credit has been conceived as a political issue in order to go towards the fiscal currency, which, in our opinion, is something fundamental for this country, but you must note that, after what happened today, this Government does not want to go towards the creation of a fiscal currency and has said it clear and round in that opinion of the Accounting Office. In addition to this, there is neither the impregnability of citizenship income, nor the amendment that we had proposed for the creation of a contribution of solidarity by politicians, regional councillors, senior executives and all those who have not been touched by the crisis and especially by those who have increased their profits with the Covid-19, that is, the colossus of the web and all those who have gained huge gains from this crisis, managing the IT platforms for online purchases. All this has been taken away, but instead there is the pardon. There are gifts, increasing funds for local broadcasters, and purchases for riot uniforms. In light of this, I ask my colleagues in the Movimento 5 Stars: did you realize with whom you set out to govern? Have you understood that this Government does absolutely not do the policies that you want, but only what interests big business and finance, and not the citizens? If you have understood this (and today it seems to me that some of you have understood this), start to vote against and not to say tomorrow, but from today! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u103	I declare closed the debate on the question of trust posed by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u104	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u106	CONZACTS (IV-PSI). Mr President, I have a brief speech on the order of business. I agree with the importance of the measure, which we voted and supported strongly in the Commission, but I must stress another aspect. The General Accounting Office of the State is a technical body, third, to which we owe all respect and to which we must refer. We appreciate the commitment of the Government that has made itself available to open a speech to resolve the technical issues that exist and that the Accounting Office has raised. So let's try to keep everything together. That is the spirit of the Government that we are supporting and I would like to see the conditions in which we have worked in the Budget Committee not repeated in the last hour.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u107	Colleagues, we should now proceed to the explanations of vote, but, in fact, we do not have the measure yet. Therefore, since it appears to me that at the meeting of the group presidents it was agreed to hold the debate, but there was no talk of being able to make explanations of vote, if there is only one of the group leaders who does not agree to begin explanations of vote in the absence of the precise text (which has been fired, but which we have not yet), I would ask him to take the floor. If one doesn't agree, I'll suspend the session.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u108	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u110	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, of course, as you said, if all the group leaders agree, we can proceed with the explanations of vote. This, however, clearly depends on all the Leaders, because we know that the decision needs unanimity. If anyone does not agree, what is decided at the Conference of Leaders must be respected. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. That's right, and that's why I asked if anyone disagrees.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u111	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u113	DE CARLO (FdI). Mr President, we were quite clear, even at the Conference of Leaders, that we could start the debate, convinced - as we were - that the measure would come. It is quite another thing to make explanations of vote without having seen a rag of action. We are waiting for him to arrive in the Chamber, and then we are going to start explanations of vote. It seems to me much more fair and fair to the whole House, not only for the majority, but also for those who, like us, do not vote. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u114	It's clear. Moreover, I have asked President Alberti Casellati, who does not want to create a precedent in this direction even in the presence of unanimity and therefore - especially in the absence of unanimity - asks me to suspend the sitting. Senator Pesco, how long do you think it takes? PESCO (M5S). At least 20 or 30 minutes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The sitting is suspended and will resume at 6 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 5.30 p.m. and resumed at 6.30 p.m.) Since there are no Secretary Senators, the Presidency reads the opinion of the 5th Parliamentary Commission: "The Economic Programming Commission, budget, examined the amendment of the Government 1,9000, relating to the draft law in title, transmitted by the Assembly, noted: the reassurance of the Government according to which the district of the temporal scope of amendments 39.30 (text 3), 39.0.56 (text 2), 39.0.66 (text 2), requested as a condition for the proposability of such amending proposals, does not have adverse effects on public finance; with specific reference to amendment 39.30 (text 3), paragraph 1-c, the current wording, which defines its temporal application to 31 December 2021, nevertheless appears to comply with the condition of proposability; expresses, as far as it is competent, opinion not precluded by the following conditions, formulated in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution: "Article 1-b, Article 1-c, paragraph 3-a of Article 24, paragraph 11-G of Article 30 and Article 40-b of the Treaty, Article No. "The abovementioned Commission shall consist of nine members with appropriate requirements of competence, independence, good repute and probity" shall be replaced by the following: "The Commission shall consist of a number of members not exceeding 14, who shall have appropriate requirements of competence, independence, good repute and probity. The expenditure limit, for the year 2021, of 1,2 million euros provided for in article 1, paragraph 501, of the aforementioned law n. 145 of 2018.'; - in Article 12-a, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: "1. In order to guarantee separate or divorced workers to parents, who, as a result of the epidemiological emergency from COVID-19 have ceased, reduced or suspended their work, the possibility of providing the maintenance allowance, is established at the Ministry of Economy and Finance for the subsequent transfer to the autonomous budget of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers a fund with a budget of 10 million euros for the year 2021"; - in Article 18-a, paragraph 1, after the words: "in concert" are inserted the following: "with the Ministry of Economy and Finances and"; - in Article 19-a, paragraph 1, the following words are deleted: ", as refinanced by Article 41"; - in Article 26, paragraph 1, the words: "Passenger transport undertakings operating in the non-scheduled public transport sector", wherever they occur, are replaced by the following: "companies carrying passengers by buses covered under Law No 218 of 11 August 2003,"; - in Article 30-F, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: "3. To the burdens deriving from the implementation of the paragraphs 1 and 2, pairs to 1,350,000 euros for the year 2022 and to 675,000 euros for the year 2023, the corresponding reduction of the fund referred to in article 1, paragraph 200, of the law 23 December 2014 n. 190"; - to article 33, the paragraphs 2-c and 2-d are replaced by the following: "2-c. For the purposes referred to in paragraph 2-a, the ordinary financing fund referred to in Article 5 (1) (a) of Law No 537 of 24 December 1993 is increased by EUR 61.6 million for 2021. 2-d. To the burden deriving from the paragraphs from 2-a to 2-c, pairs to 61,6 million euros for the year 2021, it is provided as far as 60 million euros through correspondent reduction of the Fund referred to in article l, paragraph 200, of the law 23 December 2014, n. 190, as refinanced by article 41 of this decree and as for 1,6 million euros through correspondent reduction of the Fund referred to in article l, paragraph 200, of the law 23 December 2014, n. 190." The opinion was also made with the following comment: - the Coord amendment. Art. 2, paragraph "Art. 1), the following should be inserted after the words ""comma": "599." Does the Government intend to accept the opinion of the Budget Commission?
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u115	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u116	We proceed to the vote on amendment 1,9000 (correct text), tabled by the Government, entirely replacing the single article of the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 41 of 22 March 2021 on the approval of which the Government raised the question of trust.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u117	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u119	STEGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, the effort made with this measure is very important, which is above all a qualitative leap in identifying the categories and criteria for the provision of resources. First of all - and it is worth remembering - the Ateco codes are archived to introduce the principle of turnover losses. This is a step forward, even if the reference period does not adequately take into account those companies that did not collect a single euro in the first quarter of 2021. I understand the concern about bureaucratic delays, but there is a large audience that will receive aid that does not correspond to actual losses. This regret is offset by the announcement by Minister Franco, who, on our proposal, has undertaken to introduce soon a new reference period in order to adequately compensate companies that have suffered serious losses even with the new year. It is partly offset by the good work done in the Commission, which has introduced improvements and enriched the text; for this reason I thank the Presidents of the Commission Pesco and Alfonso and I thank the representatives of the Government, first of all the Deputy Minister Castelli, and the staff of MEF and of State Accounting. It is yet another confirmation of the value of parliamentary work and the way in which, through comparison, measures can be built closer to the needs of families and businesses. I am thinking of the measures on fixed costs, from the first IMU instalment to the cancellation of the public land occupation tax, the interventions on the RAI fee and the Irpef for rents not received. I am thinking of the rules on freelance professionals, including the suspension of sanctions for non-compliance with diseases, but also the extension of IRAP, the protection of loans and the maintenance allowance for separate parents, the consolidation of the resources for spa tourism, the non-refundable contributions for tourist buses. You can continue with the 40 million for ski instructors, with the important resources for the lifts, with 230 million for the economic mountain operators in the overall chapter of the reorganization of the interventions on the snow supply chain. It is really a question of many measures and a massive intervention, which also sees the acceptance of a series of our proposals for traineeships and the strengthening of extracurricular activities in our territories, the correction of the regulatory hole on the CIGO and the extension of the IGC, the bureaucratic simplifications for the access to contributory exemptions by companies and agricultural enterprises. It is also important to remember the other measures, which have not been subject to particular changes, but which are the pillars of the measure: from the refinancing of social shock absorbers to the package of aid for VAT consignments, to the resources for hoteliers and places of culture, for thermal workers, for amateur sport, for agriculture, for firefighters, and the very important fund to ensure the functioning of local authorities. Mr President, these billions represent a further stage in securing social stability and accompanying our production system in the post-pandemic period. We all know the gravity of the situation and we know that this will not be the last intervention, that we will soon need another budgetary deviation and that we are in a path that continually renews its challenges. In this sense, it is very important the majority agenda that already introduces the issues that will have to be addressed in the discussion of the Decree support- bis: 100 million additional resources to support the mountain chain, a massive intervention in favour of seasonal workers who no longer enjoy any form of social amortization, access to credit, moratoria guarantees extended at the end of the year for companies, credit for rent tax, exemption of contributory charges for culture and entertainment, the reduction of Tari for companies. I hope that this will be part of a review of the periods I mentioned earlier, but I also hope that there will be a reflection on what will be our economy once we get out of the pandemic. These fourteen months have shaken the foundations of our economic system, bringing to light limits and delays, but in many cases also a great ability to resist and adapt to the new phase. It would, however, be a mistake to consider the pandemic as a parenthesis. We are in a leap of time, which opens up to unprecedented challenges, as the European Union has well understood with the missions linked to the plan, and which will also require a leap in thinking about the world of work and the production system. Leaving the pandemic - I quote President Draghi - will not be like rekindling the light; some economic activities will have to change, even radically. That is why we need to work on the combination of flexibility and social security, making the labour market more dynamic and strengthening social cushions. That is, we will have to imagine a more agile field within a perimeter where the presence of the State continues to be felt. That is, we will have to define with ever greater clarity the model of country towards which we want to strive starting, and not finishing, from the projects of the recovery fund. I therefore announce the Group's vote in favour of the measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u120	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u122	CONZACTS (IV-PSI). Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot actually express my jubilation, like some of the speeches I have heard on this measure, except on condition that from now on we all work here for growth. Today, thanks to the Dragon Government and the vaccination campaign of General Son, there are the conditions to work finally on economic growth and development, to develop demand, public investment and private investment, and that is exactly what Parliament should occupy. But we're still on the stand. I am not saying that this measure is not important: it certainly is. Tamponing the economy, at such a difficult stage, to avoid failures is a prerequisite for restarting, but it is not a sufficient precondition; it is simply a necessary precondition. It was therefore certainly necessary to help companies in difficulty with the integration fund for employees, with the IGC, and to extend these measures also to start-ups, as we did in the conversion phase. Just as important was helping the most affected sectors, such as tourism and catering, trying to repeal taxes, taxes, fees, as we did with the RAI fee, with the first installment of the IMU and with the occupation of public spaces. A measure, the latter, important when restaurants can leave, can start working again so that they have to benefit from this measure. The intervention on the mountain is also important. I have lived several years in the mountains and I know that losing all the winter season means losing 90 of the turnover. For hotels, planters, ski instructors in this and in the next measure there will be a lot of attention. We have worked on the sectors so far excluded from the various measures, which have always been those who have enriched the pleasant moments of our life: I am thinking of tourism, fairs, amateur sports clubs. I think of the tax credit on culture, an extraordinary sector that to this extent has the seed to be able to restart. And then I think of the local televisions, which have made information of proximity, keeping company with the people locked in the house and reassuring them. Many other areas will be adhered to in the next decree-law, as we have written on the agenda presented as a majority and recommended to the Government. So yes, I certainly believe that this was an important measure, but I do not share the celebrations for two reasons. First of all, because these two pieces, the decree-law supports and the decree-law supports bis, are placed in a macroeconomic framework that still remains very fragile, everything to be redesigned and to be transformed according to what we have written in the PNRR, but that is to be brought to the ground. Secondly, because 32 billion plus 40 billion is an important net debt and we cannot be satisfied that we gladly redistribute resources in debt. This is a cultural message that I personally do not share, a message of economic policy that should be exactly the opposite: we should economically say that we generate resources and then redistribute them. This is a given condition, in which expansive politics is simply obliged, but we cannot please or even get used to it. Maybe not all of us, but we have very much in mind what we voted in the DEF fifteen days ago. The DEF has told us three very important things about net debt, debt-to-GDP ratio and GDP. On net debt he told us that today it is 11.8% and that it will only be 3% in 2025, so two years after the re-introduction of the Stability and Growth Pact. We all know what that means. On the debt-to-GDP ratio at 159.8%, he told us that, yes, there will be a return path and that in ten years we will return to the huge level of debt-to-GDP ratio that we had before the Covid-19. This means that even in ten years' time Italy will not have the tools to cope with a certainly not desired one, but in any case to predict from the economic point of view, new crisis. The DEF told us, again, that we will monitor the debt-to-GDP ratio with growth; however, even the National Recovery and Resilience Plan does not reassure us enough from this point of view. We know that there will be a rebound in 2021 of 4.5 or 4.8 percent, but that already from 2023 we will return to have a growth rate of less than 2%. I say that this growth rate is too low, even if we consider it conservative; it is too low to imagine reducing debt with this instrument and to say that the PNRR will really make a difference just because there are EUR 248 billion. I don't want to be a pessimist. I too am very happy to join the choir of those who look forward to seeing the stars. However, by nature and by political attitude, I like to be very realistic and I feel very reassured by the fact that I am not the only one: I listened the other day to the words of Mr Colao, who said that PNRR funds are a condition, but I am certainly not a guarantee of success. He gave a message to all of us in this House (and what happened only a couple of hours ago is particularly emblematic): he told us that the real challenge is the transformation of Italy; the real challenge is resources, otherwise Italy does not succeed. To do all this we need cohesion in this House, we need to work together to fuel the one thing that really makes the difference, that is knowledge and skills, to use the means that can bring the PNRR, which is public administration, to the ground. Public administration also faces a challenge to be partners: fewer formal ex ante controls, more ex post controls. We have to let the initiatives go, the investments go. Therefore, in order to vote in favour of this measure of mere spending, after a year of measures in deficit, and in order not to feel particularly superficial, we must guarantee each other in this House that, from now on, we will work to reform, to transform, to create value, that is, wealth, to create jobs. [[Applause]] From this point of view Italy Viva-PSI can guarantee its maximum commitment, as a reformist party as it is. There are times, Mr President, when it is worth thinking and acting against the current. As Saint Augustine said, just is right even if no one is doing it, and wrong (as contenting to spend debt) is wrong even if everyone is doing it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u123	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u125	Mr Calandrini (FdI). Mr President, we are here today to express a vote of confidence on a measure against which Brothers of Italy has never hidden its dissatisfaction. This is also demonstrated by the attitude, which I would venture to call shameful, which has been in this House at this time, but also by the competent Commissions, where things have actually been seen, in this first part of the legislature, which I had never noticed. Although we are aware of the inadequacy of this decree-law, which does not convince us for any reason, as an opposition we did not want to hinder the parliamentary path to the sound of obstructionism, but, as a responsible opposition which we are, both in the Budget Committee and in the Finance Committee, which have worked on this measure, we have given the greatest willingness to try to help improve the text. We are pleased that this institutional correctness of ours has been recognized bipartisanly by all the political forces present in this Parliament. Without prejudice to our opposition to this decree-law, it is an opposition that we want to highlight both in the method and in the substance. This Parliament is becoming so irrelevant that even a few minutes ago, at the end of the debate on the vote of confidence, it was thought that it could put this measure to the vote without the text coming to the presidency of the Senate. We believe that this decree-law is in complete continuity with the previous decrees; therefore the Government Count who preceded us is in continuity with the current Government Dragons. Therefore, I would also like to deny the rapporteurs, in particular the majority rapporteur, who began by saying that there is a clear gap from the past. Why do I say this in the method? We were deluded that we could arrive at a measure, as the Government had anticipated, with three parliamentary readings and without a vote of confidence, as we were told. Instead, we have come up against yet another decree that will be armored here in the Senate, on which the question of trust was raised a few hours ago, and clearly also in the House of Deputies. This is the confirmation that parliamentary democracy for this Government, as for the previous one, has become an optional rather than a constitutional dictation. As for the merit, the decree supports, like the various decrees ristori 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5, it does not support and refresh absolutely nothing, in spite of its name, and only postpones the economic recovery of the country to always future decrees waiting for approval. We said from the outset that this decree was not enough for companies, exhausted by thirteen months of epidemic and many restrictions. But how can we think, President, of compensating a company by giving it, at best, 5% of the losses it has suffered in a whole year? Was it worth these contributions, President? Parliament could possibly not give this contribution, because today companies are asking us to reopen and not to have the alms we give today with this decree, as many of my colleagues have said, that at most, when it is okay, comes to EUR 2,500-3,000 for every company that has suffered losses for thirteen months. Otherwise, with the way in which we are moving forward, we will not only need a support-a decree, which, as we know next week, will be approved by the Council of Ministers, but we will need many other decrees and deviations that Parliament will have to make. And these restrictions of yours have become anachronistic and even more severe than just the past year. In practice, as the proverbs say, it was better when you thought you were worse, because at least last year - if we remember - at the end of the lockdown, which was May 18, 2020 (so it would be in a couple of weeks), there was no curfew, there were no crazy restrictions of restaurants open only in the outdoor areas; there was no claim to continue to keep swimming pools and gyms closed in excess. And you know what happened at the end of the lockdown before the summer? Nothing. We met in the summer, the cases of contagion had remained low, although there were no restrictive measures that we had today and that we all know. Then we wonder: why, when we have such an impressive vaccination campaign, which is going well in these last few days (and we are clearly very happy about this), do you continue to impose these measures that are not restrictive, but even punitive? Therefore, we of Brothers of Italy reaffirm our line. There is no better support than to allow reopenings; certainly, reopenings made in safety and with protocols even rigid, but reopenings that are no longer postponed. The government must take responsibility for doing this, because it sees, President, if you do not do this, someone will have to take responsibility for the closures for the activities that are dying day after day. And we believe that we cannot continue to postpone it. In these days in the Commissions - as I said before - you have told us everything and more, that everything that did not enter this decree - is now a litany that we have heard for more than a year - would enter the next. This is always said and now we wait for everything to happen through the National Recovery and Resilience Plan and I want to waste a few minutes of my time on this because the issue is very important. The National Plan cannot be entrusted with the care of all the evils of the nation. Of course, the National Plan is an opportunity that will no longer be there; it is a challenge with history; it is an appointment to which our country must be found ready and that is the point. But reforms are needed, otherwise there will be no recovery; there will be no funding and no investment. Without the reforms there will be no results that have been set out in the Plan. We need to reform the physicist, public administration and justice, otherwise the National Recovery and Resilience Plan will also be destined to remain a dream book. Since the guidelines are not even familiar with these reforms, we fear that the real National Recovery and Resilience Plan will still be rewritten. Turning to the work we have done in the Commission with regard to the amendments, I am thinking of the few amending proposals that we have managed to get approved which concern the overall good of the country. I would like to thank Senator De Bertoldi for the postponement of the terms relating to compliance in case of Covid disease for professionals. For the first time in national history not only employees, but also professionals will have the chance to get sick without having big problems. I am also thinking of the amendment which extends the work on the security of the territory, the hydrogeological failure of the municipalities and, in particular, of the small municipalities. Thanks to one of our amendments, there was the postponement of the deadline that allowed the municipalities to recover the millions of euros that the government had granted them with old measures. The amendment on mountain workers of my colleagues La Pietra and De Carlo will allow a fairer allocation of resources between the different ski resorts. They are all answers to topical issues. President. - I shall start with the conclusions. There is still little that I have told you about and, that is, the amendments that have been confirmed. There is a social emergency that is inside the rib of our country, made of small and medium-sized enterprises, that risks to overwhelm us all if they close forever. For this reason, consistent as always, we cannot give confidence to the Government and, therefore, the vote of Brothers of Italy on the conversion into law of the decree will be contrary. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u126	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u127	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u128	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, authoritative representatives of the Government, my fellow senators, this is the first real measure that this Government has taken. This is an important measure. We appreciated the method, the correct approach, the serious and concrete confrontation in the interest of the country. I extend a special thanks to the speakers who have worked so hard to find useful solutions for our country. I address Senator Missa, Senator Toffanin, but also Presidents Pesco and D'Alfonso, who have handled the work on this sensitive measure well. It is an ideal bridge because the budget deviation was voted with the previous Government. We identified with Minister Gualtieri the necessary funds because we had obviously realized the dramatic situation of our country. We needed to find new resources. It was very difficult at the time. We have all done so together, and the House on that occasion had the opportunity to demonstrate responsibility, which I have not always seen, even in this debate. It was January when the budget deviation was voted. Then there was the government crisis. We have wasted time and we must apologize to the Italians. Italians have difficulty understanding the slowness of the mechanisms of politics: there has been a crisis, they have lost two months and now we must recover. But the contribution is real and positive and the Senate has given - in my opinion - a great contribution, accurate and intelligent, with the availability put by the government in our hands. Measures have been approved, which have enriched the measure in a substantial way. It is said that Parliament loses its days by tipping, but that is not the case. Parliament has had the opportunity to listen to the Italians and their difficulties, those who suffer and have lived and are experiencing the crisis on their own, those who risk their jobs and must fight every day to defend their enterprise. And we have done it with great care, achieving important results. I am thinking, for example, of the exemption of the first instalment of the IMU, the suspension of the public land occupation tax until the end of the year, or the exemption of the Irpef on rents not received, and the extension of the IRAP to 30 November is also very important. Certainly this will not be an exhaustive and sufficient measure to accompany us out of the crisis. We have made available the resources to deal with the very difficult and still complicated issue of the virus and the pandemic and all that was necessary to proceed with the purchase and an efficient and effective vaccination campaign, which is now starting to give important and concrete results. Madam President, for us there is only one policy that leads to the interest of our country, which consists of more coordinated and central actions and makes us hope for a better future. Of course, there is the issue of the containment of the virus and vaccinations and the policy of reopenings, which must be constant and careful, must proceed quickly, but have attention to public health, because we cannot afford to have second thoughts or measures that would affect all the efforts made so far. Then there is the aid and support for businesses, for Italians, for citizens, for workers and for all those in difficulty, until the structural reforms that Parliament will soon have to implement. Finally, there is the recovery plan, the National Recovery and Resilience Plan (PNRR), as a great and unrepeatable opportunity to relaunch. Then there will be the next decree-law. We have worked from a system perspective and we have been thinking today and speeding up the measures. We are pleased that the first substantial aid to workers and businesses has already arrived with this measure, which was adopted as a decree-law. We have enriched him, but we know that it will not be enough and the government is already ready. I believe that in the coming days, at the latest next week, there will be the new EUR 40 billion measure. It's not just about money: we have to defend our production system [[Applause]] and the holding of our ability to give and distribute wealth. We have therefore asked and obtained, as a Democratic Party and with all the forces of majority, a broad and consistent reasoning that looks forward. And we have done so with the parliamentary instruments that are available and, therefore, with the precise commitments that the Government has made with us, with Parliament and therefore with Italy as a whole. I would like to remind you of the tax credit for commercial rentals, the exemption of Tari, the greater resources for municipalities and families in economic difficulties. We are dealing with the psychological discomfort of children, which is a relevant issue, which we have put forward and which we intend to carry forward and to make appropriate support also in economic terms. Let us not forget the investments, for example on the Italian tourism system, which today struggles to restart, but which will undoubtedly also need investments facilitated by our country system. So, support 1 and support 2; time has now become a variable relevant to the future of our country. We are forced to ask our government to do quickly, to do well and to do everything necessary to allow us to seize and take up the challenge of the future. In this general context, with Decree-Law Supports 2 we will come to make operational - also thanks to the advances that President Draghi has obtained - the recovery plan. The debate has been thorough, careful. We had to put all the weight on the authority of our Government and the President-in-Office of the Council so that we could proceed as quickly as possible. I have to say that the Senate, except for a few episodes - including today's ones - has given proof and ability to compare. I appreciate the contribution that has come from all parties in the majority. Many amendments which had specific aims, all of which were justified, have been included in the text. I believe that the concord we have shown in the work of amendment during these difficult days can be an example. It takes responsibility, it takes love for our country. We must be clear about what the common good is. I say this to all of us: we simply cannot afford to use measures as important as this for our country to look at surveys and make tactical choices. [[Applause]] We only have to think about the future of Italy. Madam President, in conclusion, management of the health emergency and above all vaccinations to be done well and quickly; progressive reopenings in safety to be ready for the summer season, without fear; openness to international tourism, as Draghi has shown to want strongly; defense of the enterprises, all the enterprises, with all the possible instruments; support to the private and public investments, also with incentives; immediate launch of the decree-law supports 2; departure of the recovery plan; ecological and digital transformation. Here's what we're working for: an Italy that starts again, greener, more modern, more just, that doesn't fear the future on the economic, on the social front and - why not? - on rights, too, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]] The season of love for our national community never dies. The PD confirms the vote in favour and trust in our Government. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u129	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u130	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u131	Errani (Misto-Leu-Eco). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, on this rather complex day I would like to start with some good news: the Biden administration has taken a fundamental position on the suspension of patents on vaccines. It's a strategic fact. [[Applause]] That's what we fought for. The Senate has delivered important opinions in this direction. I am very pleased that Draghi has taken a position in this direction today. We must ask Europe to take the same position at the next World Trade Organisation meeting. Together with all the groups - I too thank the Presidents of the Commissions and the rapporteurs - we have done a work which is not simple but important; it is a work of two fundamental points. The first is what we have succeeded in incorporating into the decree, which is not exhaustive, as neither will the Decree Supports 2, but certainly gives answers. The first instalment IRAP, the mountain issue, TOSAP and COSAP, the issue of the RAI canon, the issue of professionals, the issue of fees not received in favour of those owners who, in this way, will not have to pay taxes, rightly: they are some important issues, but we have also done something more. Since I have listened to some speeches in general discussion, which have explained, understandably, the pride of the party on this or that choice, I emphasize that - we understand - perhaps never as on this occasion all the Groups, even the opposition of the Brothers of Italy, have found together a true harmony: not a mediation, but a true harmony. Since the discussion on Decree Supports 2 will take place in the House, it is very important what we have achieved on decisive issues such as tax credit for commercial rents, seasonal work and holes that still exist on seasonal work (agriculture, tourism, entertainment) and for what concerns discontinuous jobs, cyclical jobs, so-called invisible workers. On these issues and on others, also mentioned by other colleagues, there is a commitment, a new pact that we have made with the Government. We also wanted to mark the Decree Supports 2. If there had not been this relationship with the Government, I would not have been convinced - for example - not to put the tax credit for commercial rentals at the center of the categories that are paying more than all the others the price of the crisis and lockdown. We did. I would point out, however, for intellectual honesty, that we had already decided, approving the decrees 1, 2, 3 and 4, that the Ateco codes were not the right instrument and that it was necessary to go not on the month, but on the year. There are still a few issues that I would like to raise. For me the Decree Supports 2 has to deal with three problems, in addition to those that the Government has already said it will deal with. The first problem is that of equalization. There is a problem of equalization between companies and subjects: some have taken more and others have taken less. Moreover, those that have taken less often are those enterprises that have paid the highest price: trade, catering, tourism, culture and the whole system of the induced of culture; therefore equalization for those enterprises, such as the canteens and cleaning companies, that are in the impossibility today - it is absurd - to use the Cassa Integrazione, because they are derived from the contract of another enterprise. These holes need to be solved. Then, there is the issue of how we govern the issue of dismissals. We had asked for the block to be extended until next October for all types of business. This issue remains in the field and we must deal with it. Then there is one point that I would like to stress, concerning our clear and determined opposition to the choice of pardon. We use the words of President Draghi: it is a pardon and it is a very serious mistake for the message we give to Italians, which is rewarding to those who do not have a fiscal loyalty. We could have done so many things and some of them we had proposed: delete the folders of those who failed, the dead and those who are actually in difficulty, and do a job of debt coating and give more time to companies to deal with this issue. We did the opposite. In fact, not us, but the government, wrong, did the opposite. We even delete the folders even in favour of those who, with the scrap-b and balance and excavation, had already agreed to pay. This transaction costs us 666 million euros in a few years; resources that we could have given to those companies and those professionals who have paid a very high price and who instead see themselves mocked. I want to raise a problem. There must be a careful review of the report by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance. The collection must be reformed in order to ensure that those who are discovered to evade taxes pay what is right. Otherwise, the relationship of citizenship between Italians and this Republic will always be in crisis and will become a democratic problem. Attention: we have done a good job, but there is still a lot to do. We will have a chance to discuss the reforms that are at the turn of this country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u132	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u133	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u134	Gasparri (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, we are asking the Government for a Mourinho-style triplet, since it has returned to fashion. Triplete cannot be footballing, but it must be based on success with vaccines (which we are recording) and with money (which we are hoping for). A few weeks ago President Draghi said that in times like this money is given, not taken. The third objective is that of openings: the opening hours, the gyms, the wedding - we could call it marriage, instead of otherwise - the swimming pools and many other activities that await answers, without forgetting the labor of catering, commerce and others. We have had more Son, less others. Even a Roman, Bertolaso, has made the Milanese in vaccines faster. [[Applause]] In general, the opposite happened, while it was a Roman who speeded up a region that we all admire for its known efficiency. We have worked very hard on this measure and I will not repeat that we will need other measures, as many have already said. The rapporteur, Mrs Toffanin, belongs to our Group and I would like to thank her, without taking anything away from the other rapporteur, Senator Manca, for working hard to reaffirm the centrality of Parliament. The centrality of Parliament is also the difficulties that have occurred this afternoon, the centrality is also the fatigue of what is there, what is going to be there and what should have been there. So we see that on TOSAP, on COSAP, on the block of the IMU there have been important decisions and also allowed us of the Forza Italia Group to claim the interventions that we too have promoted, with our amendments on cities of art and villages, safe roads and the Armed Forces. You have to remember the Armed Forces when you have to put your hand on the wallet. [[Applause]] In this regard, I would like to thank Minister Brunetta, who announced just now the opening of the contractual renewal for the security-defense sector on 14 May. Furthermore, we have tabled amendments for sports clubs, for the extension of the delegations to 31 December 2023 for sport, on funds for local broadcasting, on health interventions, on corporate welfare, on the single erarial levy (Preu), on vaccination priorities for cancer patients in follow-up. Today we also wanted to emphasize the role of the cross-rosses, with an ad hoc intervention. Other proposals related to the contribution for tourist buses, the payment of the single fee which is cancelled for damaged tourist activities, the intervention on public housing establishments, concerning VAT and the recognition of ecobonus, interventions relating to the IMU, agricultural machinery, institutions dealing with blind people, action on municipal sports facilities, interventions on non-profit startups, which Senator Damiani, the mountain, the Irpef reductions for rents, interventions on the RAI canon of accommodation facilities, the extension of the IRAP payment to 30 September and also the events of evictions. On evictions, I would like to say that we welcome what has happened, but action can be improved. We're not the bad guys who want to evict the weak and we're not weak with the bad guys, but there are sharp evictions before the Covid emergency, and property rights are also part of the rights that need to be protected. [[Applause]] We believe, therefore, that the mechanism introduced breaks the immobilism, but can and must be improved, as the Confédération and other subjects have wished, and it will be one of the things that we will do with the next decree. For the next decree, which perhaps will be more the Chamber than the Senate to examine, the agenda that many colleagues have recalled and that also Forza Italia has helped to define commitment to intervene to make good use of the deviation of another 40 billion and, therefore, to intervene on VAT matches and we claim the defense of trade professionals, small and medium-sized enterprises, of the people of VAT consignments, that we know have suffered much more than other sectors, but with some greater employment guarantee or social safeguard (tourism, hotels, all the realities that still await answers). The real answer, however, is vaccines and openings, in which we believe, without demagogy but with much determination. That agenda for the next decree commits the majority to adopt measures for labour-intensive enterprises, to address the issues of lending credit to small and medium-sized enterprises with extensions, further moratories and then further interventions on the Tari, which certainly must be suspended for those who cannot pay a tax on waste that has not produced for the closure of activities. There are the themes of seasonal workers, fairs, minors, culture, which begins to have something, but that is not enough. I would also like to recall the motion that was approved yesterday in the House on banking issues, as the ABI has also asked, because fundamental interventions concerning economic growth, such as that on ACE, can be re-modulated so that we can deal decisively with Europe, EBA and all those who have to help us to have longer periods for the repayment of loans, reasonable rates and real support for the real economy. So let us also look very much at the future, the resources that will be needed for security and also for a chapter that has been neglected, namely the role of Roma Capitale. Also on the moratories, the thesis that we have illustrated and that for the next decree we invite to evaluate - I see the deputy minister Pichetto Fratin - is that, alongside grants to lost funds, long-term loans to low interest rates aid the Italian small and medium-sized enterprises and that better use is made of the deviation of the budget. These are proposals that we have put forward and that we will also apply in the next steps within the Government and the majority. We're still thinking about the 110% defense. Colleagues, let us be clear: the law under discussion on urban regeneration is fundamental and must be rewritten. [[Applause]] , because it must serve to realize innovations in the cities, not to museumize what needs to be revised instead. Museums and historic centers must be preserved, degraded neighborhoods must be regenerated. We are saying ours and we will continue to say it about that provision. It also requires other objectives that Forza Italia has reiterated in these hours: the objective of a tax reform, simplifications, abolition of regional tax on productive activities (IRAP), incentives to those who invest, fiscal peace. Our ministers are acting in these directions: Minister Gelmini, with a dialogue with the territories that I consider much better than that of the past; Minister Brunetta, with the objective of reforming the public administration, an epochal objective connected also to the recovery plan; Minister Carfagna, with the revival of the South issue that had been removed from the agenda of the last governments and that instead must return to the political and parliamentary debate. We'd like this tripe to come true and the government to find resources. In fact, there are other fundamental issues to finance the recovery. When I read that Amazon in Europe has 44 billion revenue and pays zero euros of taxes I say that even some rappers, instead of being Amazon's testimonial, could deal with tax and social injustice [[Applause]] , that some giants of the Network and king of exploitation are realizing; but they are too high to realize it and do not talk to the people. I therefore believe that in the coming months there is also work to be done on these sides, protecting the world of work, businesses, businesses, but also the world of professions and VAT matches. This is the spirit with which we participate - without being subordinate to anyone, but aware of an emergency phase - at this moment that we share as a national effort, as our colleagues who spoke in the debate, who worked in the Commission, with the certainty that the turn of government was essential to make Italy more respected in Europe, to begin to review the mechanisms of that triplet: more vaccines, more money and more help to the real population with an effective and incisive action of the Government. For these reasons we will vote for the trust of the Government Draghi, expressing a fairy tale vote on the provision to our examination, to undertake a path that brings back Italy, with the reopenings and with the resumption, to a season of rebirth for the whole nation. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u135	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u136	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u137	BAGNAI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, today comes the end of a legislative affair that has arisen in a completely different economic and political climate, on which perhaps it will be worthwhile to spend a few words just to motivate the vote in favour that we are going to express. In the meantime, I would like to begin by thanking my colleagues from the Commissions who have accompanied me in the process of converting the decree-law; a path which, with a polite euphemism, I would like to call bumpy. At a time when the rules - the so-called rules - which are then those which on the left once would have been called the relationships of force, are crumbling - as we have repeatedly hoped and recommended - let me dedicate a moving thought of solidarity to the Rules of Procedure, which I hope will remain firm to protect everyone, especially to protect that precious asset which, unfortunately, is truly rationed by nature, is our time. Tempestivity does not rhyme with hastyness or even with arbitraryness, but let us forget this experience. The course of the measure was born on 15 January 2012, when the previous President of the Council presented to the Chambers a report pursuant to Law No 243 of 2012, demanding a budgetary deviation from 32 billion. The assumption of the intervention was the introduction of new restrictive measures that had been taken in December and then consolidated by Decree-Law No 2 of 2021 and the DPCM of 14 January. The aim was to provide further support to those affected by the restrictive measures, which were considered to be relatively transitional. We know then what vicissitudes have delayed the expenditure of those resources. The government crisis led to the enactment of the decree-law support only on 22 March; we also know that restrictive measures have continued and are still in force, with varying degrees of intensity. The League, choosing with a sense of responsibility to support this Executive not of unity but of national salvation, has succeeded in impressing on this measure its value of common sense and concreteness. If for a few months we have not heard of Ateco codes, it is because this provision accepts, among others, our specific request repeatedly expressed in these classrooms. [[Applause]] The raising of the turnover ceiling from EUR 5 million to EUR 10 million, even though the arbitrariness of any threshold defined bears with it, has helped to widen the audience of the beneficiaries and follows our request. Finally, more than a year after the beginning of the crisis and with the timely analysis of the data offered by e-invoicing, it no longer made sense to resort to an arbitrary eligibility criterion such as the drop in turnover in April alone, which unfairly penalized so many activities characterized by seasonal developments. The criterion of eligibility for April, which we have always contested, has also been updated and improved in the measure under consideration, taking as a reference the turnover not of one month, but the average monthly turnover. Another and no less important request that the League had made since November is the contributory white year, which in this measure is refinanced with exemption from the minimum social security contributions of self-employed workers affected by a decrease in turnover. This measure complements those taken to protect employee labour with the refinancing of social shock absorbers. However, I do not wish to go into the infinite details of the measure. We are now accustomed to urgent measures which are the size of a budget law. But if we want to discuss them properly, we should reform the Rules of Procedure by giving the debate another time. The list of so many things done in Parliament, albeit with limited resources to improve the decree-law, has been made in general discussion. I would like to make it clear that I believe that we are all aware of the limitations that this measure also necessarily carries with it and we are naturally grateful to the opposition that, by playing its role, helps us in this important growth of awareness. The limitations of the measure stem primarily from the fact that they were conceived at a time when it was believed that restrictive measures would be more limited over time and from the fact that a government crisis delayed the disbursement of funds. We must, however, challenge and distance ourselves from sterile polemics such as that which, misunderstanding the criterion of suitability defined on the annual average of the monthly turnover, accused this Government of wanting to compensate for the loss of turnover of 2020. The compensation should, in fact, be proportionate to the months of additional enclosure provided for at the time when the appropriation was provided (December-January) and not to the year 2020. The numbers tell us that with the measure under discussion this Government has dedicated to the grants a sum almost identical to that which the previous Government had allocated in four decrees-laws [[Applause]] Moreover, the first measure entirely conceived by the Government in office, the second decree-law supports, financed by a deviation of 40 billion and addressed to the world of the enterprise, is already coming. These are the numbers of this government and this is a documentable change of pace. Then, without the issue of compromising the serenity of the external and internal climate in this House, I would like to observe what we all know and that the same report on the deviation of 15 April says clearly: experience shows that the rebound of GDP can be very strong as soon as social, economic and cultural life comes closer to normality. Here: normality, proportionality of interventions. If I look up, beyond the veil that brings back the effigy of the fathers of our juridical civilization, I see more on the face of a cloud the unmistakable physiognomy of Giorgio Gaber and I imagine his fun in seeing that today, in addition to the culatello or the jacket, also certain molecules are right, while, in addition to mortadella or jeans, also closing is left [[Applause]] I apologise to my progressive colleagues for the misuse of an icon of theirs, but I assure you that it has been done well, to draw theirs and our attention to one point. I hope that the verification of the effectiveness and validity of the non-pharmaceutical intervention measures (i.e. essentially closures, to understand us), which the League requested and obtained by mid-May, can take place in a peaceful climate and feed on assessments based on facts and true scientific literature, not on that of talk shows. We have seen another season of talk shows, those that defended austerity; it is to be said that in this case history has repeated itself, before as a farce and now as a tragedy. The real support for the economy will be to free it, of course where there is a scientific basis for doing so; But this foundation will not be there if the debate is fossilized on ideological preconceptions, those toward which Gaber manifested amused and motivated insuffering, and if science is confused with scientificism. [[Applause]] I tell you against my interest, because, if you think like that (confounding science and science), then you end up like in Madrid; the aspiration to freedom is incompressible and to those who wanted to compress it, whatever the reason, history has always presented a salty account, at best in electoral terms. So let us look to the future with confidence, but above all with rationality, and let us vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u138	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u139	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u140	OIL (M5S). Madam President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we are finally here to vote on the support decree. We had left in January, with the Count two government in office, with the vote of the deviation of 32 billion euros, which served for this decree-law, which should have been the five restorative. We were moving forward and we had opened a highway in front of us, to get the aid on the ground as soon as possible. Then someone decided that they had to stop in the grill for an appointment, we wasted time, changed driver and now we're here with a new team talking about the same measure. [[Applause]] Fortunately, someone's irresponsibility and unrighteousness has countered the enormous responsibility of other political forces, starting with the 5 Star Movement. But there we are; the important thing now is that the 32 billion arrive on the territory, because people and companies outside this building do not care who is driving today or the internal political problems, but care that they are helped and supported. I would like to draw attention to the fact that this yet another economic measure, the twelfth since the pandemic broke out, is absolutely not to be seen as an intervention on its own. It is part of a path, it integrates and develops what we have called the train of refreshments; let's forget the fact that today they are called supports, because the substance is that. If we go to take the single intervention, as has also been said in this House, it is clear that it is not enough alone; but, if we consider overall care Italy, liquidity, relaunching, simplifications, August decree, restaurations, other minor decrees, budget law, support one and the upcoming support- bis, we realize that with twelve economic measures we have already put about 200 billion into the system. It is money that is needed to help our companies, professionals and citizens and to help our country, without taking into account the money that we will put and that will arrive with the PNRR, which will deal with the part of investments and relaunch of Italy for the next six years. Other measures are underway, starting with a further simplification measure, with which, among other things, we intend to further simplify the 110% superbonus, because the measure, strongly desired by the Movimento 5 Stars, must be able to unleash all its potential. [[Applause]] When we started with the first decree in March 2020, we all hoped that the dark times would last only a few months; but, having never experienced similar situations, we had to organize ourselves to provide the necessary support to the businesses and people who needed them. Thus were born the decree I raise and all the other decrees. This, basically, is the first real measure of the Draghi Government in which we decide on the resources that will be engaged shortly, in addition to the PNRR (but there we talk about investments in the medium and long term). It was, if you like, the test of the holding of this majority, because discussing issues and solutions in such an enlarged majority is not easy; nor is it easy to agree when there are divergent positions. In some cases, satisfactory points of mind were reached for everyone, while in others it was decided to let go: you see the superbonus, so, despite the push of the Movimento 5 Stars and the will to intervene right now, the rest of the majority felt that they did not want to intervene. [[Applause]] President Draghi also said that we need to simplify the process and that it made no sense to delay measures that did not have an economic impact, but only in terms of streamlining the process. In other cases, on the other hand, it has been granted to someone, by virtue of flagrant government agreements made in this House, to bring home a flag, even though they knew that the fight in question had also been carried out by other political groups. Who knows how things have gone, whether they are companies, professionals or simple citizens who have seen in time who or which political group has really been interested in the matter, will not be enchanted by a post, an agency launch or a press release. However, we of the Movimento 5 Stars are interested in this decree-law going into port, because when we say that we are all interested and that no one has to stay behind, for us it is not a slogan but it is the reason of our being here. [[Applause]] And let us never forget that behind every situation there are people to be met. In this explanation of vote I want to talk about two amendments: one is in the document that will be adopted today, and the other has been deleted today, although it has been approved in the Commission. But both show how much the Movimento 5 Stars wants to support our production fabric. In the first case, with an amendment tabled at my first signature, we solved a problem that we were already working on from the first decree-restoration laws: a fund is created to support the so-called exodates of the restoratives, that is, all those start-ups that were found excluded from the measure of the decree-restoration laws and that risked being excluded or penalized also by the mechanism provided for by the decree-law supports, finding themselves in a sort of limbo. The classic example is that of VAT matches opened in 2018 which, for a number of reasons, began to invoice perhaps only from the second half of 2019. Let's take for example a bar, a restaurant, a shop: since the establishment of the company in 2018, between search of the premises, put in place, renovation and authorizations, maybe they issued the first receipt only in 2019, in fact remaining excluded from the decree-law support, as it was from the decree-law restori. Not anymore: with the reformulation proposed by the MEF, a non-refundable contribution of 1,000 euros has been foreseen, which we can consider in a positive perspective a half-full glass. The good news is there's a glass now and there's also some water in it. Now it will be up to the Government and the House, in the next decree-law, to try to close and complete this amount of resources that will serve to refresh everyone. [[Applause]] The other amendment I want to talk to you about is what our colleague, Mr Turco, had tabled on the transfer of tax credits to third parties (Transition 4.0), similar to what is planned for the superbonus 110%. The rule would have allowed companies to breathe in, because it would have allowed them to create liquidity, giving away immediately that tax credit that companies have "in the belly" without waiting long months before they can use it. I say "would have allowed" because the amendment on Transition 4.0, which is a battle of Movimento 5 Stars and which, for intellectual honesty, I must acknowledge being appreciated by the whole parliamentary arc, was voted positively in the Commission last night in the Senate, but today it has been removed from the maxi amendment on input of the General Accounting of the State for potential significant effects on public finance. These effects, as reported in the opinion submitted to the Commission, could be extremely significant and therefore the rule has been deleted. But this is something that like Movimento 5 Stars didn't fit us, because although it happens every now and then that in the conversion of a decree-law during trust some amendments can be deleted, it has never happened that such an important amendment has been deleted. So either the General Accounting Office of the State was wrong earlier and we were able to vote in the Commission, or it is wrong now. As Movimento 5 Stars we have firmly expressed our position of dissent with regard to this position, as such a full-bodied error on the part of a structure that must support Parliament cannot happen and must no longer happen. [[Applause]] We have only revised our position when the Government - indeed, Minister Franco - has assured us that we will begin immediately to talk about this amendment - then to talk again about Transition 4.0 - from the very beginning, practically starting from the beginning of next week. [[Applause]] All companies need this support. Mr President, vaccinations are increasing. We still have to be careful and we all hope that the reopenings in progress will be a positive signal that it will not be interrupted by a recurrence of the virus. Like Movimento 5 Stars we hope that the next measures are more oriented to give a boost to Italy to return to regularity, with supports that increasingly concern the resumption of the normality of the country's life (and Transition 4.0 was one of those). In all this, the decree supports, which - I repeat - is part of a train party with Count II and which has made numerous stops, is another fundamental part to help Italy. We know that it will not be the last and, despite the various solutions proposed, that range in a wide way, how wide is the extremely varied majority that supports this Government, and despite this bad page, that we are sure will be resolved shortly thanks also to the assurance of the Minister Franco, I can declare the favorable vote of the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u141	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u142	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u143	PARAGO (Mixed). Mr President, there is no cedibility of credits, dear Movimento 5 Stars. It's not on the superbonus or any other bonus. The support decree is therefore a blah blah support, so you will vote for a blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah. Tomorrow you will start a work table; tomorrow you will always want to do things. Tomorrow you wanted to lower the electricity and gas bills, cutting down the system charges; but, indeed, it is tomorrow. "And if tomorrow (and I emphasize if) " he sang Mina. But my friend Licheri isn't Mina, he doesn't have his voice. Today the restaurant weeps, as it cried yesterday, crushed by your absurd norms: we are on May 6 and there is still curfew at 22; it is crushed by the banks, who want to humiliate families and small economic operators; it is crushed by the multinational delivery companies, those multinational companies to which you have not wronged a single hair. Multinationals escape tax that is a beauty, because they do it according to the law. To the restaurateurs do the fines, to the families and to the entrepreneurs remove the cession of the credit and to the tourism put a stupid vaccination pass, so you have to pay in order to be able to make the swabs and the serological tests: a pass based on the income. The wedding industry is waiting for a clear protocol and I ask you: do you have to win the championship to make the party? Speaking of parties, for banks it's always a feast, but for Montepaschi it's always a little more, because the government is hiding the truth about MPS. Why don't you promote responsibility action against Perfume? The Italians to whom you give refreshments and blah blah supports must know that MPS budgets have been rigged and that our money has been used to buffer those prestigious games. Today a survey of almost six thousand pages has evidenced that on the deteriorated credits the former summits of the bank have violated the norms. Why isn't Dragons talking? Why isn't Daniele Franco talking? Why don't PD and the rest of the majority speak? The Italians' money is involved. And then, if there is to be the truth, the only support that interests this Government is support for banks and multinationals: that is very good for you. Congratulations! Italexit will vote no.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u144	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u145	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u146	CRUCIOLI (Mixed). Mr President, today there has been a real political ambush: everything that had been proposed by a certain political party and that really would have served the country has been removed. Thus were removed the superbonus for companies, which allowed the transferability of tax credits, and other measures. Everything that was cedible and that gave oxygen to the enterprises has been removed; the impregnability of the income of citizenship has been removed, while clear signs have been given, such as that of the forgiveness, which is devastating: it is the signal that the clever have advantages. I have heard some today say that what has happened is unacceptable, but then they accept it; for the Alternative There is, however, what is unacceptable remains unacceptable. We shall therefore vote against this measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u147	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u148	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u149	DI NICOLA (M5S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask for the floor to announce and justify my dissenting vote on the support decree, which, among the many measures necessary to accompany businesses and citizens at this difficult time, contains one, the one relating to tax forgiveness, unacceptable to all honest taxpayers and heavily rejected, as well as by millions of citizens and trade union forces, by some of the highest authorities in this country: Court of Auditors, Bank of Italy, not to mention the Parliamentary Budget Office. I supported the constitution of this Government to address the three points needed to overcome the pandemic emergency indicated by the President of the Republic of Mattarella and in the programmatic speech of the President of the Council in charge of Mario Draghi in this Chamber on 17 February: the fight against evasion... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u150	I would ask my fellow Members who are at the centre of the Chamber to take their seats and allow Senator Di Nicola to speak in an appropriate climate in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u151	DI NICOLA (M5S). The fight against evasion, which in the last year alone amounted to 107.2 billion, was one of the priority commitments. Therefore I would never have expected from this Government the proposal of the usual pardon as a gift to the evaders, which, among other things, for the first time in history also has a significant cost for the public coffers: at least 700 million euros; in addition to the damage, therefore, also the mockery. Tell us, you government representatives, that this pardon should be done to remove the storage of collection from records that are no longer collectable. You are well aware that this is not true, because according to data from the Revenue Agency itself, the folders actually no longer collectable, because they relate to failed, deceased or null and void subjects, are 40%, while the rest belongs to taxpayers who are perfectly able to pay their dues. We are therefore faced with the usual game: the parties are ingratiating the evaders hoping to forfeit their votes. This is how the cross-party of tax evasion, which is clearly very strong in this Parliament, wins once again. But beware: you win by sending a devastating message of injustice to the country, telling taxpayers that evading taxes is convenient, sooner or later the usual pardon will come. You win by leaving the weight of the support of the public coffers and the welfare, which the evaders use with low hands... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u152	We shall therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u153	I refer to the vote on amendment 1,9000 (correct text), tabled by the Government, entirely replacing the single article of the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 41 of 22 March 2021 on the approval of which the Government raised the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the matter of trust will take place by roll-call vote. As established by the Conference of Leaders, each Senator will vote from his/her place, declaring his/her vote. I remember that it is necessary to avoid gatherings at the center of the hemicycle. Having said that, I expect those who are at the center of the hemicycle will kindly take their seats. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Romano is drawn by lot.) Colleagues in order not to create confusion, I warn you that there have been multiple requests for advance voting. On the basis of what I have been told by the individual Groups, I have no exception. So, starting with the government, each of you will then be able to ask your Parent Company. [[Comments]] I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal. GIRO, secretary, makes the appeal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I declare the vote closed. I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of amendment 1,9000 (correct text), entirely replacing the sole article of the bill of conversion into law of Decree-Law No 41 of 22 March 2021 on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust: [[Senators present 241 Senators voting 240 Majority 118 Favorable 207 Contrari 28 Absent 5]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). All amendments and agendas relating to the text of Decree-Law No 41 are therefore excluded.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u154	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-324.ana.u155	The Senate will meet again in public session on Wednesday 12 May, at 10 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 20.13 p.m.
