ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-297.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Giro, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 27 January. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-297.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-297.ana.u3	The next item is: Communication, pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 77 of the Constitution, of the submission of draft laws for the conversion of decrees-laws. On 29 January 2021, the following draft law was presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers, by the Minister for Youth Policy and Sport: "Conversion into law of Decree-Law No 5 of 29 January 2021 on urgent measures concerning the organisation and operation of the Italian National Olympic Committee (CONI)" (2077). On 30 January 2021, the following draft law was presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance and the Minister for Justice: "Conversion to law of Decree-Law No. 7 of 30 January 2021 extending time limits for the establishment, collection, compliance and payment of taxes, as well as for the execution of penalties as a result of the epidemiological emergency by COVID-19 of 2078."
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-297.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-297.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-297.ana.u6	Ferrero (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I begin by reading a letter written by a mountain operator from Prali, in our areas of Piedmont: I am thinking of the many invisible snows and, with humility, I share my thoughts. In a sea of news, numbers, decrees and so much uncertainty, the mountain, dignified and silent, is going through a tragic invisible winter. Like a lady of infinite beauty, dressed in her best white dress, shining and ready as a bride, she cannot give herself to the many eyes and smiles that would like to admire her once again. Everything is motionless and everything awaits while an entire economic system, familiar, of psychophysical and emotional balance is creaking and risks to sink silently under the snow white. Mountain people know the silence, not only does they live it but it is an integral part of it and has an innate modesty. Mountain people live with the cold, the distances and the great difficulties for love of a natural environment that is received as a gift and is protected and shared with those who are always welcome guests of this territory. The closure of the ski resorts, the closure of the hotels, the lack of work of ski instructors, seasonal ski staff, shops, restaurants, bars, cooks, waiters, cleaning workers, taxi drivers, animators, music groups, sports associations and all other activities related to the aforementioned - that is, practically all - is a dramatic and touching scenario. In fact, if on the one hand everyone understands and largely accepts this sacrifice for respect of the emerging situation of the Public Health Service, the feeling of dismay and in many cases of despair is taking over the almost total lack, to date, of concrete and consistent economic support from the State. I will not conclude the reading of this long letter, but this message makes us think because all of us, now, should be guided by the decree-ristorid law, which should be issued, which would meet all these people, and instead, excuse me so many colleagues, we are fighting about nothing. We should make the provision that would be of great use to all our people. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-297.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-297.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-297.ana.u9	CORRADO (M5S). Mr President, some of the Members of the League have written an amendment to the decree of one thousandprorogues, which reads as follows: "Until the date of December 31, 2025, the prior verification of the archaeological interest referred to in Article 25, paragraph 1, of the legislative decree of April 18, 2016, n. 50, is necessary only for the areas subject to specific protection in urban interventions. For cases not covered in the previous period, the self-certification of an approved designer is sufficient. Since the instrument of prior verification of archaeological interest is reserved, in the current legislation, to areas not protected, it is clear who are the sworn enemies of preventive archaeology. Moreover, the proximity of the signatories to the amendment to certain wind turbines is known. This amendment, which is in clear contradiction with both Article 28 of the Code of Cultural Heritage and the European Convention of Valletta, ratified by Italy, is proposed in the name of a misunderstanding of the design process. In fact, not only would it seriously weaken the protection of the archeological heritage, with destructive consequences for this heritage, but it would even run the risk of lengthening the time and raising the costs of the yards to the exclusive detriment of public funding. The same Directorate-General ABAP of the Ministry, after the position of all interested parties, criticized it publicly. President, detest adjectives such as "moveable" or "resilient," nouns such as "value-raising" or "simplification" not for the concepts they express naturally, but for the distorted and unhealthy use they make of them, it is no longer enough. They should be banned from the language of administrations and public debate. It is a provocation to me, of course, but I am not joking at all when I say that amendments like that of the League are unconstitutional, if Article 9 of the Constitution still applies, which reads: "The Republic (...) It protects the landscape and the historical and artistic heritage of the Nation. Or perhaps the word "guard" was banned from the country that, in other times, invented it and taught it to the world. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-02-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-297.ana.u10	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting. The Senate is summoned to the house. The sitting was closed at 16.09 p.m.
