ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.30 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Tosato, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u4	On 21 September the following draft law was presented: the President of the Council of Ministers and the Ministers for Health, Public Administration, Labour and Social Policy, Economic Development and Justice: "Conversion to law of Decree-Law No 127 of 21 September 2021 introducing urgent measures to ensure the safety of public and private work through the extension of the scope of application of the green certification COVID-19 and the strengthening of the screening system" (2394).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u7	ROJC (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Government, I would like the attention of this House to recall a great musician, Aldo Danieli, who died on Sunday afternoon in Trieste. The artist is indissolubly related to man; the more important is the richness of man, the deeper will be that of the artist will say the composer Marij Kogoj. Aldo Daneu Danieli was a cosmopolitan, but also a man strongly linked to his land, to the Karst. A great talent, his, who led him from Trieste, where he trained musically at the Tartini Conservatory, to direct in the most important opera theaters in the world, from San Francisco to the Fenice of Venice, to the choir of the Arena of Verona and the Teatro Colón of Buenos Aires, working as a master collaborator with the work of Vienna, his Trieste, Naples, Palermo, Turin, with numerous theatres in Germany and with great opera artists who with him deepened and perfected the vocal technique and prepared to face important opera roles. Among all, I would like to recall the great friendship and artistic loyalty with tenor Carlo Cossutta, an unforgettable Verdi interpreter of world renown. Master Danieli saw himself Italianizing his name - born in fact Slovenian, like Adi Daneu - and on his definitive return to Trieste he wanted to dedicate himself to his community. Composer and refined interpreter of many opera pages, even of contemporary authors, had published a book dedicated to vocal technique, which was explained with minutia and knowledge, but imbued with anecdotes of his long artistic life as well as caricatures and drawings with which he loved to tell himself. He wanted to challenge himself in the belief that there are no limits to the ability of a group of singers to interpret music, preparing chorals of lovers and performances of great intensity. A wise guide, an all-round artist with a cultural depth that also allows him unthinkable artistic challenges. Lovely conversator, he followed politics and culture and loved to exquisite it while sitting at the piano. Man of great irony and simplicity, awarded with important awards including that of Knight of the Republic. I had the honour to collaborate with him several times and to write the introductory note of his already mentioned volume. He will remain the knowledge he shared with great generosity, his self-irony, his gallantry, but above all the work that makes his memory indelible. To his family, his students and friends a heartfelt hug. Hello master, hvala! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u8	The next item is the statement by the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy on the protection of the Controlled Designation of Origin of Prosecco. I call the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry, Senator Patuanelli.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u9	Mr President, fellow senators and fellow senators, the excellence of the Italian agri-food heritage is a fundamental component of Made in Italy's claim to global markets, and the European system of PDO and PGI geographical indications is a powerful instrument for promoting and protecting it. Thanks to the distinctiveness of our production, Italy is first in Europe by number of recognized trademarks: there are 838 PDOs and PGIs registered. Italy does not produce food: Italy produces distinctiveness, culture and tradition. The sector covers 285 protection consortia and more than 180,000 employees, with a production value of around 20% of the total national agri-food. Today the recovery of the agricultural sector and industrial transformation depends largely on the growth of the foreign market, and the first figures this year indicate that in 2021 the historical threshold of 50 billion euros of agri-food exports could be exceeded: a truly exceptional result for our producers. It is therefore necessary to strengthen support for PDO and PGI products, which are the most important and successful components in the most dynamic and profitable markets. A protection that goes also through the fight against the counterfeiting of the so-called italian soiling, an area in which the attention of the Ministry is always high thanks to the constant and effective control action of the inspectorate and the Carabinieri command for the food protection. Within the brands with a name, Prosecco is an exclusively Italian typicality, as well as the case of the most commercial success of recent years. In 2020 500 million bottles were produced for 2.4 billion euros of consumer turnover: a figure that speaks for itself. In the space of a little more than a decade since its establishment, 2009, Prosecco has become the first Italian PDO in the wine sector. Over the past five years, both exports and the value of production have increased by about 30%, reaching a share of 25% of the total national value of wine PDOs. During the same period Prosecco played a decisive role in the growth of Italian wine exports, up to reaching a share of more than 16% of the total in 2020. It is quite clear that prosecco is driving the whole agri-food sector. Today, three quarters of the bottles produced are placed abroad, particularly in the United Kingdom, the United States and Germany. This driving effect is also reflected in the results of the export of wine in the first half of 2021, as I said before, which grows by 15.2% compared to the first half of 2020, compared to a growth of 12.2% of the agri-food sector as a whole. It is also for these reasons that the story that is the subject of today's information, which I am going to reconstruct, is given the utmost attention by me and the Ministry, in order to protect the Italian agri-food market and one of our wine excellences. In June, the European Commission put to the attention of the Member States a working document on the publication in the Official Journal of the European Union of the application for the protection of the traditional term Prošek of the wine sector submitted by Croatia, pursuant to Article 113 of EU Regulation No 1308 of 2013. Since the beginning, already in the course of the European Management Committee of 29 June, we have expressed the clear opposition to the proposal because, not only the translation of this mention corresponds to the name of the DOC Prosecco and the DOCG Conegliano Valdobbiadene-Prosecco and Colli asolani-Prosecco, protected as PDO and as such entered in the relevant Commission register, but also because - and I would like to stress this strongly - the possible authorisation to use the Croatian Prošek would create and create a dangerous precedent for institutionalization of Italian soiling. Nevertheless, the Commission has considered that there are no grounds for the publication of the application and, while of course keeping very high attention to the matter, I would like to reassure you that a final decision on the registration of Prošek has not yet been taken on the subject, since European legislation allows us, in the opposition, to assert our reasons. To date, the Commission has simply given its assent to the publication in the Official Journal of the application. The whole merit phase will be long and will follow this path. The European Union's Agriculture Commissioner Janusz Wojciechowski himself, who was called into question by myself and the representatives of the regions - the regional councillors, whom I thank for their contribution and the great work they are doing together with the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy - during the recent G20 of Agriculture, in saying that the Prosecco issue is very specific and that Italy's point of view will be taken seriously, said that the issue is far from over and, at a meeting with the Councillors in the margins of the G20 events, stated explicitly that PDO and PGI are elements to be strengthened and not to be weakened. As provided for in European legislation, therefore, in the sixty days from the publication of the request for registration in the Official Journal (publication not yet intervened) we will make formal opposition to the Croatian application and we will do so in an appropriate and compact manner, both with the help of the technical structures of the Ministry, and with the pressure, the action and the political interlocation that we will exercise towards Brussels. In fact, a technical table has already been set up to prepare a duly substantiated statement on the eligibility conditions, in order to oppose what Croatia has proposed. Allow me, in this regard, to extend my thanks to the Secretary for Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy, Senator Centinario [[Applause]] , which, besides having immediately followed the question in the first person - and which, indeed, by virtue of its delegation today wanted to be present precisely to represent the unity of the Government and how we move in a synchronized way - immediately activated a dossier, also because of its delegation. I have personally asked him to act by ensuring the coordination necessary to make ministerial action as a whole fruitful and effective. There are many arguments in support of our reasons, which make me hope for the happy end of the story, that we will celebrate unlocking an excellent bottle of Prosecco, since in any case, having not yet intervened the publication of the application by Croatian, the information elements we have are necessarily limited. We do not yet know the substance and content of the question, but of course we will analyse it in detail as soon as it is published in the Official Journal. In fact, I note that a possible recognition of the traditional term Prošek is contrary to Article 33 (2) of Delegated Regulation (EU) 2019/33, which allows the coexistence between traditional terms PDO and PGI only for traditional terms protected before 1 August 2009 and this is not the case. In this respect, I would remind you that Croatia's accession negotiations already made a request to this effect and, contrary to Italy's opposition, this request was rejected. In fact, the traditional term Prošek was not entered in the EU Commission register. We will also appeal to what the Court of Justice of the European Union ruled on 9 September in Case C-783/19 (Comité Interprofessionnel du Vin de Champagne/GB, also known as the Champanillo judgment), i.e. that there is abusive evocation when the use of a name produces in the mind of an average European consumer, normally informed and reasonably attentive and prudent, a sufficiently direct and unambiguous link between that name and the PDO. The existence of such a link may result from several elements, in particular the partial intercorporation of the protected name, the phonetic and visual affinity between the two names and the resulting similarity and, even in the absence of such elements, the conceptual proximity between the PDO and the name in question or, again, a similarity between the products protected by that same PDO and the products or services marked by that same name. Well, it is not up to me to say this, but it certainly appears as the term Prošek, because of its phonetic and visual affinity, evokes the Italian prosecco in the minds of the average European consumer. Moreover, there is no country called Prošek, while there is a town in the municipality of Trieste called Prosecco. Therefore, I do not believe that there are any legal conditions for it to be registered. If this were to happen, it would clearly be denied an authoritative legal principle which the European Court of Justice affirmed recently. I have already pointed out how great, strong and important Prosecco production is for our agri-food and wine system. To this sector I reiterate my commitment and of the whole Government to put in place all our forces and energies to block this wrong and absurd decision that mortifies the history and identity of our territories and penalizes producers and consumers. I very much hope - but I am more than convinced, given also the request for information - to have the support of all of you, as well as of the entire Government, for what necessarily can only be a battle of our entire country system in favor of one of its most important and distinctive excellences. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u10	I declare open the discussion on the information of the Minister of Agricultural Food and Forestry Policy. Senator Taricco is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u11	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his declared commitment and the Undersecretary for the work that has already been done in recent weeks on this subject. I believe that there will be strong and unanimous support here today from the whole of Parliament, which interprets the country's feeling - I think it is appropriate. I think there is no doubt that this battle (so I call it) is fundamental for a territory with more than 25,000 hectares of wine production, more than 10,000 farms and 1,500 among wine houses and sparkling wines, which interpret an extraordinary economic system that is the perspective and future of the territory, but also one of the ambassadors and banners of the quality of Made in Italy in the world. From this point of view, I believe that we will all together carry on this kind of commitment and this kind of battle. However, I would like to stress that it is not only the future of prosecco and its territory that is at stake here, but it is a model of food protection, which is that of the designations of origin that the European Union has given itself and of which, as the Minister rightly said, Italy is the absolute protagonist with over 800 specialities guaranteed and certified that declare to the world its production model, its history, its traditions, which define the territorial areas in which these productions are made. It is at stake a model that is a cultural heritage, which is the preservation of territories and communities. I think it's obvious to everyone that this season this model is under attack, as the story of balsamic vinegar of the past few weeks testifies. I also believe that there are a number of initiatives which tend to call into question this model, which is fundamental from our point of view because it guarantees transparency and authenticity towards consumers, protection of cultural traditions that are fundamental for certain territories. In this regard, the battle and our commitment to defend this cultural model and the call on the European Union to be strongly committed to it at the forefront are absolutely fundamental. The other central issue of the matter, in addition to the defence of our Prosecco model, is consumer protection, as the Minister has pointed out. There is the evocation of a name, however, on a grape variety and on a wine that is still and has nothing to do with the idea of Prosecco, which, if approved, would risk creating absolute confusion in the consumer about what is the product in question. From this point of view the reflection that the Minister brought us on the concept of evocation I think is extraordinarily important precisely because it is a "baluard" defending the consumer's right to know what he is buying. As the minutes pass quickly, I would like to sum up our commitment to this. We are committed today, as the Minister said, to explaining the strategy to us, in a battle which at this time is first and foremost legal. We have all the elements to say and to move in defence of a product having, from our point of view, all the legal elements to be able to do so. However, it is also a political battle; we must make an ever closer alliance with all those who believe in our productive model focused on designations of origin, because this is a battle that we play today, but we will play in the future if we want to protect our food model. It is also a cultural battle on the model of agriculture, on the defence of authenticity and the non-massification of products. The theme of the designations of origin of the protection consortia is and will be the heart of this battle. If this battle is left alone... [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u12	Senator Taricco, you really have a second.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u13	TARICCO (PD). If this battle remains only Italian, we risk losing it; if it becomes a battle that sees in Italy the bishop of Europe and of all those in the world who believe in this model, we can win it and for consumers this will be a fundamental bet. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u14	He's enlisted to speak Senator Ferro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u15	Mr President, Minister, Mr Undersecretary, I would like to say on the premise that you are a good team at the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, of which Senator Battistoni is also a member. You're working very well. [[Applause]] and I believe that we must acknowledge the work you are doing to protect Italian excellence. You, Minister, have rightly pointed out the numbers: this year the 50 billions of exports, which are a significant and important slice, will be reached in the agri-food sector. I have always been a convinced Europeanist, but I do not like this kind of Europe. We've already given Tokaji. We are besieged worldwide (I think of Parmesan), so we must defend these excellences of ours. Minister, as Senator Taricco said, there is a latent serious error of consumer induction in this affair, because the idea that we can take a wine that looks like ours is against the level of our European denominations. In our disciplinary there is also - I remember it, although surely they will know - the characteristic of the still wine, so in the denomination of controlled origin (DOC) of Prosecco there is not only sparkling wine, but there is also a disciplinary that provides the still wine, then how do we put it? Secondly, I come from East Verona where there is a name called Soave and it identifies a country, that of Soave. So there can't be anyone else in the world who patents or places a mark under that name, because we would actually make absolutely incalculable disasters. This request from Croatia for registration in the Prosecco DOC is already creating, according to the official data of the Prosecco consortium, serious damage in terms of export: already today this situation is creating damage in our first export excellence in the field of agro-food. The authorization to Prošek would create a dangerous precedent: consider that our main allies in this battle will be the French of Champagne and the Spanish, because it introduces a vulnus really dangerous. The European credibility of third countries is also at stake, especially in the US market where, although Prosecco is the first in terms of turnover, commercial penetration is not yet strong. It is, therefore, an important battle that I am sure will find the unconditional and convinced support of all the political forces of our country. Let's not quit. We do not hypothesize a subordinate, in the sense of accepting Prošek only as a sweet dessert wine, because it introduces a vulnus really dangerous for the smartsters that are everywhere in the world. Let's say no. Minister, you said that the government has everything, tell President Draghi that we cannot go back an inch on this issue; we must hold a firm position because, even from the budgetary point of view, we have already given with Tokaji, so there is no need to be attacked again on this. Already today there are negative results in sales, especially in the North American market. I do not know what the procedures will be like, but at any level of negotiation on this issue, Minister, Mr Undersecretary, Government gentlemen, a defence of our flag must be placed. Let us move forward, let us not give up and you will certainly have the unconditional support of the whole Parliament and also of Forza Italia. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u16	She's enlisted to speak Senator Brollini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u17	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister and Secretary-General for being here today because, as the Minister said and as previous speakers have just said, this is a battle for all of us and we must win it across the board. As the Minister rightly said in his statement, at the moment the European Commission has decided to proceed only with publication in the Official Journal for the recognition of Prošek. Although the word Prošek is very similar to the Italian sparkling wine prosecco then there are no similarities between the products, neither for the method of production, nor for the style, nor for the grapes used. There is no relationship even between the origins of the two names. Prošek, we know, is a traditional dessert wine from the southern part of Dalmatia. It is therefore a product completely different from the Italian Prosecco which, instead, is the flagship of Italian wine production, which embraces two regions, Veneto and Friuli-Venezia Giulia, nine provinces and three designations of origin: Prosecco Doc, Prosecco di Conegliano Valdobbiadene and Asolo Prosecco Doc, for a total production that exceeded 600 million bottles, after having collected, in 2019, the important recognition of Unesco for the hills of Prosecco. Cia di Treviso has emphasized in recent weeks that the great results achieved by the denominations of Prosecco, obtained precisely thanks to the hard work and the determination of generations of winemakers, are now in grave danger. There is a very serious violation of the identity of a community and a territory that is recognized in a wine production of great excellence. For this reason, as a Senator of Italy Viva, especially because of the connection I have with my territory, with Veneto, I feel particularly close to the appeal of the trade associations to take action, in every seat and table, to protect our agri-food productions. Here, in the Senate, I would like to express my thanks for the work carried out by all the professional associations, at provincial, regional and national level, because it is alongside the consortia and producers that we must all stand together, defending our agri-food productions and protecting an entire sector that is bringing so much value to Italy and our territories. We are still in a prodromic phase of the affair, but for this reason we must, quickly, tackle compactly, all of us, for an adequate and effective opposition. In this sense, it gives me hope for what you, Minister, have already said over the past few weeks, but above all in your speech today: the work done by professional associations must find a strong side in the institutions and in the government in order to achieve appreciable results. We need to square up to safeguard our country's excellence. I do not want to mention, because you have already done so, the recent decisions of the European Court of Justice, but the decision of the European Commission, yes, leaves us somewhat perplexed. We must defend our products. It will not be an easy or simple route, because the Prošek is not a trivial imitation of the most well-known Venetian and Friulian bubbles. It has a history behind it, of course, but the coexistence between the two products is essentially unthinkable. You have also reminded us very well what such cohabitation generates on the international markets. We are talking about an Italian bubble that today exceeds 620 million bottles, with a total turnover of 2.4 billion, of which 78 percent abroad. That is also why the European Commission's decision is a dangerous precedent, which risks weakening the European Union itself in its international relations and negotiations on trade agreements, where, I want to stress this in this House, we need to protect the name from fakes. In particular, I believe that we must insist on the aspect of the confusion that could arise, since it is precisely the consumer who makes the difference in the success of a product. We can't afford mistakes here. It is not enough to read the labels or notice the differences of place or production, because it is very simple that a word of sound becomes very quickly identity in the collective imagination. We must be very firm on this and protect consumers, protect and support farmers, the territory and the quality of the name Prosecco. A history, a tradition, a culture, whose notoriety, now consolidated all over the world, cannot be exploited for the benefit of others. We must therefore act quickly, Minister, - as you have just said - because we have a few days, just from the date of publication, to present a reasoned objection, which the European Commission will analyse before taking a final decision. Fortunately - I am demonstrating today the previous speeches - this is a cross-cutting issue: Government, trade associations and us representatives of the institutions at all levels are all called upon to take joint action to prepare for rapid, effective and appropriate action. So it becomes even more fundamental that we move in a compact way. We must share a common path of intent that allows us to present strong objections to the European Commission, in order to avoid not only an attack on our Prosecco, but on the whole principle of protecting excellence, of which the names are the highest expression at European level. I therefore hope that the European institutions, as has already been shown in the past, will be able to combine the protection of the consumer, of a territory and of a historical name, such as that represented by Prosecco. On the other hand, any different scenario would end up emptying out of all meaning the very notion of PDO and ultimately disavowing the fundamental values that the Member States and the European Union itself are called upon to pursue. This would end up creating a precedent that would partially threaten all European denominations and protected excellences. I therefore thank the Minister and the Undersecretary for being here today. We will of course be at your side, of the territories concerned and of the operators of the field, because our country will have to oppose with every means to this recognition that risks to cause a remarkable economic damage to one of the products of the leading made in Italy agri-food. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u18	Senator De Carlo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u19	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister and begin with some bad news. It is this morning that Croatia makes its application for registration of the Prošek and so it is starting today with the 60 days that we have all just finished quoting in this House. Minister, you know that you have always been quite well seen on this political side - it seems obvious to me - because most of the time you have come to this House you have asked to defend national products, sometimes dragged by us, as on the issue of nourishing scores, first to the House and then to the Senate, and also today, with this information on Prosecco, which I share must be an issue of absolute transversality and patriotism. This is not only because I am Belluno, therefore akin to that Venetian and Friulian territory in which Prosecco is born and develops, but because we are aware that breaking this rule, which in some way plans to surpass and override the right itself, taking us out, then opens to a series of litigations such for which you end up having nothing protected. There will no longer be a protected domination, in fact, if the message passes that someone in Croatia, a few meters from our Adriatic shores, can record a name that causes the consumer to be completely confused. He mentioned very well the data of Italian exports, which have reached 50 billion and that we ambitiously set ourselves to reach more than 80 billion. In fact, it is all very much the credit of our producers, our companies and our farmers. Honestly, it is not that this nation - not because of its own fault, but also because of its predecessor - today has a plan for national agriculture that can be said to be a factor in the development and increase of exports. We work on this, we're at your disposal. As we have always said, when there is to be built, you will always find us at your side. We also reject criticism of ministers who are not competent on the subject, I have already told them and I repeat this to you. One of the best ministers, Giovanni Marcora, was graduated as a surveyor and I think that no one who understands a bit of agriculture in this House can say that he was not a great minister, before agriculture and then industry, two neighboring sectors, but probably diametrically opposed. Who does not remember the Marcora law on cooperatives, to which it has given the possibility to replace the entrepreneur in case of financial problems? For this reason we are at his side, free from any ideological positioning, to protect a good fruit of the Italian, Venetian and Friulian tradition, which today is seriously endangered by this Croatian attempt. He correctly recalled how they have already tried and rightly cited certain judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union, that of 9 September 2021, which in fact establishes the prohibition of the evocation of a name, but also the previous one, of 2019, which prohibits any evocation of names. The right, therefore, is absolutely on our side. If anything, we have to ask why Europe with the Croatians has a possible attitude towards us, while it has a firm closure towards, for example, Spain, when with the tapas bars Champanillo intends to evoke Champagne. I would not want this attitude to be based on the fact that Europe sees us weak today, despite the fact that a very large majority government is in office, with a trust that is genuinely embarrassing (by the way, four trusts in forty-eight hours are something that has never been seen in this Parliament). So we would not want yours to be perceived from the outside as a strong government with the weak and weak with the strong, because this is what is happening. It would not be otherwise explained why the European Union does not immediately stand in the way of this issue today and do not give the Croatians a 60-day period to explain their reasons. We would not like, Minister - but it is not entirely your fault, nor the Undersecretary - that our nation, as at the time of the known rave party, should be perceived as the one where everything is allowed and where it is better to go, because so much the weakness of the Government does not allow us to intervene where 8,000 "bad guys" drug themselves among other things within an agricultural land, so we should have been angry at that orgy of lawlessness that took place in the Province of Viterbo. I would not like us to be perceived as weak by the same principle that everything is allowed in Italy, and therefore, as they say, we could be stuck in butter even in matters that are relevant to our economy. He also mentioned the figure relating to Italian soiling: well, we have reached 100 billion copied products, so it is clear that there is, as in the case of nutritious scores, a form of discrimination against our products and an attempt to erode our markets. It is clear that there are markets of Italian agro-food not only protected because of the origin and quality, like that of Prosecco, but also famously recognized worldwide for their absolutely valid products, which therefore fight competition simply for comparison: when there is an Italian product on a shelf, the whole world prefers it. Today there is the request for registration of the name Prošek for a wine totally distant from the traditional Prosecco, even if there is a version of the Prosecco firm that does not deviate so much from that wine: it is evident that the Croatians, when they have received the approval for the Prošek, in a year will produce a wine with bubbles; it seems so evident that this cannot be forgotten. Minister, as we are a patriotic opposition - and we are proving this even now - we ask you to make a working group within your Ministry to deal with this type of defence, and to be helped by the lawyer. This is what we must do about the contingent, but be careful because as a government and as a nation we must demonstrate - and here you will find us at your side - a unity of intent and a compactness that do not make us feel like the ashes of Europe: today it happens for Prosecco, tomorrow it will happen for the nutri-score, the day after tomorrow for any other product that we intend to degrade. If we don't, we're constantly in defense. Today we need a Minister of Defense of the Nation, because he is relegated to being unable to make programming, because he must always defend himself against any kind of attack. It reminds me of the mayors of small municipalities who never manage to plan, simply because they have to waste all their time defending themselves against accusations, responsibilities, sometimes from a hostile government - from the many who are, not only this - that sees small municipalities almost as absolute evil. We would like him to be freed from these tasks and finally be able to deal with the strategic planning of a primary sector such as agriculture. It is no coincidence that it is called this: it is the primary sector because for years it has been the driving force for this nation. It is the sector that today sees the biggest increases in exports, they are not of the wine: from 670 million bottles to 370 million exports; Prosecco alone is worth 2 billion, one of which only for export. Minister, our appeal is clear: tell Europe to put its hands off our Prosecco and national products. If he does so, in the ways he will explain us, we will certainly be at his side; otherwise, you will find us here every day to prick him on the issues we consider open and fundamental for a nation that is said to be sovereign and that must be so on its own products and on its own people. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u20	Senator Ferrazzi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u21	Mr President, Minister, it seems to me that the importance of Prosecco production in our country is emerging in a plastic way from this morning's debate. The three leading consortia have created a quality product: of course, we could also discuss the quality differentiated according to where it is produced and the type of production, but certainly quality; they created a brand, making it a flag of our country. In fact, travelling around Europe and the world, it is evident that Prosecco is now absolutely the most consumed Italian wine, becoming one of the reference wines. When we talk about this, we know what we are talking about: Italy, food, quality, territory, the passion of the territory and genius loci are all issues that create a wealth that goes far beyond the turnover of Prosecco, but together with other components create exactly that wealth, that production and that brand Italy that allow our country to be a reference point worldwide. The data that many colleagues have actually provided concern only one of the three consortia, the Prosecco DOC, because we should also add the others: that of Conegliano Valdobbiadene and that of Asolo. The production of bottles is now more than 600 million per year and the turnover is almost 3 billion euros per year, with the export that now far exceeds the internal use. It has to be said that the producers, among other things, even with difficulty, have remodulated the sales channels: e-commerce has also exploded, of which in the last year there has been an increase of 325 percent; in Japan there has been a growth of 224 percent; there really is that genius capable of working not only the product, but also the process and communication, which are the three central elements that make a product a worldwide success. Minister, as I see it, the theme is not only to defend Prosecco from Prošek - although it certainly is - with this traditional denomination, which is linked to that of Dalmatia and which refers to a liqueur wine, therefore of a different type, which of course is not a direct competitor. The name, however, is too assonant and therefore the battle should be done even for this reason and to define this principle. There is, however, another danger, Minister, to which you have referred and which we reiterate, and which is why we are pushing you in this direction. This could create a dangerous precedent in special terms. I am referring, for example, to the two other great wine producers in the world, which, as we know, together with Italy are Spain and France, since we alone cover more than 50% of the world's wine production. What could be Château Lafite or Champagne? What could be traditional wines, if you open the door to a drift of this type? Where do quality and consumer protection go, as Senator Taricco rightly said? Where does the credibility of products go, especially Italians, but also at European level, where there are also excellences? Minister, we really invite you to team up with France, Spain and all the countries that have every interest in fighting together. Someone has pointed out the idea that Europe is selling out. Europe is not selling out anything, but it has just received a question: it has to receive it, the public and there are sixty days to appeal. We will appeal and the Government will oppose, as the Minister has already said in principle, and today it will be able to say that with the unanimous support of all political forces, because the defence of this flag product for us is absolutely central. So, Minister, you and the government will have us behind you to help you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u22	She's registered to speak Senator De Petris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u23	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his information, for the important elements that he has brought here, for his commitment to counter this request, which, as we have heard from today's speeches, I believe is shared by all political forces and by the whole of this House, but also for the approach that has been taken and which will be given to this battle, which is now legal, at European level. The data that the Minister has brought us tell us that the Prosecco story is a very successful story, which, among other things, in a very few years, has led to truly impressive and important numbers. I would like to reiterate here that, in all these years, we have perhaps been the first to bring a reflection and also to wage a great battle in this sense within the European Union, not only generically on denominations, but on the strong link between products and territorial identity. Minister, this was the point on which Italy, even through different governments, distinguished itself in Europe and for a very simple reason. I remember, for example, the first battles on labels, in which Italy was practically alone at first. Today things are very different, because, with the defense of the identity and the name of our products, we carry on the model of our agriculture, indeed, I dare say of our agriculture, which are closely linked to the identity of the territory. In the case of Prosecco, it is not only the story of a success, but also of a territory. It is no coincidence, among other things, that the value of that territory has been recognised by UNESCO, which has included the hills of Prosecco on the list of World Heritage. This is the other element. These two issues, the defence of the name of the mark and that of the territory, are absolutely and closely linked. It is the defence of a productive world, composed of many companies and a lot of work, but also of consumers. This is a further element: our products in the world are victims of what is called Italian sounding; this is unfortunately one of the elements that distinguish the assault on our products. Why the italian sinking? Because this is the trait of Italian identity and quality of our products. You rightly said that we are only at the beginning and that the request has not yet been published. I think we have good legal elements. I would like to remind you, among other things, that we too were somehow required not to use the term "champenois method " anymore; and it was an assonance, to make us understand. I believe that the most important fact, from this point of view and from the legal point of view, was the judgment of the European Court of Justice - which you mentioned a moment ago, Minister - which had been very clear in the case between France and Spain concerning the Champanillo case. What do European judges say? The European Regulation protects PDO productions from conducts relating to both products and services; therefore, in the case of PGI and PDO products, their names cannot be mentioned. The elements contained in this sentence, in my opinion, are the basis on which we can effectively carry out our battle. I believe however - and it has done well who has emphasized it before - that, besides the legal battle, it is important to realize campaigns in order to defend the identity of our products and their bond with the territory (we have done it several times in all these years, also with the agricultural professional organizations), in order to defend ourselves from the Italian sounding, in order to involve the consumers. We need a political and cultural battle, to defend interests that are not only of a territory or a country, but of European and international consumers. This is an absolutely central element, because we live in a world where everything is homologated: this is the point. Going to the various capitals, you will find the same shops in the center of Rome. The distinctive feature of our agricultural model and approach are the diversity and originality of these products, as well as their deep connection with the territories, which guarantees consumers, but above all the non-approval, in an era of globalization of everything we eat, how we dress and often also how we think. I believe that this is an absolutely fundamental element. The story of Prosecco's success is today the spearhead of the success of all our wines, which, Minister, comes from the tragedy of methanol. In this, our producers were very good: we focused everything solely on quality and we won this battle. Also on Prosecco today I think we are working: as you know, the danger of monoculture is remarkable; many producers, in fact, are also becoming the tip of diamond of a process that focuses in a spasmodic way on the quality of both the territory where it is cultivated and of the product itself. This is the central element and I agree that we can win the legal battle, because we have the elements both in the European regulation and in the rulings of the European Court of Justice. I also believe that we must continue and we can win the battle we have been fighting against Italian soiling for years, not only for the defence of our agriculture, but also for the idea of an agricultural and productive model and a quality of products that cannot be found anywhere, but that have a deep connection with a land. These are the cultural battle and the strong cultural trait that we must carry on. Today the speeches mean that the entire Assembly will be with you and with the Government to carry out this battle against yet another misappropriation of our brands. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u24	Senator Caliguri is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u25	Mr President, Minister, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, with little wonder, in my opinion, this is the year of Prosecco. It has reached a total of 600 million bottles produced in nine provinces of the Italian North-East, which boasts three designations of origin. It is a real wine-making universe, which during the pandemic months distinguished itself by a good and innovative supply chain; it resisted the shock of the markets and even increased sales, opening up to new channels such as e-commerce or app. There was also a boom for Prosecco rosé, which with 37 million bottles sold in six months confirms itself as a product of excellence, especially loved in the United States and Germany, the United Kingdom and the Far East. Minister, this is not only resilience, but entrepreneurial capacity, pragmatism and foresight, which make Prosecco the only and only product that is inimitable and demand worldwide. As happens for many Italian products, however, the revenues deriving from business go down to many. This is the turn of Croatia, which tries. This week we are discussing the possibility of recognition of the Croatian Prošek. The Minister did well to remember the episode of Tocai, when the use of the name was forbidden in our country. What bothers me, however, and, I believe, on the basis of what we have heard, is that all our colleagues are once again in this House complaining about what could be a dangerous precedent to the detriment of Made in Italy. Some think that there is no risk of confusion between Prosecco and Prošek. I don't think so. If anything, there is no risk of confusion for the connoisseurs of Prosecco, but think of a consumer who looks for the first time on the myriad of wines on the market: probably accustomed to the wine that generally in Italy, as the grandmothers would say, is used in the kitchen, but with which one does not toast, having often heard of Prosecco, decides to go to the supermarket and try the Prošek, cheaper and almost similar name. He will find himself drinking a still wine and will not try the experience of our precious bubbles, which always accompany the beautiful moments and to remember; in fact, he will drink a sweet passito, which has nothing to do with the dry characteristics of our Italian Prosecco; for him that will be simply Prosecco, regardless of whether he will eventually appreciate the product or not. The reasoning, however, is even more indignant because it would cause considerable damage to our exporting producers. I do not think I am wrong when I say that, if the Croatian request were to be accepted, we would be faced, as my colleagues have already said, with a real phenomenon of Italian soiling legalized by Europe. All this would be unacceptable, given and considering that the Italian sounding generates a business tour to the detriment of the Italian producers from 100 billion per year. What will happen after the Prošek? Are we going to give a strong hand to products like Parmsan or Pomarola sauce? Absolutely not: that's why the Prošek is a precedent to avoid. What's there to do? I am sure you will continue to talk about this, Minister: the debate must never fade away. In addition, in the European context, we must make a full appeal to all our reasoned objections, in order to make the Commission understand that it is behind the simplicity of a name that calls for the reputations and revenues of an Italian sector that drives GDP. It is also essential to try to make it clear that, when it comes to Italian products, it is not necessary to do so lightly; rather, it is necessary to act on a common front at European level, in order to protect a sector, that of Italian agro-food, which even during the pandemic has allowed to bring on the tables of all European citizens, and not only, products of excellence and with very high quality standards. That is why we are always grateful to our entrepreneurs. Forza Italia is there, it is at your side and the entrepreneurs. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u26	Senator Vallardi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u27	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Patuanelli and Mr Centinario, who are here today, as well as my group leader Massimiliano Romeo and the Conference of Leaders, for we raised this problem last week and were able to come to this House immediately to address this very important issue. I would also like to thank my fellow senators who have spoken before me, because we are all united in one direction: the defence of Italian excellence in the world and Prosecco from the attacks of this initiative of Croatia which, through the European Community, seems to want to register the name of the Proš ek. This is absolutely not good for us, because in our territories we have invested a lot and behind the bottle of Prosecco there are a history, a great job and a lot of companies: we have a really remarkable quantity of producers even in the North East (we speak of Veneto and Friuli); we have 11,500 companies that all work in the Prosecco sector in 23,000 hectares, with an average area of two hectares for each company; we have young people who work in this sector and it is a very pleasant and innovative thing to have young people who come back to the land and believe in the future of their territory. [[Applause]] Allow me, Mr President, to show you a bottle of Prosecco.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u28	Senator Vallardi, please remove the bottle: you know you can't perform it in the Chamber; we all know it, it's UNESCO heritage, so we don't need to perform it.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u29	VALLARDI (L-SP-PSd'Az). I know that, Mr President, and thank you for that. I know you also come from one of the nine provinces authorized to produce Prosecco, that of Padua, so I know your attachment to the territory. [[Applause]] It is the Province of Padua, as well as those of Treviso, Belluno, Pordenone, Gorizia, Udine, Trieste, Venice and Vicenza. Prosecco is a resource for our territory and has also allowed farmers to recover economically, as well as being an excellence of Made in Italy. The numbers of the prosecco are exceptional we have seen a continuous increase. The numbers of Prosecco allow us to protect the environment as well. This has meant that the hills of the Prosecco di Valdobbiadene and Conegliano, as you rightly said - and I thank you for this on behalf of all my colleagues, because it really confirms that we are on the track - have been recognized as UNESCO heritage. There was the then minister and today undersecretary Centinario; there was our governor Luca Zaia, who and has worked very hard for the recognition of the hills of Prosecco as a UNESCO heritage. [[Applause]] I think it is definitely a flagship of Italianity in the world. UNESCO recognizes our hills as a heritage of humanity, and that is the substance of it in the end, but then we see that the European Commission - we heard this morning - makes it possible to lodge an application for protection of the traditional term Prošek. I thank Mr Patuanelli for the fact that we are all working in the same direction. I would also like to thank him - I have already said this and I repeat this today - for the speed with which he has come to this House. I also thank him, because it seems that we are actually on the piece, at least from the legal and legislative point of view. However, I am a little concerned, because I do not know what the Croatians are actually doing with European Commissioner Janusz Wojciechowski: getting to know the news when it is published means that they have been working on this issue for some time. I come from the province of Treviso and, as Minister Patuanelli knows very well, who is Friulian, our territories have been burned in the past. I am a farmer who cultivated Tocai Friulano and I remember thirty years ago the Hungarians took it away from us, so the perception of the danger that exists in our territories is really high, because we have these memories. We had the barbatelle, the Tocai plants, while the Hungarians also have the Region and the city of Tokaji, so in time it was considered right that the Tokaji should go to Hungary. I address Minister Patuanelli: today we have the Barbatelle del Prosecco; historically we have a certain rooting in the territory and for five hundred years we know that the urban center of Prosecco, as was said, is a fraction of the Municipality of Trieste, so we also have the city. The beards started from Friuli-Venezia Giulia and then slowly came to Conegliano-Valdobbiadene, where, perhaps thanks to the climate, they are slightly more luxuriant. Today therefore we have all the numbers so that Prosecco can remain and make economy in our territory. However, I would like to draw the attention of the whole House to the fact that, from the legal point of view, I believe that we are actually doing everything, from the political point of view, in my opinion, there is some small agreement. Last week, to be precise Friday, I went to Croatia, to the city of Rovinj, with some friends and I saw that the Prošek already have it ready.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u30	Please, Senator Vallardi, it seems to me that there is nothing to celebrate from what emerged from the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u31	VALLARDI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Madam President, I have allowed myself to show a bottle, which I will then give to Mr Patuanelli, because the Croatians are already ready. The bottles of Prošek already have them, with this wording. Prosecco also mentally for us is a feast, joy and happiness and I am convinced that we will definitely continue to sell a lot and that we will also increase sales. So I don't think so much about the danger of Prošek's sale, because if Prosecco is joy, happiness, toast, party, being together and toasting, in the evening, maybe as a couple, Prošek as sounding I think it evokes more a good digestive: if you have stomach ache, with two glasses of Prošek maybe you feel better. [[Applause]] So that is not the danger. The danger, Minister, lies in the fact that, if the wording Prošek passes, we open a hole in the dam, the one that is currently protecting all the Italian soiling and it is to safeguard all the Italian products that we are ensuring with the consortia of protection. [[Applause]] At this moment in my imagination I see the Croatians, together with the European Commissioner (who, until proven otherwise, does not seem to be very friendly), making a hole in this dam. Minister Patuanelli, Undersecretary Centinario, I know you are working very well, but we are here, for what we can do. We're supposed to be a Roman armed phalanx and you're our diamond tip. We must succeed, in this battle of Italianity, in defending Prosecco. [[Applause. Senator Zuliani shows a bottle..]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u32	Please, let's not celebrate anything. Colleagues, you can't and you know it.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u33	Senator Puglia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u34	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your presence and your prompt intervention. Colleagues, we have already spoken and reflected on some things. What we are discussing is in danger of being a very dangerous precedent on the model of denomination. We know, in fact, that behind this model there are cultural traditions and guarantee of transparency and quality for the consumer. If we start to bring down this model, a guarantee system collapses and as it is happening for this product, it can happen to many others. Minister, you mentioned earlier the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 9 September, which speaks of abusive evocation. In this sentence we read that abusive evocation is configured every time there is a phonetic and visual affinity between denominations. Imagine the Cerasuol, Montepulchiano, The Haguenic, Ciros, Grek de Tuf, Sangioves, Ribollen and so on. We have more than 315 Italian DOCs and, therefore, you could go on. What is happening at Prosecco could also happen to the other denominations of which I made an overfalciated mention, but with a phonetic affinity that will become visual when bottles are produced, as President Vallardi showed us. This is certainly a great danger to our economy. Italy is recognized worldwide not only for its quality of manufacture and culture, but also - and above all - for the quality of the agricultural product, including wine. I am sincerely relieved of what the Minister has just learned in his information. For the Prošek issue, it is essential - and it is already working - that the Ministry intervenes in the appropriate fora in the next sixty days. For Parliament and for us, as a political force, it will be essential to lower the flags, all going in the same direction, because we are one country. [[Applause]] Just as the activation of the technical table to support Italian Prosecco producers in the appeal against the EU Commission will be crucial and crucial. Obviously, when drawing up documents, those who do themselves do not really do much, as I have been taught by a great mind, and in this case the Ministry will realize the technical table through those who work within the sector and the sector, therefore the consortia. It is in fact absurd to think that even at the preparatory stage of the entire registration procedure in Europe of Prošek, the EU Commission has nevertheless granted the first yes towards what is in fact the violation of the prohibition of using names that evoke other products with a protected designation of origin (PDO). This violation - I repeat, as the Minister has done - occurs whenever a consumer can be deceived at the time of purchase; here is everything. This is precisely how it is a real fraud against consumers, who, at the time of purchase, despite the fact that the products are of different quality, are misled by the homonymous name used and by the similarity that derives from it. The issue we are discussing shows that the principle of protection of excellence, of which designations are the highest expression at European level, is often affected. We certainly cannot afford not to defend our preciousness in the face of the various and not rare attacks on the part of those who in fact implement genuine practices of unfair competition. This is unfair competition. Also because it is necessary to consider how for the production of wines PDO and with a typical geographical indication (IGT) a whole series of requirements must be observed, which are reviewed over time in an increasingly stringent way. We therefore call for an ever stronger link with the territory from which they come, of which we were the victims, as we have said several times in relation to Tocai Friulano, because it had a name too similar to the Hungarian and Slovak Tokaji and we had to take a step back with our name. But now we have to take five steps forward and whoever is doing this wrong practice has to take five steps back instead. It is therefore expected that in the face of such requirements regarding the nature, quality and true origin of the product, incorrect practices such as such a case of homonymousness cannot be admitted. I would say that would be a great contradiction, clear and visible to all. In conclusion, a historical name such as that represented by Prosecco DOC and Prosecco with a controlled and guaranteed designation of origin (DOCG), as well as all European denominations and protected excellences, must be protected together with the guarantee for the consumer and the protection of the territory and traditions. I am therefore confident, like the Minister, about the happy ending of this absurd affair. Thank you, Minister, for what you're doing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u35	I declare closed the debate on the information of the Minister for Agricultural Food and Forestry Policy, whom I thank for his willingness.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u36	10:54 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u37	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2353, already approved by the House of Deputies. The President of the Second Permanent Commission, Senator Ostellari, may speak to report on the Commission's work.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u38	Mr President, yesterday the work in the Commission did not go ahead and, having also taken note of the deadline set for today for the debate on the measure in this House, it was impossible for us to conclude them. I would therefore ask you to continue examining the measure without report.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, in relation to Senator Ostellari's report, the draft law No 2353, since the examination has not been completed in the Commission, will be discussed in the text transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies without report, pursuant to Rule 44 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. He's enlisted to speak Senator Crucioli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u40	Mr President, the absence of the government in this House at the moment shows, in a plastic way, the slap that the Commission intended to slap this House. Yesterday we were forced not to discuss the amendments or vote on them, and they do not even appear today.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u41	Senator Crucioli, I'm gonna interrupt you just to point out that the government representative is here.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u42	CRUCIOLI (Misto-l'A.c'è-LPC). I do now. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I must point out that it was before, you may have missed it. You can continue your speech. CRUCIOLI (Misto-l'A.c'è-LPC). It would have been at least a sign of attention if the Undersecretary had been present for justice, however we move forward. In any case, Mr President, the reform responds exactly to the concept of criminal justice that this Government has, that is, it should only affect the social partners, the loose dogs, the unfortunate ones, who can go to jail, while white collars, politicians, administrators, the rich in short, must be protected and must have ample opportunities for immunity. The reform does exactly this: it allows very precise windows of impunity, moreover in perfect harmony with the idea of this Government in all sectors, which is precisely elitist and distinguishes subjects by census. It is a matter of subjects, in fact, at this moment. The reform under discussion guarantees pockets of immunity in many ways: for example by extending the plea, extending (in favour of the guilty person of course) the effects on ancillary penalties, confiscation and extrapenal effects of the sentence. In addition, for example, it extends the scope of the causes of non-perpetuality by particular reason of the fact. I shall list, Mr President, some of these crimes which may not now be punished if they are particularly mild. You tell me whether the incitement to corruption, false testimony, the induction to make false statements to the judicial authority, the facilitation to the communications of prisoners to 41- bis, environmental pollution, illicit trafficking of waste, the material and ideological falsehood committed by public officials in public acts, the exploitation of work, the scam aggravated for the achievement of public disbursements, usury and self-recycling. All these are crimes that are punished with a penalty not higher, at least, than two years. Of course, the maximum is much higher, but there is the escamotage to change. Before, in fact, non-penalty was for penalties not exceeding, in the maximum, five years. Now it is said: in the minimum of two, by bringing back all this range of crimes that, of course, depending on the cases and who is in the network, can be declared not punishable by particular reason of the fact. You've heard the types of crimes we're talking about. Again, the impellability of some sentences of acquiescence extends. You're being acquitted in the first degree? The prosecutor can't appeal. Again, the suspension of criminal proceedings is extended with the trial of the defendant for punishment up to six years. Therefore, even for very serious crimes there may be a suspension with testing. All this, of course, creates pockets of impunity, and removes the ability to deter the penal code from those who could think twice before committing crimes and who will know perfectly well that they can get away with it. The prison is intended, basically, only for the poor. The masterpiece, in this sense, is precisely the improcability to exceed the term of duration of the appeal or appeal in Cassation. It is true that there are possibilities for extensions, but, in order to be able to justify and obtain the extension, the judge will have to make a specific, precise and precise decision on the basis of the particular complexity of the process. It will not suffice to justify the complexity of the process, but it will have to be demonstrated that it is particularly complex. And on that reason and on that provision may be appealed in cassation. Therefore, it is easy to imagine that, for all the crimes, including those of the Mafia, where there is the possibility of extension and there must always be this motivation, rei, who have also been convicted at first instance, will certainly appeal. And in cassation we will discuss not whether they are guilty or innocent, but whether the motivation to request the extension has been correct, punctual and will have shown that there was a particular complexity. The icing on the cake in this structure, in this precise idea of justice that this Government has is the following: the prosecutors are subjected to the policy instructions in order to grade the crimes that will have to be prosecuted. The concept is obvious. The concept is that, in the absolutely centralizing idea of the power that this Government has, and that this majority is suffering without even being able to understand it, it is wanted that the judiciary cannot be a fully autonomous power. We want to reduce all powers to one beam; we want all citizens to one beam. Parliament must be aligned, parties must be aligned. What does this remind you of? Who is it that has taken inspiration from the concept that everyone must be aligned like narrow beams in a charm? Mr President, at this point I must also say a few words about how this debate took place. We are talking about a reform that will have disastrous consequences in practice, but even more disastrous from the point of view of the signal given to society, from a cultural point of view. I repeat, in fact, that here the will is precisely that, in all the pieces, to say: the government said, Parliament executes. And what does the government say? That's exactly what said: two speeds, two types of justice. For the rich and the powerful, immunity and impunity. For the poor, woe; for the poor prison and, possibly, for the fast trial. In that case, yes. In fact, one tries to confuse ideas with people, saying that these principles are for deflation of judgment, to speed up processes. No, that is not the case; they are to create impunity for some and this is done by shaving Parliament and the Commission to zero. This was also the case in the House: in the House of Trust, in the Senate, trust and slap, because in the Commission yesterday it was time to talk about the amendments and immediately, on the same day, at the Conference of the Leaders, all the parliamentary leaders, caught by the Government, decided that the next day they would go to the House to vote again on the question of trust. Yesterday we did not vote for one amendment: is that the concept of Parliament? And you, President, do nothing to defend him? We are setting an example that will be remembered in the future. This is a tragic clown and since this Parliament is becoming a circus that only crushes buttons, there are no clowns and circuses without balloons. (Senator Crucioli shows a sign and some balloons.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u43	I call on Parliament's assistants to intervene immediately and on Senator Crucioli to lower the cartels, which are an expression of his fantasy. Senator Crucioli, I invite you to facilitate the intervention of the assistants, otherwise this becomes a formal reminder, with all the consequences of the case. Senator Crucioli, I would not have to invite you to leave the Chamber. I'm gonna suspend the session for five minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 11.07 a.m. and resumed at 11.12 a.m.) Let's resume our work. Senator Modena is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u44	Mr President, I would first like to focus on the work of the Commission on justice, which in this period has fulfilled its commitments with a great sense of responsibility and for this reason I believe that we should also thank President Ostellari, given - and this must be said - that we are now close to the budgetary session and therefore it would certainly not have been a responsible attitude not to take account of the timetables, which have not fallen from above, but are specific commitments that our country has made with regard to the acts relating to the government programme and therefore also to the recovery fund. The intervention that I have heard before leads me to make a small assessment, because I have clearly in mind how it was approved - that night in the Commission was also present Senator Vitali - the so-called scrubbed-out decree, which I prefer to call "scatter justice." I am saying this because I do not believe that we can accept lessons of so-called parliamentary democracy from those who designed that kind of legislation, assuming commitments that were then disregarded. [[Applause]] I have to say that. I would also like to thank - as I did yesterday with the Undersecretary Macina - the Undersecretary Sisto for the work he has done, because it is not true that there has been no deepening or discussion: anyone who has the desire and the time to read the House's public parliamentary acts, which account for the debate and the work in the Commission, can well understand the extent of the work carried out, especially beyond the last mediations related to the imperviousness of the construction of a text that in a certain sense finally sets a balance point, especially with regard to the point of maximum balance that is the Constitution for us. Finally, we return to Article 27, with reference to the presumption of non-guilty and the re-educational function of the sentence, and to Article 111 on the reasonable duration of the trial and on the right trial. It is clear that the text has been built with great difficulty, because the majority that supports the Government is varied, but this is not an element that must be conceived as a disvalue; indeed, for me it is exactly the opposite. We have started the legislature with a very high conflict on these issues; a very high conflict has continued, and today, instead, we are here to discuss a point of balance, which can satisfy or not. Forza Italia also said this during the debate in the Chamber in the speeches that followed: he would have preferred some more rules, but, regardless of this, he assumed the responsibility to find a shared text. For example, we certainly would have preferred to make progress on some issues such as the media process, because the problem is not to be rich or poor in the face of justice; the problem is of those who have a name that makes a stir in the newspapers and, without having had in fact even a rag of judgment at first instance, finds themselves ruined by a media process and no one can repay it. We have seen parades of politicians that have been acquitted after having a reputation, career and family ruined, even in the last few weeks. The reform that we are about to adopt, as I said, is an important achievement as an assumption of responsibility. There has been a lot of talk about a number of issues, but I leave it to those who, perhaps, have a more careful criminalist culture; I would like to remind them of the importance of this reform with regard to other aspects that perhaps have been less talked about. It is a delegation law that contains a number of precise indications, for example, in relation to the telematic criminal process and the malfunctioning of it. I would like to remind you that criminals and criminal chambers have often intervened on this issue, because a process that is well done, nowadays cannot ignore all those measures that concern digitisation, which speed up and simplify procedures in themselves. This delegation is complete from this point of view and examines the various aspects that need to be highlighted. There is also another very important concept. I think of the past (I don't mean years because I went to university, but let's talk about a long time ago), the famous hearing, which today has become only a filter hearing related to referral to trial, which had to serve to put points with reference to the progress of the trial. Today, with the principle of reasonable prediction of condemnation, we return to that direction for it to be implemented, not because we are simply faced with a letterhead, to understand ourselves, or with a copy-paste, but rather with a more serious analysis on which to base the will to refer a person to trial or not. Equally important is the part - on which the Minister has insisted very much, and I think it is right that the House remembers it - which concerns remedial justice, because it is undoubtedly an innovative model and in some respects perhaps even culturally complex, however, as the world of crime is wide and varied, when we talk about a "resolution" that the victim and the offender go to identify, we must consider that it is an advanced form of regulation of relations in the field of criminal law. I also believe that with the legislative decrees concerning this part of the reforms - I stress that this is a part, because of course, as we know, there is an extremely complex framework - we have the certainty, or rather the tranquility of the end of a period. When I began reading the first statements by the Minister and the Undersecretary concerning the draft law delegates to our examination, I told myself that this period is over or at least that a different moment is being routed. Those who have memory will remember that, with the start of the current legislature, it was thought that perhaps, removed from the middle the conflict in particular between Forza Italia and the judiciary, would resolve everything. Instead, this legislature has shown exactly the opposite: conflict has been very high and, in some respects, we can safely say that the judiciary has imploded; a number of problems have emerged and a series of veils have been ripped apart. All this gives us reason, even if late, but the fundamental point is that the road has changed or in any case tried to do so, imagining that the accused, of a simple crime or a complex crime, is not a subject to be burned in the public square, to give joy to those who come to see the stake, but is a person who from the State must have a fair, fair, rational and, above all, reasonable trial. This has been an important turning point for me and I hope that the country, which finally has the opportunity to move on this road, which is at least rational and placed in the hive in the Constitution, will not abandon it and continue to follow this type of indication. This is indeed legal civilization: the rest is not so much and merely judicialism, but a politician of justice, which is a phase that I hope, for myself, for all of you and for the generations to come, is over or is about to end. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u45	She is registered to speak Senator Evangelista. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u46	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, in the political debate we often hear that the main purpose of the delegation law for the reform of the criminal process is to respond to an explicit request, addressed to Italy by the European Union, that is to solve the fundamental problem of the excessive duration of judgments, which we then know always resolves in denigated justice, and this in order to make the country more attractive to investors and thus promote economic recovery. In fact, this is a reform that the citizens are asking us first of all, which for twenty years now have been witnessing a slow decline in the justice system, emptied of all resources and collapsed, with too slow and too numerous trials, as evidenced by the 1,202 sentences imposed on Italy to date by the European Court of Human Rights, for the violation of the principle of the reasonable duration of the trial. The length of time is always a very serious damage to the victim, who has a legitimate right to compensation, but also to the defendant, who cannot be acquitted after twenty or thirty years, but - attention! - not even condemned, since it is conceivable that, over a long period of time, there has been a change in his personality. So with the previous government, Count II, but also with the current one we have tried to solve the malfunction of the justice system on the criminal side, also in this case with a huge plan of ordinary hirings, for about 21 million, to which are added the extraordinary ones, for 18 million. But resources are not enough to reform justice. A new way of understanding the organisation of judicial offices and justice itself is also needed: not all the workload on the individual magistrate or the college, but on the staff of the magistrate, with the establishment of the court office. The magistrate no longer works alone, but makes use of the contribution of different professionalities, both technical and legal, thanks to young and fresh resources. Hence the start, just these days, of the recruitment plan for the trial office. This delegation law also provided for an organic discipline of the new institute of reparational justice: a new and concrete way of conceiving a response to justice, in the interest of the victim and of the deed, a real act of social and legal civilization. It is provided for in the law to delegate the possibility of access to remedial justice programmes in every state and degree of the proceedings and even during the execution of the sentence, without preclusions in relation to the crime and its gravity. We have also foreseen a new concept of the victim's family, which will no longer be just the spouse, but also the part of a civil union, relatives in a straight line (brothers and sisters) and the dependents of the victim. In this connection, I would also like to remind you of an agenda which was first signed by the Commission as a whole yesterday evening, so that all remedial justice programmes are free of charge. With regard to the need to speed up the criminal process, the delegation law provides for a strengthening of alternative rites (pact, abbreviated judgment), in order to make them more and more appealing, with a deflective effect on the debate rite. It is finally expected to promote the digitisation of the criminal process, with the filing of documents and documents by electronic means and communications and notifications transmitted via JEP. In addition, the scope of the complaint is extended for offences punished with no more than two years' imprisonment, and institutions of non-perpetuality, such as the fact of the matter, as well as the testing, are strengthened; measures aimed at deflating the use of criminal proceedings in its entirety, but - attention - always excluding particularly serious crimes, and I would like to emphasise in particular the offences of domestic violence. In this regard, I would also like to mention another rule included - finally - in the reform, that of compulsory arrest in flagrant cases for violation of the provisions of removal from the family house and prohibition of approaching the places visited by the person of offense. On this too there was a bill of mine deposited in the Senate and I am therefore very pleased that the provision has entered into the reform of Cartabia [[Applause]] , which, among other things, finally fills a gap in the code red; it is a fundamental norm to stop all those crimes that precede the feminicide. We then thought of extending the scope of the red code also to victims of domestic violence in attempted form and victims of attempted murder (i.e. feminicide). The law delegation of reform of the criminal process also affects the phase of preliminary investigations, also making the exercise of prosecution subject to transparent and predetermined priority criteria, which will be identified by law of the Parliament. This is a rule that, among other things, we had already included in the code red; the law is called its own code red, because it provided for a preferential lane for domestic violence offences. Another very important novelty is the extraordinary appeal to the Court of Cassation to implement the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights: a new means of appeal, which, however, fills an Italian gap of more than twenty years. Mr President, I would like to conclude by recalling the pathological phase, the one that led to the new institute of improvisation. Remember that with the reform Cartabia has been preserved and kept the norm of the law anticorruption n. 3 of 2019, according to which the course of the prescription of the crime stops after the sentence of first degree is that the accused is acquitted that condemned. With regard to appeals, the Cartabia reform added a new mechanism for the declaration of inadmissibility of the prosecution for exceeding the maximum period of the appeal: two years on appeal and one year in cassation. By the way, these are the same terms as the Pinto law. On this reform the Movimento 5 Stars intervened heavily with the collaboration of other political forces to introduce corrective measures. Today, therefore, the time limits for appeals may be extended by the court in any criminal proceedings in the following cases: complexity by number of parts of the charges; number and complexity of the factual and legal questions to be dealt with. In addition, transitional rules have been laid down, i.e. the new rules on inadmissibility will apply only in appeal proceedings involving offences committed since January 2020. For these proceedings, however, if the appeal is brought by 31 December 2024, the maximum period of validity of the judgments shall be three years respectively for the appeal and one and a half years for the Cassation. Above all we have demanded - we have managed to introduce them - some extensions regarding particularly serious crimes such as crimes for the purposes of terrorism and exversion, mafia association and political-mafia electoral exchange, aggravated sexual violence and drug trafficking. In such cases, the time limit may be extended without time limits. For crimes aggravated by the Mafia method, you can reach a maximum duration of the appeal to five years and for the Cassation to two years and six months. The maximum duration of the appeal proceedings shall not apply in proceedings punishable by life imprisonment, even with the effect of the application of aggravating circumstances and when the defendant waives it. Mr President, this is a new way of understanding the criminal trial. It is a way that imposes a change of pace for all the subjects who are its protagonists (magistracy and lawyering), that will certainly work in some parts of the territory, but that in others could also leave pockets of impunity. If that is the case, we will immediately need a new legislative intervention to correct its malfunctions and we will be ready to do so. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u47	She's enlisted to speak Senator Garnet. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u48	Mr President, today we are debating a reform of the criminal trial that had a genesis with Minister Bonafede, but that with the Government Draghi has arrived at a totally distorted solution with respect to the original plant. Unfortunately, at this time, there has been a change in the political project that had had the popular mandate in favour of a project by the Commission now run by technicians within the justice mechanism. I am referring, for example, to Mr Sisto, who we know has also worked well in the defence of former President Silvio Berlusconi. A reform has been given birth that upsets the constitutional mechanism of criminal justice for several orders of reasons. First of all, it transforms the concept of justice into a function which clearly invests money, resources and energy in order to guarantee the maintenance of the social pact and the rule of law in a kind of company to deal with practices. To this is reduced what once had to be criminal justice: a sort of agency to deal with practices. This reform is launched with great speed, with forced stages in the two branches of Parliament, so both in the House and in the Senate. In the Senate he had a very fast passage because of the agreement between the Leaders, intervened in defense of the government diktat, to arrive at a definitive landing place very quickly, on the pretext of linking the reform with the measures of the National Plan for Recovery and Resilience. Parliament has not been able to express itself clearly either in one branch or another, with all the richness of debate and discussion that would have been indispensable for giving birth to a reform that would truly guarantee justice to all citizens, and not only by putting in place strategies to guarantee impunity to some, as happened in this case. The abolition of the limitation at the end of the first degree of judgment was safeguarded, which was introduced to satisfy the 5 Star Movement, which had to show a result in some way in front of its acolytes, having to justify the accession to this Government and, therefore, the participation of some Ministers within the ranks of the Executive. But in reality an even more perverse institute has been introduced, that of improbability, that puts a trap to the criminal processes in second degree and in Cassazione, according to the timing of the performance of the two degrees of judgment: two years in appeal, one year in Cassation. Any request for extensions, which may not exceed two years, may only be requested through judicial procedures. Therefore, the trials, instead of shortening, are extended because they are always enriched with new requests for extensions and postponements, and the defendants are encouraged, who know very well that they can not effectively assert their reasons through the judicial offices, to resort in all the degrees of judgment and ordinary rites, because only those can guarantee the so-called leghold, that is that the trial at a certain point decays and therefore no longer remains trace of the crime (when the Constitution imposes the obligation of prosecution), and no longer remains trace on the criminal record. Let us think - for example - of how many politicians would have been affected by the Severino law and should have interrupted their brilliant careers, carried forward to the detriment of the community. This is your beautiful reform, which is against collective interest; a reform that does not give justice, but denies it; a reform that, under the pretext of efficient procedural practices - because this is the case - ultimately denies effectiveness to justice and also denies its meaning. Justice that is not celebrated is in fact a denied justice and that is what you are doing to Italian citizens. You have denied those who rightly thought that they would not undergo experimental health treatment the freedom to do so. You have denied the possibility for ordinary Italian citizens to have criminal justice. You have denied the possibility to the victims to see justice celebrated for any wrongs and damages suffered. You have taken away trust in the rule of law, because we are all now convinced that we do not live in a rule of law. You have broken the social pact that binds society, so keeping an ethically and legally valid conduct is now mandatory only for those who do not then have the tools to defend themselves in the courts of that congress, asserting their rights as citizens. You have therefore reduced the rights of citizenship to all levels and you have obtained permanent immunity, as well as guaranteeing it with the criminal shield to all those who today, practically, by your delegation, are acting, discriminating against people, abusing their role in carrying out harmful and criminal acts. You are therefore practically protecting a system that is managed for the use and consumption of a heterodirect oligarchy, the one represented precisely by the current Government, to which all political forces pay tribute and the national media, paid with the taxpayers' money, are of regime and absolutely complacent. A free voice then rises in this House to shout: "Shame!" [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u49	She's enlisted to speak Senator Abbot. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u50	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the reform of justice is currently under way. Of course, to say that there is a debate is a big statement because, while at the moment the political leaders - I see that the Senate House is also half empty - are engaged in campaigning in the streets, based almost on the philosophy of the most beautiful, the sex symbol, here in Parliament, in the Italian Parliament's classrooms, to which the Constitution attaches the legislative function, democracy is being killed. The debate on this important reform has been prevented in the committees responsible, because the amendments have not even been read and discussed, and it is also being prevented today, because we know that the government will put confidence on this reform three times. This reform should be stopped, which will not improve Italian justice, but will compromise it. That the planned reorganization of criminal law presents more shadows than lights I do not say, although humbly I would have some competence to do so. This is said by authoritative magistrates and operators who are at the forefront, in the trenches every day to fight organized crime and all the evil present in Italy. Beyond any political controversy, we must reason on objective data. It is no coincidence that people like Gratteri and Di Matteo, whose titles are useless to enunciate since they are now known to anyone. During a recent interview Nicola Gratteri, the anti-mafia prosecutor, commented on the reform Cartabia in a direct and without frills, saying clearly that it is the worst reform since it is in the judiciary and calling it devastating and harmful. These are two terms that honestly tremble the veins. According to Gratteri, with the reform of the prescription wanted by the minister Cartabia, 50 percent of the processes will end up under the ax of impeccability. The concern that manifests is that even the seven maxi trials against the 'ndrangheta that are being celebrated are at risk. The problem, however, would concern not only mafia processes, but also crimes against administration and the environment. I remember that environmental crimes are that star that so many people in this House have forgotten. This is a step backwards, not a reform. Matthew says that the approval of the reform with the mechanism of impeccability for the course of time in appeal and Cassazione risks marking a serious defeat for justice, with the consequence that the reform even risks strengthening the criminal powers that have always posed themselves as a regulator of conflicts of society. The distinction between one Court of Appeal and another, or the finding - aberrant from my point of view - of setting up a Commission for justice in the South, is of little or no use to me because it is assumed that justice in the South is not properly managed. This is done without considering the closure of the courts with the reorganization of judicial geography or the insufficient staff of the courts. Instead of innovating this justice and making it more useful to citizens, it is taking a step backwards. We voted by singing the Bonafede reform, which was also a strong signal that we gave. Now, for consistency, we should not go back to our steps, but we are. Instead of confirming and perfecting a reform of justice - I am referring to that of Bonafede, which was also started - all the work done in recent years and also the important results achieved and that have cost the lives of many Falcones and Borsellino are being destroyed. Colleagues, dynamite to justice can be put in many ways. I would like to go down - humbly and in view of what I feel in my sense as a provincial lawyer - in detail the major problems that the reform presents, but I do not do so because, at this point, it is not worth it and also because we are now faced with a farce, since Parliament is only called to ratify with a Bulgarian majority everything that comes from the Government. The hope is that this will soon end and Parliament will become again the place of confrontation and democracy where it promotes, discusses, debates and corrects itself in order to reach political and substantive decisions - I have a very secular vision of politics: politics is a service for the well-being of citizens and the nation - and it does not remain a place where decisions continue to be ratified. I would like to address all my fellow Members of common sense in this House: we can still stop. Let us stop this devastating reform of criminal law. It has also been said that Europe is not asking for this, that we are being asked for faster and fairer procedures, but not for improcability. Let us stop, colleagues: we are still in time. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u51	He's enlisted to speak Senator Dal Mas. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u52	Mr President, we are discussing the delegation law to the Government for the reform of the criminal trial, and there are not even 40 or 50 of us in this House. This is clearly what Parliament will be that someone wants, by introducing through digital signatures direct democracy, so dear to the friends of the Movimento 5 Stars, which - for goodness sake - has its own philosophy on which I have some concerns. Obviously, however, there is an indirect reason to believe that they would also be right, since there is no one here to discuss the reform of the criminal process. [[Applause]] I believe that the presidency of the Senate should make a point to all Members of Parliament. There is a question and a matter and the issue of reforming the criminal process is of concern to all citizens. Entering into the substance, it was said "factum infectum fieri nequit"; there is no remedy. Well, there is finally a remedy. The reform that we are discussing takes away and sweeps away from the so-called scrubbers, an abomination of law, suspension, so improperly called after the judgment of first degree of acquiescence of the trial, the so-called end trial never. It restores the substantive right and it is done using an ordinary clock and a clock on the sphere of Greenwich - allow me to express it - i.e. the prescription of the crime and the prescription of the trial relating to improcability, as provided for in Article 344 of the new coin, on which there will certainly also be problems of evaluation and inference with respect to substantive law and procedural law. I believe that the matter of limitation is a widely established subject in the case law and therefore some principles are intangible, even if we draw on the right to procedural law. The right to oblivion and time to surrender, which marks the life of each of us and makes it irrelevant in itself to seek criminality, with the exception of the most serious offenses, is restored by this delegated law. I therefore express great appreciation for the work that has been done. However, I must also point out that perhaps I did not take a few aspects into the so-called scrubber, which someone continues to celebrate. I remember that the Minister of Time when Law No. 3 of 2019 was passed had spoken of an epochal reform, except to correct himself immediately saying that however the prescription would come into force after a few years and the first effects would have been three or four years later. Of epochality there was only the disastrous scope of what he had introduced. [[Applause]] It is also disastrous that it is implied - and it is very dangerous - the inclusion of trawling through the Trojans, through the cyber-captors, also for crimes that have nothing to do with the most violent, the Mafia crimes, which are based on violence, but on crimes against the public administration. The misuse of the copycat, which is called a flawed copycat, can also be intercepted by trojans outside Article 12 of the Criminal Procedure Code. Do we want to put an end to this? [[Applause]] Did I say right, Mr Vitali? Do you agree? May I proceed? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Talk to the presidency, Senator Dal Mas. It is true that you are very kind, but I am sorry that Mr Crucioli is not here this morning, who gave his best - we know him - [[Applause]] and has ridiculed Parliament, but not knowing that it also ridiculed itself. Why isn't he here now? He should be here now, because those who claim lack of debate are the first to leave after his speech. And, therefore, you cannot say that it was an attack on democracy. Where were you? Where are you? You're four plucked cats. What do you want? [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u53	Senator Dal Mas, speak to the presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u54	[[Comments.]] My colleague has already been called back. BY MAS (FIBP-UDC). You're swollen balloons!
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u55	Senator Dal Mas, please: you have just referred to the dignity of Parliament, be it a consequence. Speak to the Presidency and do not force me to make a formal reference.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u56	They're colleagues who come here and let us work at 9:00 a.m. and then leave. You have to call them back! [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u57	Colleagues, the Presidency has already called to order and no one in this House is allowed to say anything about silence. Senator Dal Mas, you can continue. We trust in your quiet oratory.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u58	Mr President, we talked about wiretapping. The Constitution protects the secrecy of communications with a reserve of law and with a reserve of jurisdiction: we have lost all these things. I invite the government to think seriously about this. Undersecretary Macina, who is here, will do so with regard to my speech - perhaps - but this is an important issue. It is like the prescription; it is because we have extended the extended plea, which means not to create impunity, but to resolve issues that were open, for example the extrapenal effects of the plea. In that case, this measure will clarify these aspects. An enlargement of cases of non-perpetuality is introduced for particular reason. And we intervene in the appeal, introducing real filters and above all a fundamental principle, which has seen Forza Italia as the first political force to affirm with the Pecorella law, of which we claim goodness and purpose, the principle of the non-appellability of the judgments of first degree acquiescence with full formula. [[Applause]] Here is finally introduced the possibility for the legislator, in this case for the Government through the legislative decree, to introduce the non-appellability of the sentence of acquiescence for crimes punished with pecuniary penalty or alternative pecuniary penalty. It is already something; it is already a fact that those judgments of the Constitutional Court, which were clearly affected by a principle, have been overcome. (at 12:02 a.m.) (Followed by the MAS). I shall conclude my speech this morning - as my colleague, Mrs Modena, of whom I can only share her wish - considering that it is time to say that we have passed a dramatic phase of this parliamentary term, which began with the judicial rage, translating into a series of rules that we have known. It's an emblematic piece of garbage, an emblematic little party, organized by someone, where they said they had done justice. In fact, you've done injustice to normal people. You have done injustice to those who are offended. [[Applause]] I have one doubt. I don't fall in love with formulas much, and I don't believe in remedial justice. I find it difficult to apply the concept of remedial justice. We should understand the extent to which we can repair an evil immediately and an evil inflicted and I have doubts about it. I don't want to quote... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u59	Senator Dal Mas, I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u60	BY MAS (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, these are obviously such serious situations and such profound wrongs that they can never be compensated. But I recognize that there is an effort to introduce this principle.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u61	I'm asking you to talk about the order of business.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u63	VITALI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, we are discussing a reform that we can call epochal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Vitali, we're in general discussion. What is your request on the order of business? VITALI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I would like to request the presence of Mr Cartabia in the Chamber. Since we have not discussed anything here in the Senate Chamber, we would be pleased to have the Minister listen to our proposals. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Vitali, technically the government is represented. Its emphasis is fair and lawful, but the Government is represented in any case.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u66	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, as Vice-President Rossomando mentioned earlier, I would ask Members to be present at the debate on the substance of this reform. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, this is the Presidency's job. Why do you speak on the order of business? AIROLA (M5S). In this debate we are dealing - as has been said several times - with an issue that is not clear to the most, to the citizens who listen from outside. Now, if this reform is understood and - perhaps not today, but tomorrow - perfectible, it will depend on how much we will be present on the merits of the rules. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. This is an invitation that the Presidency makes to us. Senator La Mura is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u67	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, once again the legislator can only obsequiously approve the rules written by the Commission, without any possibility of exercising the functions which are recognized by the Constitution and which are exercised on behalf of the people and citizens. The measure came to the House and here in the Senate the Justice Commission did not have time to examine the many amendments tabled by Members: no comparison, no possibility of amending the text, no democracy. And this time there are not the needs of necessity and urgency that have justified, in recent months, the limitations to the parliamentary debate. We are not faced with a decree-law, but with a bill that wants to reform the criminal process, a matter that deals with fundamental freedoms and that requires more than ever weighting and comparison. The Cartabia reform affects fundamental principles of the criminal process: the principle of orality and mandatory prosecution. This reform is extremely critical, at least as far as I am concerned (then we are in Parliament and everyone has their own opinions), and it is precisely the experts, the magistrates, who say so; starting from Gratteri, who said that this is the worst reform of all and that if Falcone and Borsellino were alive they would jump out of the chair reading the term impeccable. Nino Di Matteo spoke of "mortification of the rights of the offended parties" and of a "diffuse sense of distrust of citizens towards justice." My colleague, Mrs Granato, also spoke about this and gave examples a few minutes ago. I believe that this reform wants to resolve the problems of justice by legitimizing the current shortcomings of the system. Are the trials long? All right, we're gonna get rid of them. Are there not the instruments necessary to guarantee the rights of the accused? We eliminate rights, of course. To these critical issues Left Italian has tried to remedy through in-depth elaborations and numerous amendments, submitted by me and colleagues Doriana Sarli, Paola Nugnes and Elena Fattori, in addition to an agenda, presented both to the Chamber and the Senate, which committed the Government to ensure the extension of the term of the judgment of appeal without time limits for the crime of environmental disaster, introduced in 2015 and provided for by article 452-c of the penal code. [[Applause]] In fact, with this reform of justice criminals who poison the environment will not be punished. An unacceptable criticality, that risks to render vain the albeit few steps forward made so far from the regulations relative to the environmental disaster. In fact, among the serious crimes for which the extension is allowed there are no environmental crimes, which - as Italian history shows - need long and very complex judicial processes. The Cartabia reform risks giving impunity to those who destroy the territories by poisoning those who live there. [[Applause]] It should be remembered that environmental pollution does not stop with the process, as is the case with crime, for example. A person kills her once, the environment kills him every day. Therefore, they are not crimes circumscribed over time and it is right not to set time limits for their trials. How can we not think of the disaster of the Sarno River or the land of fires? How is it possible to give impunity to the criminals who poisoned Campania, my land, and killed thousands of people? [[Applause]] With the amendments I have tabled, I have dealt with many critical issues. First of all, the Cartabia reform provides that Parliament, by means of a law, will determine the general modalities by which the prosecutors of the Republic will have to indicate the criteria by which to give priority to the news of crime, to be treated with precedence over the others. This conflicts with the principle of mandatory prosecution and, as the magistrates denounce, risks violating the constitutional order. Moreover, it is expected that the legislative decrees for the reform of the process will be adopted in agreement with the Minister for Regional Affairs and Self-Government and acquired the opinion of the Unified Conference and this is incomprehensible: given the exclusive legislative competence of the State in the matter of criminal law, what does the Regions have to do with this decision-making phase? A further critical issue is the fact that the text of the reforms provides that all notifications to the non-convicted defendant after the first are made directly by the defender. But why would lawyers track down their caregivers, replacing the state? The reform provides for audio-visual recording as an additional form of interrogation documentation only if the offices have the technical means, and therefore the recorders. It would be important, however, to guarantee those who are heard, that audio-visual recording should always be carried out. It is unacceptable that in a reform that wants to give new life to the process, reference should be made to the lack of the necessary technical instruments and instead no provision should be made for them to be acquired and incremental. Where are we? [[Applause]] It is also unacceptable to provide that the appeal, therefore the second degree of judgment, is inadmissible because of the lack of specificity of the reasons: this violates the right of the accused to challenge the decision personally, forcing him to technicalities that do not belong to his language and thus harming his rights. Furthermore, one of the amendments I have tabled is aimed at eliminating the provision that before the highest court, as the Court of Cassation, it is not possible to attend the hearing. The orality of the process is an indispensable principle. Finally, I have proposed a number of amendments to take action on the prescription system currently provided for in the text, because in fact, with this measure, the processes will evaporate and disappear. [[Applause]] With the quirks that distinguish the Italian system, it will be possible for lawyers to try to push the established limits, thus making the process fade away and making useless the work of the judges of first degree and of the prosecutor, and this especially for the more complex and therefore longer processes. Worse than that, this government couldn't do. The existing shortcomings are legitimated by structuring them into a system that erases the most important processes and gives many more opportunities to criminals to get away with it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u68	Senator Cucca is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u69	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking Mrs Cartabia, who is not present today, but also the Sub-secretaries who are here. Yesterday I did so with Ms Macina during the debate on the delegation law on civil proceedings, and today I feel that I should also do so with Mr Sisto, who has really made a real contribution, with a sometimes difficult mediation work, which I think has produced a very good result. I must also thank my colleagues in the House, who have done a very good job. I would like to begin by saying first of all that I strongly support this reform, especially because it marks the end of the unbridled justiceism that has animated the sometimes senseless reforms of recent years. We also saw just now that there are those who support these reforms without considering the fact that our country needs much more. As I said, those reforms were based on populism, on the unbridled search for electoral consensus, riding most of the time - we have seen it even a while ago - the wave of emotion rather than pursuing the intention to give the country a system in which justice is first and foremost just and fair. We therefore draw a system in which care is taken, first of all - this is the fundamental aspect of this reform - to the fundamental rights of the person; those rights which - if you look carefully - are perfectly outlined in our Constitution. One of the things that I appreciated most about the minister Cartabia is that from the first day he said that the Constitution was and will always be the beacon of all his activity. Well, perhaps we should all be consistent with this orientation, with this precept. Many times I have sworn allegiance to the Constitution and I firmly believe in what Minister Cartabia said: let us uniform ourselves to the Constitution and we will certainly get the results that this country expects of us. The reform is certainly perfectible, like all the laws - I have said it many times these days - but it achieves, however, an extraordinary result that we have always hoped for. Today, in fact, we finally put an end to the activity that had characterized the previous Government, which did not hesitate, for the reasons already said several times, to mortify the rights and guarantees of the individual, ending up mortifying, however, itself, and in fact had to hand over to the Government Dragons so that those rights were finally safeguarded. With this reform we implement that concept of criminal trial that has been mortified too many times, according to which we have a set of guarantees, that we find affirmed in the Constitution, to face and decide on the violation of the precepts placed to protect society and the individuals that compose it, therefore of the proper development of social life. Well, in this activity one cannot ignore the values that range from the inviolability of personal freedom to the principle of legality to the autonomy of the judiciary, the right process and its reasonable duration. Today, therefore, we are taking a huge step forward towards the right process, which must first of all be an agile and fast trial, which can have a reasonable duration so that it can also benefit the accused, whether it is guilty or innocent. Beware, even the guilty defendant is still a man, and as a man who has wronged, for the most diverse reasons, his life path, he has the right not to wait for infinite times to ascertain the facts and for the implementation of the sanctioning response, which must be ready, immediate and fair. And this is also due to the reaffirmation of value of that behavior that has been punished and to start the process of reeducation that must in any case imprint the punitive response of the State. Only in this way will we be able to render proper service to the victims of the crimes, the so-called offended parties. We have often heard that the process that is not prescribed is for the benefit of the victims: it is a complete madness, a falsehood. Victims are protected if the trial is fast, not if we have the end of the trial ever, as unmistakably established the reform implemented by the former Minister of Justice, to be clear, what the ideas confused about the concepts of dole and guilt. The reform that we are about to adopt is in this direction. Think of the gradual start of the telematic criminal process or the system of notifications, with the concentration of time for notices and communications; the encouragement of alternative rites, which - I would like to stress this - could have been done even more; perhaps we should have been a little more courageous, making it more convenient for the decision not to go to debate in more circumstances. Of course, we would have achieved a greater reduction in court and court charges. However, what matters to me is that this process has finally begun, because the rest can be done by doing so. From us an old proverb says - I say it in Italian - that during the route you fix the load, and that is what we will have to do. In other words, we will have to make those small changes that will become necessary once the new system is in place. Another aspect that undoubtedly marks a change in pace with the original Bonafede reform system is the issue of priority in the prosecution exercise. In fact, it is finally decided to entrust Parliament with the task of periodically establishing the priority criteria in the exercise of criminal proceedings. These are general criteria, within which the public prosecutor's offices will be required to identify transparent and predetermined priority criteria, to be indicated in the organisational processes. To entrust Parliament with this important and delicate task, given the enormous judicial burden, is to ensure the uniform exercise of prosecution, subtracting it from the discretionary exercise of the individual prosecutors, who too often have created problems in the system. I must also stress that my colleagues in the Chamber of Deputies have done a great deal of work and I am also pleased that some of the amendments tabled by the Italian Group Viva, which had not previously been accepted in the reforms launched by the Count's Government, have been accepted: I am referring to the amendments tabled by Mr Vitiello and the group leader in the Justice Commission, Lucia Annibali. The first intervenes on Article 123 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, in the matter of declarations and requests of prisoners or internees, and the second provides instead the compulsory arrest in flagrante for the offences of violation of the measures of removal from the family house or prohibition of approach to the places frequented by the person of offense. Colleagues, this is indeed a priority for us, because it is a significant and very long-awaited forecast, which guarantees greater protection and protection for victims of ill-treatment and stalking and which also fills the vulnus created by the so-called red code. We will then see to it that the legislation is better regulated in the bill which is at the attention of the Senate Justice Commission. I must also point out that it is important and significant to reduce the limitation of the prescription, although the "end of trial never" has unfortunately remained for some of the crimes. Colleagues, excuse me for pointing this out, but in this regard my thoughts cannot but run to a well-known story that involved an honest and upright person: I am obviously referring to Enzo Tortora. Today, with the current system, given the type of crime that was contested, he should have dealt with the "end of trial ever." Is this correct? How many Enzo Tortora exist in our country? How many innocent people are involved with infamous accusations, which then regularly end up in thin air? Maybe we ourselves and excuse me for saying that with a rash... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u70	Finish it, Senator Cucca.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u71	CUCCA (IV-PSI). Thank you, Mr President. Perhaps we ourselves should have given some more thought, even when, in this House, we authorised the arrest of a colleague, who after five years was declared innocent because the fact does not exist. [[Applause]] We put him in prison: perhaps the use of protective custody should be a little more careful and we should put our hands on this once and for all. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to address the Government to stress that Italy Viva is on these reforms, in order to give fair, just and above all consistent justice with constitutional principles. We will continue to support your action, in this sense and in this direction, which seems really the right one. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u72	He's enlisted to speak Senator Balboni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u73	Senator Balboni has a longer time to make his speech, having asked for it in accordance with Rule 89 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u74	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, among the aims of the draft law under consideration, it is indicated as the pre-eminent one to speed up the times of criminal justice. Among the main instruments of this reform, such as the civil reform, which we discussed yesterday, is the Office for the Process, which is allocated as much as EUR 2 billion and EUR 342 million, i.e. almost all of the funds allocated to justice by the PNRR. I must reiterate once again all the doubts, my own and the Brothers of Italy, about this choice. Justice, criminal justice like civil justice, needs more than that. It needs structural reforms, it needs to fill the fearful gaps in magistrates' staff (more than 600 are missing) and the gaps in administrative staff, which, as we know, are even wider. It needs huge investments in digitization (fortunately these are planned), but also for the best organization of offices and, in many parts of Italy, for the modernization of the palaces of justice (too many still in precarious conditions). Not to mention prison building, because prison overcrowding is resolved by building new prisons and new pavilions, not effectively repealing the prison sentence and freeing criminals (as you unfortunately do with this bill), nor by the so-called dynamic supervision, which has handed over control of prisons to organized crime. The trial office will not be used to shorten trial times; anyone who has a bit of judicial practice knows that. Nor will it serve to dispose of the backward; for this reason it was much better to resort to the extraordinary recruitment of lawyers with long professional experience and of judges in quiescence, to whom to entrust the decision of the proceedings with greater seniority of role and less complexity. Above all, the professionalism of thousands of honorary judges could and should have been enhanced, stabilizing them, recognizing the rights that a rule of law recognizes to every worker and engaging them in the definition of the procedures of jurisdiction of the monocratic court. Instead you have mortified them again and continue to mortify them, forgetting that, without their work, simply the Italian justice would already have declared bankruptcy. This said and reiterated that it is a mere illusion to believe that structural problems can be solved by simple procedural reforms, even if they are the smartest (and most of them are not), I do not deny that some of the solutions contained in this draft law are positive, starting with, for example, the telematic criminal process, although it would have been necessary to provide for a more gradual transition to the mandatory use of digital methods for the filing of documents and documents. Just as I do not deny that the change in the discipline of the notifications to the accused is positive, so that only the first notification and the summons at first and second instance must take place to the suspect or the accused, while all the others can take place to the defender. It is also a good thing that the system of prosecution procedures is extended and the intention to return to the financial penalty, which now only exists on paper, since it varies between 1% and 2% over the years, with an annual loss to the treasury of about one billion euros (i.e., ladies and gentlemen, almost 50% of the entire fund allocated by the PNRR for justice, in a single year). But, apart from these and few other positive measures, there are many others (too many) that Brothers of Italy cannot share and judges very dangerous. The most serious of all is the reform of the prescription and the introduction of imprecedibility in appeal and in Cassation, through the new Article 344- bis, with an illogical and unreasonable mix between an institution of substantive law such as the prescription and one of procedural law such as improcedibility. A clear compromise between the political forces that make up this spurious majority, but which has produced a legal monster. You should have had the courage to repeal the Bonafede reform. That was the solution. That reform has blocked the limitation from the judgment of first instance not only in the event of conviction, but even of acquittal. You had to have the courage to return to the pre-existing system, perhaps by increasing the time limits for certain crimes of greater alert or complex investigation. This could and should be discussed. The solution of confirming the Bonafede reform and then limiting its effectiveness with the corrective of improcability does not make any sense, instead. Certainly it will not help to shorten the timing of the first-degree process. In fact, just think that the judge will know that he has at his disposal the entire limitation period of the crime that, as we know, is not at all short: seven and a half years for a simple theft or a scam, twelve and a half years for corruption, thirteen years and a month for flawed. The judge of first instance will use them all, so much so that he knows that in any case with the judgment of first instance the prescription will stop and on appeal will apply the different institute of improcability, which will not take into account how long it has been taken to decide at first instance. The predictable result is an unreasonable expansion of the times and not their abbreviation, with so much greeting to Article 111 of the Constitution and the reasonable duration of the process. Equally serious are the consequences for offended persons. Undersecretary, perhaps you have not reasoned on this: the offended persons who constituted themselves a civil party to obtain compensation for the damage, when the improcability will be declared on appeal or in Cassation, will also see the paralysis of their action in the civil court. Your reform requires the action to be transferred to the competent civil court by value, unlike today's provision in Article 578 - which repeals in this part - which imposes on the criminal court both appeal and cassation declaring the termination of the crime to ascertain anyway the fact for the purposes of civil effects. With the modification that you make to this norm the decision will be entrusted, instead, to the civil court, with ulterior lengthening of the times of the decision and with problems of not easy solution - I have not found solution in your bill - awaited the different probative regime in existence in criminal law than that in force in civil law. Let me just give two examples: the deposition of the damaged does not prove in the civil trial, while it tests in the criminal trial; in the civil trial there are legal limitations of proof, while there are no limitations in the criminal trial. I am thinking, for example, of agreements added to contracts and payments. How will the civil judge be regulated at this point? I'm an example of a fraud trial. Will the court consider the evidence taken in criminal proceedings in violation of the limits imposed in civil proceedings or not? You have not regulated this aspect and I am particularly concerned. Another very dangerous norm is that contained in the letter i), paragraph 9 of Article 1, according to which the prosecutors of the Republic will be able and will have to identify criteria in order to select which news of crime deal with precedence; there is no comparison with the discretion of today! This will be the true discretion, even if within the framework of general criteria dictated by Parliament's law. I hope I am wrong, but the risk of discretion in choosing which crimes to prosecute and which to abandon to oblivion and prescription is obvious. Such discretion is clearly contrary to the principle of mandatory prosecution, enshrined in Article 12 of the Constitution. Attention, Article 12 of the Constitution is a direct explanation of Article 3, according to which the law is the same for all; we are all equal before the law. Well, this rule violates this basic and fundamental principle of our Constitution. Granting such discretion to prosecutors is therefore a clear inconstitutionality and risks creating unacceptable differences from territory to territory. It is not improbable even to imagine a sort of criminal tourism, with criminals moving from territory to territory according to their specialization - it is done to say - criminal, choosing that territory where they can rely on substantial immunity. It is worth noting that Article 132- bis of the implementing provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure provides for certain priority criteria to be taken into account in the formation of hearing roles. An account in fact is to determine which debate takes precedence over others that will have to take place in any case; On the contrary, it is a matter of sanctioning by law which offenses should directly ignore, avoiding investigating them. I'm moving on. Certainly the right of defence violates the provision that, in the event of a change of the natural person of the judge or of one or more members of the college, the new judge may order the resumption of the declarative sentence only if he considers it necessary all the times when it has been recorded by videotape. It was sufficient to foresee, as we have proposed (of course not heard), that the transfer or retirement of the judge takes place only at the end of the treatment of the assigned trials. With this simple measure 90% of this problem would be solved. Still, it certainly violates the right to defend the inadmissibility of the appeal, which you foresee, when it is proposed by the defender of the absent defendant who is not given a specific mandate after the date of the sentence. This is a particularly obnoxious rule if one considers that it will affect in particular the defendants with an official defender, that is, the weakest and with greater difficulty in keeping in touch with their defender. Extending the scope of non-criminality for particular reason of the fact to criminal offences with minimum edittal punishment up to two years - these are very serious crimes, Mr. Undersecretary, and you know that - seems to us an excessive extension which in abstract could make non-criminal offences such as slander, false testimony, falsehood committed by the public official, kidnapping, usury: all of which have a minimum edittal penalty of less than two years in the minimum. It is difficult to justify the non-penalty of offences of such seriousness. I could go on for a long time, but for reasons of time - and I thank you for the time I have been given - I shall confine myself to a final reflection on the further impressive extension of the penalties alternatives to detention provided for in this reform. Attention, no one disputes that the penalty must also have a re-educational function, as stated in Article 27 of the Constitution according to which - I quote - the penalties must tend to re-education the condemned. In our opinion, however, the penalty must retain its deterrent and social defense value, which is prejudiced by the progressive emptying of the atonement of the sentence. The re-educational function, in fact, in our opinion, must go through the atonement of the sentence, not through its substantial abolition. If the certainty of the penalty fails, its deterrent function fails and the sense of impunity of the criminal tends to expand. This reform inflicts a further vulnus on the already bland deterrent function of our prison system. This, unfortunately, is the reality. Brothers of Italy want swift and just trials, but, in case of condemnation, they also want immediate and certain penalties. You are going in the diametrically opposite direction, mortifying even more the victims of crime and the feeling of justice of honest Italians. For all these reasons, our view of this reform is unfortunately negative. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u75	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mirabelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u76	Mr President, Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to make a few comments on the substance of the matter, starting with an assumption made earlier by Senator Cucca. It is clear that there is no perfect reform, but this is a good reform, which addresses the issue of the criminal trial and justice in the country with concreteness, indicating a clear direction. We need to take action on the timing, making sure that it is safe, so that we can give more guarantees to the victims and the defendants. With this delegation law, there are the conditions to emerge from a wrong alternative that has led to the public debate on justice for too long, a wrong alternative that has crushed the debate between a choice that says: We want endless processes and one that says: The proceedings must end sooner, even without judgment. I believe there is a third way, which is indicated by the draft law under consideration, namely to put in place the conditions so that there can be procedures and judicial organization that allow for certain times. We need a reform that guarantees justice to the victims and a fair trial within a reasonable time, a reform that guarantees the accused. This delegation law moves in this direction. With regard to reasonable and certain times, we have already dealt with this point with great detail yesterday. Certainly the issue of judicial organisation is fundamental, if we really want the trials to be faster and justice can be guaranteed to everyone. The investments we talked about for a long time yesterday in the PNRR go in this direction. The recruitments, which allow to strengthen the offices of the process, the investments on the organization of the judicial offices, even structural, the investments on digital are all choices that can and must help to guarantee justice faster and more reliable times, knowing that these are the concrete tools by which we can achieve what is indicated in the norm. The measure also contains other very important provisions. I think, for example, that the choice to ensure a time frame for preliminary investigations is fair and also a guarantee. However, I would like to focus on another part of the reform which is very important to us. I have heard many speeches that do not share our position. The very important part of the reform for us, together with the one I have already mentioned, is the one that insists on the rites and alternative measures that serve to reduce the workload within the courtrooms and gives the victims more voice and choice. In the provision there are important passages. The indication of willingness to extend the plea and test goes in the right direction. These are choices that absolutely do not guarantee immunity, nor do they go in the direction of favoring the wealthiest. It's not like that. The reform contains just and qualifying provisions, such as remedial justice and the extension of the cause of non-penalty due to particular tenuity of the fact. Someone has to explain to me how extending the non-penalty for the tenuity of the fact can favor the richest. Our prisons are full of people who have committed indeed minor crimes and who remain there for many years precisely because they are in a state of weakness, unable to have what should be guaranteed to all, that is, an appropriate defence. These are just rules and civilizations to be extended. We would have liked more on the front of alternative rituals and penalties. The measure indicates a road in which prison is the extreme ratio, which does not renounce to punish those who commit crimes and to guarantee justice to victims and which does not give immunity to anyone, simply applying the Constitution. This road looks at the penalty according to the function assigned to it by the Constitution and - I repeat - it really sees in the prison the extreme ratio. This is the way for us to follow, which is certainly more difficult than the simple one that would like to solve everything with prison, maybe throwing away the keys. This is not the path we have chosen, it is not ours. Our path is the one that demands and obtains justice, applies the penalties in a reasonable way, aiming to reduce the recidivity, which prison produces in such a significant way, and to increase the security of Italian society. This in no way means giving impunity to anyone. It is indeed instrumental to argue that the law of delegation reduces the fight against the most serious offenses. It has been debated, it is not true that Parliament has not worked; there has been much discussion and work in Parliament on this aspect and today it is a falsehood to say that in this country there is no fight against the mafia and terrorism. These crimes remain a priority and the fact that they are not subject to the rules that provide for improcability says a lot about how important the fight against mafias is for this country. We will rightly check the functioning and effectiveness of the reform in the coming years. I believe that a good job has been done and an important synthesis has been found, perhaps unthinkable only a few months ago, on a subject such as this. We are also able to prepare a reform on criminal matters, as on civil matters, with the means to do so. Today we are able to think that we can guarantee more justice by giving more guarantees to the accused and by more protection for the victims; a justice that looks at people and puts them at the centre. It is not the controversy or the often propagandistic disputes that will solve the problems of justice in Italy, but the responsibility that we must all assume together, putting the citizens at the centre, and the measure we are discussing goes in this direction. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u77	He's enlisted to speak Senator Grasso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u78	Mr President, Undersecretaries, ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic, which is responsible for thousands of deaths and an unprecedented economic crisis, has dramatically highlighted that, in addition to civil justice, the current architecture of the criminal system is inefficient and has disruptive effects on the economy of our country even before the citizens' confidence in the institutions. There are about two and a half million pending criminal trials that are actually a boulder that prevents the system from working. It goes without saying that an unprecedented effort must be put in place to absorb this backwardness and at the same time to prepare reforms that are capable of avoiding new accumulations. The recovery fund represents a unique opportunity to finance a comprehensive restructuring of the justice system, to make it efficient and modern. At last, we begin to combine timely reforms of codes with digitization, improvement of infrastructure, reorganization of offices and increase of the competences of the administration. The changes that we are going to vote on certainly contain many points from which to start to improve our criminal system. We have finally available the resources for investments expected for years, aimed at modernising also from the technological point of view, the slow machine of justice, from the diffusion of the telematic instrument to the digitization of the notifications. In this respect, however, it must be borne in mind that no digital procedure can function alone. We will therefore have to make sure that staff are increased with the necessary skills. It should be stressed that, unlike the amendments, judgments cannot be written to thousands with the use of algorithms. It would therefore be appropriate to implement the number of magistrates and administrative staff well beyond the current staff. In his work "The science of legislation" "Gaetano Filangieri said that the task of criminal procedure is to take away how much one can to the innocent all fear, to the guilty all hope and to the judges all will. In my opinion, the Italian criminal trial has some fundamental flaws that date back to the purely meritorious reform of 1989, aggravated by the partial changes that have been the result of successive legislative interventions over the years. In fact, in the current procedural system the basic principles of a procedural model of accusatory matrix continue to coexist with those which, on the other hand, simply represent the legacy of an inquisitory system, in which the evidence was formed in the closed room of an investigating judge and maintained his dignity even at the debate. In the 1989 reform nothing has been taken away from the guaranteed inquisitory system, provided for by the Constitutional Charter, such as the motivation, the prescription, the appeal to the substance, the control of the motivation in the Cassation and so on, and the pure accusatory system, of the type of Perry Mason, of Anglo-Saxon inspiration, has been added, but without importing some peculiar characteristics of that process, such as the popular verdict without motivation, the lack of a second judgment of merit, the grand jury, although today replaced by a testimonial accident of rare implementation. The public prosecutor, who has become sole proprietor, must carry out the investigations according to two different optics: the abbreviated rite, on whose choice by the accused cannot at all affect, which requires the completeness of the trial, and the debate, where the evidence must be formed ex novo, without the possibility of using all that has been done before. I therefore believe that in the end the Italian criminal trial can be defined as a hybrid and at the same time can only be one of the slowest, but also the most guaranteed in the world. The expansion of negotiated justice, the extended plea as a means of drastically reducing the debates, I agree, but there is great concern about the past legislative choice to extend the area of application of the plea without even asking for a declaration of guilt, as in the US model, and then submitting the relevant judgment, which is the result of an agreement, to an extraordinary means of appeal such as the revision, which is a contradiction. I believe that there must also be reason for reflection on the mythization of the principle of contradictory. It is true that it is a basic principle of our order, but it would be necessary to strengthen the judge's evaluative power as the referee of the rules of the contradictory and also of his exceptions, in order to contribute to the recovery of speed and efficiency of the process, avoiding endless testimonies without, of course, compressing the guarantees of the defence. This, for example, by providing that the judge may arrange for the reading of documents drawn up by the judicial police or by other public officials, such as the endless information, and of course leaving the possibility, at the end of the reading, to address questions to the witnesses. In addition, it would be appropriate to propose the introduction of means of remote discussion of witnesses, experts, technical consultants, as experienced during the Covid emergency period. Finally, an innovative proposal would be to foresee, for the repression of crimes of micro-criminality such as thefts, muggings, robberies, drug dealing, that put into crisis the sense of security of citizens, the intervention of a judge who, very quickly, in the contradictory of the parties, acquires evidence, always and in any case usable, in order to limit to the maximum, until almost cancel it, that period of time between the original accusation before the investigating authority and that before the judge. A time during which the victim and the witness remain, unfortunately, often exposed to pressures, threats, intimidation or subjected to innate and unavoidable environmental conditions. There are many other aspects that could still be considered in order to help make the criminal system more effective and streamlined, especially at the stage of appeal, making the agreement on which the plea is based unappellable or reducing appeals merely dilatory, through the possibility of a pious evaluation of the Courts of Appeals. Finally, as regards the appeal in cassation, it would be desirable to remove the reason for the appeal for lack of motivation, which ends up transforming the judgment into cassation into a further judgment of merit, with the possibility of postponement and, therefore, of an infinite extension of the processes. Of course, I realize that it is difficult to strike a fair balance between the need to expedite and expedite the process and those procedural instruments prepared to guarantee the accused and to avoid unjust decisions. In conclusion, however, we must say that it is a problem of political choices on the part of the legislator, to which it must be recognized the primacy of determining whether the frequent situations of stalemate that occur continuously in the criminal process are the necessary price to be paid at indefectible moments of guarantee or are mere obstacles and obstacles, the result of completely unnecessary dilatory techniques, at least in the perspective of procedural loyalty between the parties. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u79	He is registered to speak Senator Marco Pellegrini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u80	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government. Today, as is well known, we are dealing with the bill of delegation on criminal proceedings. We are therefore dealing with a very sensitive subject, which concerns the freedom and security of citizens. I would like to say at once that it is not exactly the text we would have liked, but it is the result of a great deal of improvement compared to the version of Mr Cartabia, which was unacceptable to us. And we were the only ones in the majority who said that and took a clear stand. These significant improvements were the result of the work of President Giuseppe Conte and all the Movimento 5 Stars, together with the Minister and the rest of the Government. Of course, if we had been alone in the executive, we would have written it in another way, but the presence of the Movimento 5 Stars in the current government group also has this function, that is to take into account the popular will and the broad electoral mandate that the citizens conferred on us in 2018. Thanks to our frantic commitment between July and August, for example, the deadlines for improbability have been doubled: up to four years for all crimes, including environmental crimes, until December 2024; for crimes with Mafia aggression such terms have even been tripled and, therefore, brought to six years; for all crimes, mafia, vote of political-mafia exchange, terrorism, aggravated sexual violence, international drug trafficking, the maximum duration has been eliminated. Some may say that fortunately this is not the law of Movimento 5 Stars. Well, that will make it easier for citizens to understand which values and principles move the different political forces. Our line has always been clear and is traceable in every measure in the matter of justice presented in this legislature in which we are to the government and in majority. It is necessary and urgent to shorten the time-frame of the trials and it is essential to finally guarantee the legal certainty of the citizens. Whoever wanted to see in our line only or one of the two aspects, with the crude accusation that we will be those of the "end of trial never" says the forgery and knows it. This bill bears the signature of Alfonso Bonafede because it was we who wanted to reform the criminal trial, as well as the civil one, while we approved the rule on the prescription, which stops - as we know - after the judgment at first instance, and while we allocated large funds to fill the gaps in the judicial offices that had accumulated over the decades. Certainty of punishment and shorter processes, thanks to the updating of the procedure and the greater efficiency of the machine: these are the two legs with which to review Italian justice. Then, the second Conte Government fell probably also because these measures, which had been proposed on criminal justice, as well as others in economic and social matters, were not good for anyone. And here a very heterogeneous majority, today's, wanted to review the two reforms of the processes. Today we come to the final vote on this text, but the original text is at the first signature of former Minister Bonafede, whom I thank for his work. [[Applause]] This text had been approved in the Council of Ministers by the Count II Government and had arrived in Parliament in March 2020. I repeat: in March 2020, a year and a half ago. If at that time the text was not approved by the Chambers it is because a force within the then majority did the continuous counter-song and often behaved as internal opposition. I can say, without the subject of denial, that today we approve the text Bonafede as amended by the Government Draghi, in the version resulting from the harsh confrontation with the 5 Star Movement, to which I referred a moment ago. If we want to give a percentage, at least 80% of the current text is based on the work of former Minister Bonafede. I would add that the reform of the civil process and that of the MSC had already been approved by the previous government and had been blocked by the so-called internal opposition to which I referred earlier. I keep it for the sake of the truth. To give another example, I've heard about the assumption plan. Well, the recruitment orders, which amount to about 18,000 units, plus the extraordinary recruitments, which amount to 21,000 units, the latter provided by the PNRR, prepared by the Government Count II, have been confirmed by the Minister Cartabia and the current Government. Therefore, if today there are so many applauses to these portions of the law delegation, intellectual honesty would want at least some of these consents and applauses to be addressed to those who have conceived them, namely the previous Government, Minister Bonafede and the Movimento 5 Stars who have always supported it. [[Applause]] We are convinced that the right path to take to speed up the processes and for a really fair and reasonably rapid justice is to extend the staff of the magistrates, and of the untogated staff. We are so convinced that in recent years the only ones who have gone from statements in the Chamber or in the television lounges to concrete facts have been us in the Movimento 5 Stars, which we have launched - as I said before - the greatest assumption in the justice sector for decades. The others said it, we made it happen. The process must be quick, but it must be concluded with the determination of the facts, not with a general impunity for regulatory prediction. Sending hundreds of thousands of trials - and this is the risk we took - to the slaughter would have meant the surrender of the rule of law and the death of legal civilization. I shall return briefly to the most debated point of this reform, which is the part that concerns improcability and limitation. In the text that is voted on today, the prescription is blocked after the judgment at first instance, as provided for in the so-called scrambled law. In the text originally proposed by Minister Cartabia this plant was confirmed, but it was added - as is known - that in appeal, after a maximum period of two years, and in Cassation after a maximum of one year, there was the improcability, that is, the trial ended in nothing and the victims would not have obtained justice even for serious crimes that arouse enormous social alarm. This hypothesis was unacceptable to us; we raised the barricades, yes, we did, and we were the only ones to do so, because establishing such a low threshold of maximum duration, that is, two years, in a country where the average length of time on appeal is longer - sometimes even significantly - than two years, in some districts of the Court of Appeal, meant accepting the risk of having an excessive number of trials that would end in nothing and for us this very concrete risk, as many magistrates operating the law have well explained, was absolutely unacceptable. We are proud to have averted it with the changes that have been introduced thanks to us and which I mentioned just now. We have convinced all the other members of the Commission, also thanks to the hearings we have requested in the Committee on Justice during the examination of the Chamber and from these it has emerged, through the mouth of authoritative Italian representatives in the field of law and justice, that there was the risk, with the original text, of creating a real problem for national security, especially with regard to Mafia crimes. For the National Association of Judges, in fact, there was the risk of sending 150,000 trials to the Macero. By the way, if there had not been the changes that we demanded, we would have passed a law that would have gone in exactly the opposite direction to the indications and the demands that come from Europe, that several times - I remind the forgetful in this House too - has woven the praise of the norm on the prescription contained in the law scrambled. The path to just and efficient justice is still long, but we will continue to make our contribution in an absolutely constructive way, as we have always done. A constructive but firm contribution, because we have no intention of abandoning our principles, which indeed we will continue to carry out with even more strength and determination, whatever it costs. To those who dream of demolishing everything that the Movimento 5 Stars has built in recent years in the field of justice, legality, respect for the rules and dignity of workers, in the matter of aid to the most fragile and the defenseless, of social justice and redistribution of income, to all of them I can say - I quote our President Giuseppe Conte - that if they want to demolish all this they will have to pass on our corpse. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u81	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u82	He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Mr D'Incà. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u83	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I raise the question of trust in the approval without amendments or additional articles of Articles 1 and 2 of draft law No 2353, which deals with the Government for the efficiency of the criminal trial as well as in the matter of remedial justice and provisions for the swift definition of judicial proceedings, in the text approved by the House of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u84	The Presidency takes note of the position of the matter of trust (not really unique) on the approval of Articles 1 and 2 of draft law No 2353, in the same text as that approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on which the non-obstacle opinion of the 5th Permanent Commission was received. As established by the Conference of Leaders, after the sanitization of the Chamber, the joint explanations of vote and therefore the nominal calls on Article 1 and Article 2 respectively will be passed directly. I therefore suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 1.15 p.m. and resumed at 3.30 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u85	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u87	RENZI (IV-PSI). Madam President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, there are times when it would be appropriate to keep quiet, out of common sense, out of usefulness or for personal needs, but there are times when silence would be a cowardly and cowardly act: this is one of those moments. The reform of Cartabia, which we will vote with conviction - I declare it now - is an excellent first step. As history tells us, the first step takes you away from where you are, it still does not take you where you have to go: it removes us from the Bonafede reform, which had to abolish the prescription, but which produced the prescription of the reform, and leads us to a new dimension, of important challenges for the world of justice. The fact, however, is that this situation comes at the most tragic moment in the history of the judicial power of republican life. Many people do not have the courage to say so, including among us, ladies and gentlemen. Among us there are many of us who renounce the taste of truth, out of fear, because for years all - or many - we have allowed to leave not to individual magistrates, but to the subalternity of politics, that it was the prosecutors who decided who could make a political career and who not, because we said that the warning of guarantee was a sentence of condemnation. In recent years, legislative power and executive power have gone through moments of difficulty. The judicial power never: this is the first moment, dramatic. Attention: I do not speak of judges, to whom we turn with words of respectful homage and esteem, today, the day after the anniversary of the death of a giant of our society, such as Rosario Livatino. [[Applause]] Today, when we remember the many political colleagues, but also the many magistrates who have dedicated their lives to the institutions, the real point is that the judicial power is in crisis: who denies it, denies reality. Why are you in crisis? Is he in crisis because of politics? No. Politics has been arguing and arguing over justice issues for years. Let us say things as they are, once and for all: there has been a part of this House and that of the House, particularly on the left, which has imagined to take advantage of the judicial events involving another part of politics, the one in the right-wing hemicycle. It was so: there is a political responsibility of the left in trying to exploit this and of the right in having responded to this crisis with ad personam laws. There is a responsibility of all, no one can back down today in judging the end of these thirty years of long war between the judiciary and politics. However, the judiciary has never had any problems and has always used what was happening in this House by regaining strength and keeping one another inside. It's not like that anymore. Why, Madam President? For many reasons. The real dramatic element, however, is that there is a disintegration within the judiciary, which leads to the realization of the prophecy of the then director of Radical Radio Massimo Bordin, who came to define the future the place where the magistrates would have mutually arrested. Those of us who started to make politics remembering the tragic and dramatic moment of Clean Hands cannot fail to see as a shocking element the fact that two of the characters of the pool, the only two left, today are at the cards branded between them. Do you realize that no one has the courage to say what is happening, as if politics were afraid to talk about what is happening in the judiciary? This disaster of the judicial power today is preventing so many women and many men magistrates from enhancing what they are and represent, because we live in a hood of concern and fear. I feel the need to say it here, without any fear and without any element of reverential fear. The judiciary started a very worrying journey in 2021. Why did this happen? For political reasons? Why did the five-star political leadership on the judiciary fail? I don't know. I must acknowledge the current Minister for Foreign Affairs that I have said clear words about the barbaric and uncivilized use by the 5 Stars in 2016, of the judicial question; timid and late excuses, but still excuses, those of Minister Di Maio. I believe that this kind of apology eliminates, at least in the political debate, the fact that the leadership of the judiciary system - or, better, the system of judicial policy - during the years of the Bonafede Ministry has been deeply judicial. When it was said that justiceism and guaranteeing are two different extremisms, to friends who imagine that political part as a solid point of reference of progressiveism I can only say: "Happy birthday, if you think this." I come from a culture in which the Constitution is a serious matter and justiceism is an element of deformation. [[Applause]] Without that, however, the fundamental point I want to say - and I am going to close, Madam President - is that there is one key element to be addressed. At this moment, after what happened in the political debate, tensions have started, in the dynamics within the judiciary, perhaps never endured in the past, which have exploded in an objective war, which is leading to investigations of magistrates' investigations against other magistrates. If you want to pretend you don't see this, do it, but it's a fact that concerns you, even if you pretend you don't Find out. And on this there is one point to say: the problem is not the separation of careers, paradoxically, but the power and shameful overpower that currents have within the judiciary, which affect the disciplinary procedures of the individual magistrates and which prevent good magistrates and level of career if they are not enrolled in some currents. The real separation of career is to be done between the current and the magistrate: you have to make a career if you are good, not if you are enrolled in a current. [[Applause]] Nowadays, it is unacceptable that the first reaction to the fact that there is a procedure is to ask what current that magistrate is registered with. It is impossible to imagine that the authority of the CSM has touched the lowest points with its current composition because of our own fault - I have also done personal self-criticism - in the selection of lay candidates as well. You have to have the courage to say it all. The real point is that, if the MSC goes to the discipline by judging on the basis of belonging to the single current and not on the basis of the facts, we are in the presence of a problem that concerns everyone, dear friends and colleagues. Those of us who have judicial matters apart if they see them in the seats. I spoke with voice and with my head high here in saying that there was a prosecutor who, in my opinion, was surpassing the limits of judicial action and immediately afterwards I did not take a warning of guarantee, but two, from the same proxy, and I have no problem to say that I do not use these places to face my events, because I affront them in the appropriate locations, convinced, as I am, of the clarity and tranquility of my work. The point is, it's about you, too. We must note that today there is a gigantic problem of magistrates: there are some of them extraordinarily good and up to the challenges of our time, which are locked up by the power of the currents, which - let me tell you - is equal to what the partycracy had thirty years ago. At the end of the Thirty Years War, we can say that the Correntocracy within the judiciary of 2021 is like the partycracy in the politics of 1991. We must have the courage to say clear words about elements of objective malfunctioning of the judiciary, because, when the currents say they want to tighten a health cord around Senator X or Y, you don't have to worry that senator, but the Senate. [[Applause]] Mr President, in view of what is happening at the moment, my conclusions relate to three points. For the sake of time, there will be three tweets: the magistrates must feel free to do their job well, even if they are not enrolled in a current; politicians must have the courage to look into the face without any concern, because a guarantee notice cannot block a career; we cannot continue to talk about new healings. There is a fact: Members' healings are constitutionally guaranteed and daily ignored by media use of the judiciary and investigations. If, in front of this, we do not use the times that go from here to the renewal of theSM in July 2022 to write a new page, no matter who will be next to be involved: the real victims of our inertia will be the credibility of the institutions and the dignity of the judiciary. It was not convenient for me to speak, but there are times when having the courage to call things by their name is a political, civil and moral duty. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u88	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u90	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in the morning I expressed in a long speech the reasons why the Brothers of Italy cannot vote on this draft law either. I've talked about how we can't share this hybrid between prescription and impeccability, which is likely to lead to the extinction of thousands of processes and resolve itself in a de facto amnesty. We said that we expected more courage: we would have expected this Government of the best to have the courage to cancel the Bonafede reform and return to the previous regime, all the more so because 70% of the crimes, as we know, are prescribed within the first instance sentence and the majority of the prescriptions are concentrated in a few judicial districts. It would have been more appropriate to intervene in a targeted way, in order to resolve the problems that exist in those judicial offices and not to generalize a solution that will lengthen the trials, rather than shorten them, as I explained in my speech in general discussion. You should have had this courage, and instead you couldn't find better than to put in a piece worse than the hole. Still in general discussion, we have criticized - and we also reiterate this in the explanation of vote - the introduction of priority criteria for the persecubility of the offences committed to the prosecutors, even within the framework of general criteria established by Parliament's law. It is a clear violation of Articles 112, which prescribes the mandatory prosecution, and 3 of the Constitution, which establishes the principle of equality, according to which we are all equal before the law. You have introduced an unconstitutional discretion, which risks even leading to criminal tourism, depending on the criteria that will be established attorney by proxy. We also do not share the appeal of the defender of the defendant absent only if he has a mandate after the sentence: it is a bureaucratic formalism invented only to prevent the exercise of the right of defence, which will inevitably penalise the weakest and the least guaranteed. We do not agree with the rule of non-participant appeal judgment, unless otherwise requested by the interested party: it is a prejudice to the principle of orality, which is a cornerstone of our legal civilization, which you are demolishing with malice both in the civil process, where it no longer exists, and now also in the criminal one. Nor do we share the abnormal extension of Article 131- bis of the Criminal Code, which does not criminalise small crimes, because your reform leads to declaring it even for crimes such as slander, forgery of the public officer, kidnapping or usury. Above all, we do not agree with the substantial abolition of the prison sentence and the certainty of the penalty, which you have turned into a certainty of impunity. Brothers of Italy is for maximum guarantees in the process, but it is also for the utmost rigour in the execution of the sentence. You're doing exactly the opposite. Ladies and gentlemen, what is missing in yesterday's reform of the civil trial and in today's reform of the criminal trial? The most important things are missing: structural reforms and that of the civil responsibility of the magistrates, which is a medieval privilege. We all respond to the damage that we cause, except the magistrates, who only respond indirectly and at the maximum of six months of their salary: it is only an Italian shame, which you obviously do not have the courage to face, as you do not have to face the reform of the MSC to finally stop the batching of the most important offices among the currents of the judiciary. You do not even have the courage to talk about the separation of careers between prosecutors and judges, without which you will never have a fair trial. All this you achieve with the fifteenth and sixteenth trust and you have already announced a seventeenth for tomorrow, on the green pass. Dear Minister Cartabia, your government of the best has turned Parliament into an empty box, into general silence. [[Applause]] of all the political forces that support this majority. This is the most serious thing. Not only the opposition, but even the democratic dialectic and parliamentary confrontation have become annoying to you. I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, that Italy is a parliamentary Republic and that sovereignty belongs to the people, which is represented by Parliament. You have forgotten this little detail: you go forward only with confidence, you agree between yourselves indoors of your rooms and you do not care about the principles of the Constitution, on which you voted. For these reasons, we have never been more convinced than now in expressing not only our vote against this umpteenth confidence, but all the reprobation we are capable of for this shameful way of managing the Public Things. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u91	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u93	Mr Rossomando (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, and representatives of the Government, the debate on this very important reform - and it could only be so - has brought back the debate on a very, very important subject, often agitated and often acted improperly: the issue of guaranteeing, the rule of law, what distinguishes us from the authoritarian States, which are not liberal democrats as we are. I just want to say a few brief words. In the meantime, I absolutely do not agree that there is a line between guaranteeing and justiceism: taking sides is between impunity and justiceism, because we should all be guaranteed; it is a precondition of recognizing ourselves in this Constitution. Of course, then, we need to see when there is a guarantee of manner or justiceism in alternating currents, because there are very few who, among the political leaders, can boast that they have not invoked the trial in the streets. There are very few, it is useless that we quote this or that other repentance: justice is not done in the square! Another term used - there is an abuse - is "people": direct derivation are "populism" and, with a further degree, "judicial populism." It is no coincidence that the sentences are pronounced in the name of the Italian people and do not take place in the square with the Italian people. It should always be remembered. [[Applause]] Another important term is "balance," which, together with reasonableness, besides being obviously a constitutional principle, is not a middle ground between passionate thesis and battles: balance and reasonableness are a figure, which must inform the speech, especially when it comes to justice. When we pronounce a sentence in the name of the Italian people, in fact, we are deciding about freedom and the fate of our citizens, who at that moment meet the State with its power, regardless of the census (and we would obviously not want this to be a criminal). He is met by offended persons, by those who have suffered harm or offense, and finally by citizens, because the sentence is public and is in the name of the Italian people precisely for this reason. We are for the rules in the process and we are for this balance to be guaranteed and guaranteed. We have no no nostalgia for those times when a trial, such as the one on the massacre of Piazza Fontana, could be moved to one side or the other, using the legitimate hope: we have no nostalgia for that kind of judiciary, which could not be independent. At the same time, we want there to be rules. We have therefore proposed, in the reform of the Supreme Council of the judiciary (which is very linked to this, ladies and gentlemen), the stop to package appointments and the vote of lawyers in the judicial councils. We said no to the spectacular press conferences (and in the measure there is an anticipation of the presumption of innocence) and proposed the evaluation of professionalism, also taking into account the excessive discrepancy between the request for referral to trial and acquittals. This is present in the reform of the criminal trial, because it is expected that a referral to trial will be possible only in the presence of a reasonable forecast of conviction. We also propose a High Court for disciplinary judgements of judges who are able to appeal. These are the concrete things and the balance [[Applause]] : it means being a consequence and having a reformist and guaranteeing culture; it is in Parliament that we play it out, ladies and gentlemen, even in front of the citizens. As for the balance, we are the ones who introduced the eco-reactors, which damage the health of the citizens, and have restored the false in the budget, which is linked to corruption. We are also those who in 2015 reformed protective custody with prison as an extreme ratio. Someone voted against, shouting that the criminals were all out, and today he collects signatures for the referendum. [[Applause]] As for the balance, we are for remedial justice, which we started to promote in the last parliamentary term and which is now present in the reform (not as we would have liked, but very much so). We are for the extension of the test and the tenuity of the fact for Bagatellar crimes, otherwise you get to the cassation to judge the theft of an eggplant. The tenuity of the fact also takes into account the reparation, because in our society we need to sew up: we need to be strict where necessary, but we need to sew up. Let us now come to the substance, with some considerations. The central point is represented by the times. Europe is asking us to do that. We are the country that has had the most convictions from the European Court of Human Rights from 1959 to today. We received 1,202 convictions and then Turkey (608), France (284) and Germany (102). Respect for time is the first guarantee that a rule of law owes to citizens, whether they are investigated or accused, or people who are offended. With excessively long times, it leaves room for a media pillage and the principle of not guilty is replaced by a presumption of guilt. When there is a media short circuit, there is a theme that has to do with the investigation and overexposition of the prosecutors. There is much to do with this, with the reform under consideration. Much has been said about the reform of the prescription and not about a greater constraint on the timing of the trial during the investigation phase. There has been no mention, for example, of the issue of registering crime reports, which is a central point of guarantee for those who are subject to a trial that can even be re-dated. This is a very important intervention. There has been no mention of the fact that, in addition to the extension of alternative rites, a replacement penalty can be negotiated from the stage of the process, without waiting for years, when it becomes executive. There are two consequences: an effective and more appropriate penalty. This too is actually guaranteeing: prison as extreme ratio and appropriate penalties. I understand that when it comes to justice, there is a lot to be done about it, and that may be a bit boring and less spectacular, but that is what we have to do. We must finally close a season that has brought only evil to justice. There is a settlement of accounts between the powers of the State. There is the theme of balance - and I come back to this word - between the powers of the State. However, it is not inaugurating a new season of settlement of accounts that we face it [[Applause]] : we face it with incisive interventions, which in fact are not painless, because - as you can see - they provoke debates and oppositions that we must listen to. There has been a lot of discussion about the prescription, but obviously the issue is the timing of the process and not the terminal moment. With the reform of criminal justice, we take effective action precisely on the timing of the trial. We are the ones who have worked to find a solution, as shared as possible. This too is a sense of responsibility, within the framework of all the technical solutions that had been proposed. In short, the place of reforms is Parliament, so it is not a regulation of accounts in other places; yes to reforms and actions that are right and necessary, here and now. It is from this point of view that we speak to the citizens, to their lives, to their guarantees, to the times of their lives and to their existential human dimension and to citizens in Europe and Italy. From here, from this Parliament, we are in Europe and we look at it with our heads high, not only to do the tasks that are collectively prescribed for us, but because we are Italy and on the law, on the guarantees and on the Constitution we know how to do and we have something to say. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u94	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u96	Grasso (Misto-Leu-Eco). Mr President, Mrs Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the reform of justice that we are debating today is not what I would have liked, but I realize that it is the only one on which the political forces that support the Dragon Government today could agree. I would like to reassure Senator Renzi (who I no longer see in the Chamber), because I have presented a draft law in the Justice Commission on the reform of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, bearing in mind the problem of currents in the judiciary. I believe that, without the necessary and possible constitutional changes, in the event of a draw being envisaged, solutions can be found that will diminish the power of the currents in the CPMP in the judiciary. I therefore invite Senator Renzi to possibly sign the bill, which is already scheduled, and the Italia Viva Group to support the process to bring it to approval. Having said that, I agree with Senator Renzi: what we are about to approve today is certainly a starting point and not an arrival to speed up the processes and reduce the number of them, without weakening the defensive guarantees and thus protecting the victims. Of course, a few moments of deadlock in the trial are reduced, we must acknowledge this; the types of crimes for which the direct summons to the monocratic court is foreseen are extended; the number of criminal offences that can be prosecuted is extended; a digitization of the criminal process is promoted to make it more modern, introducing the obligation to use digital methods; the substitution of short prison sentences is extended and this will certainly have a positive impact on the prison system, avoiding overcrowding. In this regard, excuse the incision, but, Mrs. Minister, it seems to me that it is inconceivable what happened in Frosinone prison, where a prisoner entered into possession of a weapon, shot other prisoners, threatened prison police officers (who - I remember - cannot have weapons with them inside the institutions) and then called - through a cell phone, also illegally owned - their own lawyer. But let us return to the subject we are dealing with. Discourse aside deserves the new discipline on prescription, perceived by many as a cornerstone of reform. I completely disagree with that. Although I do not agree with the new discipline of imprecedibility which is the definitive remedy for the excessive duration of the trials, I understand the reasons for political mediation on the subject and I consider all in all acceptable the proposed solution, which provides for further extensions in case of complexity with additional timetables in case of crimes committed for purposes of terrorism, exversion, armed gang, mob association, mafia political exchange, association aimed at drug trafficking, aggravated sexual violence and other crimes, such as those against public administration. It is hoped that, as provided for in an agenda approved in the Commission, these offences will also include the environmental disaster with a subsequent legislative intervention. It is recalled that it remains excluded, but for the discipline already in force, the applicability of improcability for crimes punished with life imprisonment and this is reassuring. In the various tables in which I participated, I insisted very much on the opportunity of these extensions and on the need to protect the processes from the entry into force of the new discipline, especially for Mafia crimes and terrorism, because they are absolutely different processes, in which we must not only prove responsibility, but often rebuild an environmental context, and therefore they are already by definition complex. I therefore welcomed the transitional provision that the new rules should apply only in appeals for offences committed on 1 January 2020. There has been a long, very complex work within the majority, in meetings and comparisons in which the profound differences (of which it has noted) that animate the relations between political forces so heterogeneous for vision and values have been touched with their hands. For my part, I have tried on every occasion - yes, I admit - to raise a little the bar of the agreement. In the many years in which I have been a magistrate, I have in fact convinced myself that the justice system needs a drastic change, which radically redefines the procedural system: making a decisive choice between the accusatory and the guaranteed inquisitory that was there before. I preferred not to table amendments, just as other Members have done, because, I appreciate all the circumstances, I think it is important not to slow down the path of reform, which is absolutely necessary for the country. In an institutional spirit, therefore, I will vote with my Group for confidence in the Government, but I will not give up sincerity. There is still much work to be done to talk about an innovative change and a genuine reform. There are some problematic aspects, such as extending the tenuity of the matter to crimes such as perjury, manslaughter or kidnapping. I would add that having foreseen that Parliament dictates the general criteria of priority for the prosecution of prosecutors is a vulnus (as you know) to the constitutional principle of separation of powers, which is not only constitutional, but goes back to Montesquieu. At this point, therefore, we expect a fundamental work, after the approval of the delegation, in a healthy dialectical relationship between the Government and Parliament, which I hope concerns all the other issues that we are dealing with. In this regard, I should like to make a further comment. The pandemic has upset our country deeply: over the course of a few months, our way of thinking about priorities has changed, of interpreting the sense of belonging to the national community and of living our daily life. There are many questions that institutions need to answer, while caring for thousands of people, trying to raise our economy and taking a difficult path to face the global challenges that we are called to respond to. Well, for many of these questions there is not already an answer, but we will have to find it and we will have to do it together. It is not irrelevant the method, which you yourself announced, through which these answers must ripen: the confrontation, which all political forces will choose to apply. Our democracy, its forms and its rites are not and will not be immune. I think we should consider this further. At a time when the parliamentary democracy we have known so far undergoes substantial and decisive changes to the Constitution unchanged, although I understand the context, I think it is worrying that Parliament's role in the decision-making process will be substantially reduced. I understand the temptation to speed up the parliamentary procedure also through the technical instrument of trust, indeed two trusts in each article, as I have learned. I understand and share the need for the timeliness of the crisis. I understand and share the fear of missing the opportunity triggered by the recovery plan. At the same time, however, I find it very difficult, if not even dangerous, to accept that Parliament, even if in one branch, is limited to ratifying decisions rather than inspiring them. Having said that, I announce the vote in favour of the Mixed-Free and Equal-Ecosolidal Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u97	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u99	CALIENDO (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, Minister, Undersecretaries, President Renzi has today raised a question that we cannot pretend to forget. Senator Rossomando, you referred to the question of guaranteeing and justiceism. You see, I am not guaranteed as a way of saying: I believe that guaranteeing is the application of the rules, whatever the result, not the interference of politics on the application of the rule. That is why, when Mr Sallusti's book-interview with Mr Palamara came out, I invited the Justice Commission, as President Ostellari will recall, to hold two or three general discussions: this is our task. The Minister of Justice came, however, considering that he could answer all the questions with a draft law for the election of the Supreme Council of the judiciary: he understood nothing. Senator Rossomando, you have posed a problem, saying that: we no longer want the judiciary of the time of the trials in Piazza Fontana. That judiciary, however, was really independent, had certainly made qualitative leaps, compared to a professionalism that had been conquered on the field, and had precisely had the opportunity to resist terrorism, which, in those years, meant resisting with trials without special laws, and those consequences we still have today. Of course, the government's efforts are enormous, but we must begin to assess the issues. Certainly a greater balance has been introduced between the parties to the proceedings, lawyers and prosecutors, in the investigation phase. Minister, I'm part of Forza Italia. I believe in the separation of careers, but even this will not guarantee us effective equality, because the prosecutor will still have tools and possibilities to use them very different from the lawyer. We must realise this and that this philosophy of new relationships does not solve another problem. I joined the judiciary in the 1970s, but until the end of the 1980s, what happened in recent times did not happen. How many trials are there? On the contrary, not the trials: how many investigations and precautionary measures are applied to citizens, even with custody in prison? Then, months or a few years pass and these are acquitted because the fact does not exist. Is that normal? Is this a consequence of our code? I don't think so. So, something's not working. What I will highlight are some issues that I have already raised for as long as eight years: judicial review at the time of registration in the register of suspects. I presented it at the time of the government that was part of the Minister of Justice Orlando and we did not. We did it today, late. It is late because we in this House violated the law in 2013 when we said that a different regulation could be applied to the Commission for the verification of powers, because it was a parajudicial and non-judicial body, as the Constitutional Court said and as it said last year. Who in our country has raised the need to identify general criteria for prosecution, which only Parliament can indicate, even the Supreme Council of the judiciary? Who said these general criteria had to be developed within individual prosecutors? The National Association of Judges. He did not say that today, because today he is opposed, but he goes to take all the acts of the congresses of the National Association of Judges of the Seventies and Eighties, in which the need for Parliament's intervention is highlighted, the only one to have the strength to give general indications within which the prosecutors can then develop their own action. Finally, as we hope, the right to oblivion is introduced in this reform: this means that at last I no longer have the chance to go and search, typing a name, the past of a person. Only our country comes to these serious personality deficiencies. Maybe there are people who, hypothetically, have passed a certain stage of life, after which they behaved well, have become different people. I'm not the guys who live in jail for others. That is the reason, dear Minister, for this whole situation which does not work. In fact, at the moment when we introduced very high penalties, so the trial is not prescribed, why this madness of Bonafede to foresee the prescription after the judgment at first instance? Do you know when the first-degree sentence comes in? It can arrive after 20 years with new penalties, if the crime is prescribed in 20 years. And when the crime of bankruptcy occurred at the time, when the crimes were prescribed after 20 years, what happened? It happened that the magistrates dealt with it for the last time and this led to the lengthening of the time of the trials. Now all these crimes will be prescribed. That is why it was not necessary to foresee the prescription after the judgment at first instance, because this leads to an enormous lengthening of the processes. The consequence will be that all those who will have longer trials, will then have the opportunity to turn to the State to be compensated for the violation from the point of view of the unreasonableness of the times of the trial. Then, you will forgive me, Minister, there was Anna Finocchiaro in this Chamber, who was then leading the Democratic Party, when I supported the short process, which was neither more nor less modulated according to the deadlines set by the European Court in terms of the duration of the trials. When I asked Anna Finocchiaro what the consequence was, if it was not respected, she replied to me - I think it is verbalized - that the consequence was imprecedibility, because this is the fundamental rule. Although I cannot but share - and here is the problem and I understand very well - the political reasons that have led to this. Our friend Alberto Balboni is right: at the moment when the contradiction is highlighted, that is, that it affects the right to limitation (which is a substantial measure, while imprecedibility is a procedural measure), we will certainly have problems. 15.50 a.m. (Follows CALIENDO). We will certainly have problems with compatibility, but I believe that in any case - and that is why the Group of Forza Italia will vote in favour of this bill - we will have to avoid the dirty one of the end of the process never. Ours is still a civilized country, we have not returned to the Stone Age, where hatred of the other remains for life, which we must fight, because our life is governed by the legal civilization of the law that regulates relations between citizens. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u100	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u102	URRARO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, the health emergency resulting from the spread of the pandemic from Covid-19 has led to the emergence of serious risks, but also to the unprecedented potential for reconstruction of the criminal justice system, which remains exposed to great stress due to the rigidity of the entire organizational apparatus and procedures. The epidemic phenomenon is located within a historical ordinamental scenario of criminal jurisdiction already traversed by a deep crisis of effectiveness and authority, whose reasons are well known: the immense amount of news of crime, disproportionate to the ability to treat; the hypertrophy of the investigation, which in the absence of significant controls of the judge has become the media center of gravity of the rite and from which arises the prevalence of the security anxieties and the prejudice of guilt of the suspect; the reduced usability of the simplified rituals of a premium type, which should have given breath to the accusatory process; the irrational proliferation of appealing remedies in lack of effective filters; the asphyxitic and unregulated temporal cadences of the procedure. The answer suitable to restore the culture of jurisdiction and the physiological lines of the right process, whose values are incisively sculpted in Article 111 of the Constitution, consists in implementing, as in the text under consideration, the effectiveness of criminal jurisdiction through a work of reconstruction of the topical moments of the verification of the hypothesis of accusation and of the ascertainment of truth, in compliance with the guarantees, along simpler, transparent, rapid and efficient routes. It was therefore necessary, as in this case, with great effort, to combine simplification, efficiency, quality and guarantees. The investigative investigation, in the absence of significant judicial controls for preliminary investigations, has become the actual centre of gravity of the ritual. From it often arises, also due to the recurring interweaving of relations between prosecutor's offices and press bodies, the prevalence in the community of the prejudice of guilt of the suspect, inexorably struck by media deception, with the consequent risk that the logic of corporate closure prevails contrary to the constitutional line of the ordinamental attraction of the public prosecutor in the system and culture of jurisdiction. The provisions of the bill are due to a fair set of different purposes, among which is the overriding need to accelerate the criminal process also through its deflation and its digitisation, measures that are aimed at strengthening the defensive guarantees and the protection of the victim of the crime. An innovative framework concerns the reasonable duration of the appeal which is provided for in the case of an excessive period of time. In particular, fundamental are the principles and guiding criteria aimed at reforming certain profiles of the discipline in the matter of preliminary investigations and preliminary hearing, affecting the duration of the investigations, remodulating them according to the nature of the offences for which they are carried out; on the registration in the register of the crime in relation to both the premises of which a verification mechanism is envisaged, at the request of a party, that allows the judge to ascertain the timeliness of the registration itself and to retrodate it, both to the effects of the registration, previewing that the same cannot lead to injurious effects both civil and administrative; on the final stage of the investigations, with the objective on the one hand to strengthen the guarantees of the suspect and of the person offended and on the other to reduce moments of stasis of the trial; on the preliminary hearing limiting its prediction through the extension of the catalog of the offences with direct citation before the court in monocratic composition, identifying them among those punished with penalty of imprisonment not exceeding, in the maximum six years, even if combined with the penalty of the multa, that they present no significant difficulty of ascertainment, providing a mechanism of control of the judge on the formulation of the formulation of the formulation of the formulation of the formulation of the formulation of the formation of the accusation. It also affects the decision-making criteria, in particular as regards the rule of judgment for the filing and delivery of the judgment of no place to proceed, replacing the inability to support the prosecution of the elements acquired by the inadequacy of the same elements to allow a reasonable forecast of conviction; on the priority criteria for the prosecution, providing that the offices of the prosecutor, within the framework of the general criteria indicated by the law of the Parliament, identify transparent and predetermined priority criteria to be indicated in the organizational plans of the prosecutors of the Republic in order to select the news of crime to be treated with precedence compared to the others, also taking into account the number of business to be dealt with and the efficient use of the resources available. This legislation also lays down guiding principles and criteria for the reform of alternative rites, with the aim of extending their applicability and making them more attractive, with the effects of the debate rite. In particular, with regard to the plea, the Government will have to allow, when the prison sentence to be applied exceeds two years, that the agreement between the accused and the prosecutor extends to the ancillary penalties and optional confiscation and will have to reduce the extra-criminal effects of the judgment of application of the sentence at the request of the parties, also providing that it has no effect of judging in disciplinary and other cases. In the abbreviated judgment, the Government will intervene on the conditions for the acceptance of the request subject to evidence, providing for its admissibility only if the integration is necessary for the purposes of the decision and if the special procedure produces a procedural economy in relation to the time of the trial. You must provide that the penalty imposed is further reduced by one sixth in the event of the defendant's failure to bring an appeal. Article 1, paragraph 11, with regard to the hearing judgment, contains some directives specifically aimed at the objective of speeding up the procedure, according to which the Government must provide: that the judges must fix and communicate to the parties the schedule of hearings; that the parties illustrate their requests for proof to the extent strictly necessary to verify the eligibility of the hearings; the deposit of technical advice and expertise within a reasonable period prior to the hearing set for the examination of the consultant or expert. It should also provide that, in the event of a change of the judge or one or more members of the college, the judge shall, at the request of a party, re-take the declarative evidence already taken. When the declarative evidence has been recorded by video recording in the contradictory with the person to whom the statements will be used, the judge may only arrange for the re-taking of the evidence if he considers it necessary on the basis of specific requirements. On the basis of these data, which represent a fundamental point of synthesis for the continuation in an area such as that of criminal justice, which has very important social repercussions, I announce the favorable vote of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group, awaiting that it has really wanted to intervene with measures that can no longer be postponed, aimed at the recovery of efficiency of the procedural system. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u103	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u105	LOMUTI (M5S). Mr President, Mrs Ministro, ladies and gentlemen, I have to say that I had an initial loss in listening to the first speech, that of Italy's leader Viva Matteo Renzi. I absolutely do not want to question the courage that is self-attributed by declaring the only man in the galaxy to have the courage, precisely, to speak of magistrates and judiciary, but I fear that it has confused the agenda, because today we are talking about the reform of the criminal process, not about the reform of the system of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. [[Applause]] Having said that, President, the draft law we are about to approve brings the delegation to the Government for the efficiency of the criminal trial as well as in the matter of remedial justice and provisions for the swift definition of judicial proceedings. I consider this to be a very important reform, which pursues certain aims, such as deflation of the criminal process and its acceleration, digitisation; greater defensive guarantees and greater protection for the victim and the implementation of remedial justice, and then the limitation and improbability to exceed the maximum time limits for appeals. I do not go into the matter any further, Mr President, because I think my colleague, Senator Evangelista, has already done it well this morning in the general debate. From this brief list, however, it is understood that the reform under consideration is truly ambitious, aims at a structural review of the process, is part of the thought and ideas of the 5 Star Movement, from the beginning of the legislature, with the Minister of Justice of the Conte Government, Bonafede, and to it are connected the reform of civil justice and that of the legal order of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. As you know, the most sensitive aspect of the measure, from the political and public point of view, is certainly the part about imperviousness and therefore the issue of prescription. I will go back to talking about this specific issue, but it is clear to everyone, Mr President, except for those who do not want to see it by shortsightedness or propaganda, that the cutting of the prescription, as understood by the 5 Star Movement, has been inserted in a much larger and more complex design, to speed up the time of justice, consisting of thousands of recruitments in the field of justice, starting with the extension of the staff of the judiciary, passing through that of the courts and ending with that of the prisons. To this we also add the financing of large sums, destined for judicial and prison geography. I want to clarify one point: we are not voting for a reform written quickly and furiously by the Draghi Government, because the Bonafede reform was to be destroyed. I would also like to highlight another point that I think is very important: when Europe asked us for the reform of justice, Italy already had three reforms of justice ready, because they had already been approved by the Council of Ministers: that of civil justice, which we have already approved, that of criminal justice and that of the MSM. I would like to add - and I would like to thank Mrs Cartabia for this - that we have included in these reforms a reform that is certainly epochal in terms of recruitment of staff in the area of justice. It is epochal, because there are no precedents of an ordinary recruitment plan of about 18,000 units, to which is added the extraordinary plan, inserted in the PNRR, for another 22,000 units, obtained by the Government of Giuseppe Conte. [[Applause]] I would like to add one more thing, for which I thank Minister Cartabia again, namely that the prescription system, intended by Movimento 5 Stars and Minister Bonafede, has remained the one designed in 2020, with regard to the first degree. I have to say that, for three quarters, the establishment of this reform, which we will all vote for, is that of the Movimento 5 Stars, wanted by then Minister Bonafede. So, in order to speed up the process, we felt it was essential to hire more staff. With more staff, in fact, it increases the efficiency of justice and here is the theme of prescription deflates, because the trials will see an end and the machine of justice will work better. We have been and remain the only ones who want to affirm a sacred principle: inefficiency can never result in impunity. [[Applause]] Returning therefore to the most debated part, from the political point of view, that is, the discipline of improcedibility, as proposed by the Government, to the Movimento 5 Stars could not go well, because to foresee the limit of two years in appeal to give rise to the improcedibility, making objectively end in nothing the criminal process, in a country in which the average duration exceeds the term of the two years, for us it means to encourage and solicit the appeal in second degree, thus inflating the Courts of Appeal and obtaining the effect contrary to what must be the aim of the reform and that is to accelerate the times of justice. What have we done? We immediately asked for an implementation of hearings, from which two alarm bells emerged. The first is the risk of a national security problem for Mafia crimes; the second, resulting, is the risk of sending 150 criminal trials to the ground. We have taken on these concerns, in almost all of the silence of politics. I say almost, because a voice has been heard - unfortunately, I add - that of the secretary of the Lega Matteo Salvini, who said that the reform should not be touched, completely ignoring the alarm that was launched by those who of the fight against the Mafia made a reason for life, that is the magistrates antimafia, President. This has surprised us, because from those who have been Minister of the Interior, or Minister of National Security, we expect another attitude, certainly more sensitive to the issues of the fight against organised crime. Mafias don't fight with sweatshirts and slogans. [[Applause. Comments.]] (16.10 p.m.) I must then denounce the behaviour of Forza Italia, who instead took advantage of the confusion trying clumsily to insert an amendment on office abuse, an attempt always foiled by the Movimento 5 Stars. Instead of worrying about the delicate moment for the future of the country's legality, they added other impunity; this attempt we have foiled. [[Applause. Comments.]] But let's move on. What have we done, always us? We have asked and obtained that for all crimes, including environmental crimes [[Comments]] - listen, ladies and gentlemen - until December 2024 the terms for impromptu appeal, under certain conditions, were doubled to four years (no longer two). For Mafia crimes, we have always obtained the extension of the term of improcability, which is not more than two, but six years. And still we, because we are the Movimento 5 Stars [[Applause]] , because for us the state cannot tell those who wait for justice that the gong has played and that for this time nothing is done about it, we have obtained that for all crimes of mafia, vote of political-mafia exchange, terrorism, aggravated sexual violence, [[Comments]] - it hurts, I know, it hurts - international drug trafficking was eliminated the term to trigger imprecedibility.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u106	If any senator who is whistling believes that this is the right way to oppose in Parliament, I have concerns.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u107	Please continue, Senator Lomuti, if the House will kindly allow a colleague to finish his speech. LOMUTI (M5S). Thank you, President, but I can't hear them. I'm sorry. I'll finish. We are grateful to Mr Cartabia for giving us the opportunity to reopen a constructive dialogue before we go to this House with this reform. But we must make it clear that this is not our reform on these issues. We never thought that the text could not be improved and so we did. The Movimento 5 Stars has raised the barricades because we cannot pass on the trials for mafia and terrorism; today, thanks to the Movimento 5 Stars, these trials will not dissolve in nothing. [[Applause.]] If we are labeled as justiceists for these results, we say that we must stop telling lies to citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, without legality there can be no development in the territories. [[Applause. Comments.]] Mrs. Minister, there is still a lot of work to be done and we will do so in the implementing decrees in this spirit. In thanking Minister Alfonso Bonafede, our Minister, and President Giuseppe Conte [[Applause. Comments]] for the commitment they have put in place to improve important aspects of this reform, I declare the vote in favour of the Movimento 5 Stars.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u108	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u109	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u110	CRUCIOLI (Misto-l'A.c'è-LPC). This reform brings the figure of the Dragon Government very strong. On the one hand, authoritarianism and centralization of power, which have manifested themselves in not allowing the Senate and even the House to modify anything and above all in the precise indication of normalizing the judiciary, because, as you know, it is foreseen that it will be politics and therefore always the Government, which also dictates in Parliament, to indicate the priorities for prosecutions and therefore essentially which crimes to pursue and which instead to allow to run. On the other hand, the even more marked figure of this Government is elitism, the defense of the interests of caste, white collars, politicians, administrators, the rich substantially, which manifests itself in the pockets of impunity provided for by this reform. The macroscopic element is the impeccability that will allow all those who can afford it through cavities and good lawyers to take time and arrive at improcability, perhaps even after being convicted in the first degree. Just pull it long enough and magically, after two years on appeal or a year in cassation, there will be improcedibility. Even if there is an extension, the quill is always ready because the provision will have to be motivated for the particular complexity of the judgment, otherwise it will be in cassation and, therefore, who will not resort to cassation? There will be discussion not of guilt or innocence, but of sufficient motivation to justify the extension on the basis of particular complexity. Complexity is not enough. For these reasons, for the vision of society that divides us deeply as you want the defense of the elite and not of the people, the Alternative will vote against. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u111	I communicate that the following bill has been transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies: "Conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No 111 of 6 August 2021 introducing urgent measures for the safe exercise of school, university, social and transport activities" (2395). The measure was assigned to the first permanent Commission, in the contact person, with the opinion of the following Commissions: 2a, 4a, 5a, 7a, 8a, 10a, 11a, 12a, 14a and regional issues. The above-mentioned Commissions are hereby authorised to convene in order to allow the 1st Commission to report to the Assembly at its meeting tomorrow, Thursday 23 September 2021.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u112	I would like to point out the vote on Article 1 on the approval of which the Government has raised the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the matter of trust will take place by roll-call vote. Each senator will vote from his own place, declaring his own vote. I remember that it is necessary to avoid gatherings at the center of the hemicycle. I draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Galliani is drawn by lot). I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Galliani. Tosato, secretary, makes the appeal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I declare the vote closed. I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of Article 1 on the approval of which the Government has put the question of trust: [[Senators present 237 Senators voting 236 Majority 119 Favorable 208 Contrars 28]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). All the amendments and agendas presented in Article 1 of the draft law are therefore not included. I would like to point out the vote on Article 2 on the approval of which the Government has raised the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the matter of trust will take place by roll-call vote. Each senator will be able to vote exclusively from his place, declaring his/her vote. I remember that it is necessary to avoid gatherings at the center of the hemicycle. I draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Lonardo is drawn by lot.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Lonardo. Tosato, secretary, makes the appeal. (In the course of the voting operations the Presidency takes over - at 5.25 p.m.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I declare the vote closed. I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of Article 2 on the approval of which the Government has put the question of trust: [[Senators present 227 Senators voting 227 Majority 114 Favorables 200 Contrars 27]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). All the amendments and agendas presented in Article 2 of the draft law are therefore not included. As agreed by the Conference of Leaders, the final vote on the draft law will take place at tomorrow's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u113	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u115	PELLEGRINI Marco (M5S). Mr President, I asked to speak yesterday because it was the 31st anniversary of the barbaric murder of Judge Rosario Livatino, but I would nevertheless like to remind you today, even if with a day late, because he was indeed a martyr of the conflict with the Mafia, to the point that in May this year he was proclaimed blessed by the Church. The object of my speech today is instead the income of citizenship, an issue that has been discussed a lot in recent months, especially by the Right: in these weeks Salvini said that he will submit an amendment to cash it, Renzi instead would like to promote a repealing referendum. The chorus repeated up to boredom is that income would, to them say, go to mobsters, thugs or people who would not be entitled to it; however official data categorically deny these that, from our point of view, are cowardly lies, since only 3% of the beneficiaries turned out to be irregular. I would be very happy if there were such low rates of fraud for other subsidies and support that the State generously grants to citizens and businesses, but that is never mentioned because they were not approved and promoted by the 5 Star Movement. The detractors claim that because of the income citizenship there would be no seasonal workers, especially in the tourism, hospitality and catering sectors. Even in this case, however, the official data blatantly disproves the chatter around the bar or in the TV lounges. In fact, the contracts for seasonal workers in May 2021 were 148,000, much more than those registered in 2020. This is quite normal because there was the pandemic, but there are many more than those recorded in 2019 and even in 2018. The figures quoted by the detractors of citizenship income are therefore false and are denied by reality, so it is real propaganda. We consider it particularly serious that this propaganda should be made at the expense of fragile people, of our fellow countrymen in difficult situations, who deserve all the help that the community and the State can and must give them, so we really expect this ignoble propaganda to end as soon as possible. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u116	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u117	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u118	PISANI Giuseppe (M5S). Mr President, I have asked to speak in order to draw your attention and this House's attention to yet another act of aggression against medical and health personnel. These are events of the last few days in my province, Syracuse, where in Portopalo a colleague was violently assaulted by two warriors who threw him on the ground causing a dislocation of his shoulder; moreover, in a medical guard, a couple of days ago a violent subject hit a health worker with a warhead because he refused entry. Our political component, together with all the other political forces, has maintained this situation since the beginning of this parliamentary term. I was also the first signatory and promoter of a motion of commitment to the Government, so that rules could be found to increase the protection of health care workers. We doctors and all health workers go to work to save lives. We absolutely do not want to lose ours, just as we would not want it to happen in all other areas of work. We know that, thanks to the joint work of all political forces, a law, No 113 of 2020, has been passed, which precisely contains rules for the safety of health professionals. Norms that, however, still fail to implement in many regions of Italy, above all, due to shortcomings related to the implementing decrees. We now ask the Ministry to immediately activate the already established National Observatory, in order to find suitable solutions so that these phenomena can be contained more effectively. In this we also associate with the recent request made by the president of the National Federation of Doctors' Orders, Dr. Anelli. I conclude this speech by reporting the inspirational thought of a demonstration wanted by Dr. Anselmo Madeddu, president of the Order of Doctors of Syracuse, to which I also belong. Dr. Madeddu organized this event, which was held last Sunday in Piazza Duomo in the Aretusa city. It was a silent manifestation, in which, however, we expressed the inspiring concept of this manifestation: we doctors put our heart and our competence, we ask you for respect and patience.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u119	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-09-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-362.ana.u120	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Thursday 23 September, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5:43 p.m.
