ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-366.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.46 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. MARGIOTTA, secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 6 October. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-366.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-366.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-366.ana.u4	The following draft law was presented by the President of the Council of Ministers and the Ministers for Health, Culture, Economic Development, the Interior and Justice on 8 October: "Conversion into law of Decree-Law No 139 of 8 October 2021 laying down urgent provisions for access to cultural, sporting and recreational activities, as well as for the organisation of public administrations and the protection of personal data" (2409).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-366.ana.u5	The Conference of Leaders approved changes to the current week's timetable and the new timetable until 20 October. The agenda for today's sitting provides for the discussion of the decree-law on the business crisis. The Government has announced the position of the question of trust on an amendment entirely replacing the measure. It has been established that explanations of vote on the matter of trust will take place tomorrow, starting at 9.30 a.m. He'll follow you. Subsequently, the Decree-Law on the operating arrangements for the 2021 electoral consultations, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, will be discussed. The amendments to this decree must be tabled today, before 6 p.m. Also in tomorrow's session will be examined the bill containing the agreement with the Church of England association and the draft laws with ratifications of international agreements defined by the Foreign Affairs Commission. Tuesday, October 19, at 16.30, the Minister of the Interior will make - as requested - an information on the serious events that occurred in Rome on October 9 at the event held in Piazza del Popolo. It will follow the possible examination of ratifications not discussed at tomorrow's sitting. Communications from the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 21 and 22 October 2021 remain confirmed on Wednesday 20 October at 9 a.m. In the afternoon of Wednesday 20, at 2.30 p.m., motions will be discussed on initiatives to follow up the constitutional dictation on the prohibition of the reorganization of the dissolved fascist party and motions on initiatives aimed at countering all forms of violence and totalitarianism, the texts of which must be received by 12 noon on Tuesday 19 October. The Conference of Leaders will meet again on Tuesday 19, at 3 p.m. to define the further planning of the work.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-366.ana.u6	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting today, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - changes to the current week's calendar and the new schedule of proceedings until 20 October: [[Tuesday, 12 October h. 16,30-20 - Drawing of law n. 2371 - Decree-Law n. 118, Business Crisis (ends on 23 October) - Drawing of law n. 2405 - Decree-Law n. 117, Operating methods of elections 2021 (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (ends on 22 October) - Drawing of law n. 2060 - Understanding with the Association "Church of England" - Ratifications of international agreements defined by the Commission for Foreign Affairs Wednesday 13 " h. 9,30-20]] [[Tuesday, October 19 h. 16,30-20 - Information of the Minister of the Interior on the serious events that took place in Rome on October 9 at the event held in Piazza del Popolo - Possible follow-up of unfinished topics -Communications of the President of the Council of Ministers in view of the European Council of 21 and 22 October 2021 (Wednesday 20, 9 a.m.) - Motions on initiatives aimed at following the constitutional dictation on the prohibition of reorganization of the dissolved fascist party and - Motions on initiatives aimed at countering all forms of violence and totalitarianism Wednesday 20 " h. 9-20]] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 2371 (Decree-Law No 118, Corporate Crisis) (Groups 5 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[M5S 54' L-SP-PSd'Az 49' FIBP-UDC 42' Mixed 41'+5' PD 37' FdI 29'+5' IV-PSI 26' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 22' Dissentents to be established]] Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 2405 (Decree-Law No 117, Operational arrangements for elections 2021) (only explanations of vote) Time distribution for discussion on the Communications of the President of the Council of Ministers in view of the European Council of 21 and 22 October 2021 (3 hours and 30 minutes, including explanations of vote) [[Government 30' Groups 3 hours, of which M5S 32' L-SP-PSd'Az 29' FIBP-UDC 25' Mixed 25'+5' PD 22' FdI 17'+5 IV-PSI 16' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 14' Dissentents to be defined]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-366.ana.u7	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2371. The rapporteurs, Senators Modena and Collina, have requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Modena.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-366.ana.u8	Mr President, the Government, Mr Sisto's Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, this decree-law, which has been largely amended in the Commission, consists of two parts: the first concerns the business crisis, and the second includes urgent measures in the field of justice. We are faced with a general framework which must be considered and which must be taken into account in order to frame this measure. This picture is to be found in the statements made by President Draghi when he came to Parliament to ask for confidence in his Government and in the indications contained in the resolutions adopted on the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. These measures, with regard to both the business crisis and the justice sector, are part of a broader plan, which concerns the reform of the civil trial, which this House has recently approved, the reform of the criminal trial, which has been dismissed by both branches of Parliament, the reform of tax justice and the judicial order, which is on the way, and the whole game that covers the code of insolvency and the business crisis. Without these references, it is difficult to understand why there is urgent talk today of a crisis of enterprise and justice. In particular, we must take into account the fact that, in the indications that have been given and which we follow, we stress the need to adapt our rules to the European Union Directive 2019/1023. It addresses the issue of voluntary resolution of corporate crises (in particular out-of-court resolutions), alert mechanisms, the specialization of judicial offices and the creation of online platforms. A ministerial committee, the Pagan Commission, has worked on these reforms; we should see the end of this path by 31 December next year, because this is the recovery timing. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-366.ana.u9	I would pray to disturb Senator Modena's intervention as little as possible. If you really want to talk, keep your voice down.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-366.ana.u10	Please, Senator Modena. MODENA, rapporteur. I was saying that the general framework must be kept in mind, first of all because we have a postponement that concerns the Code of Business Law, which will enter into force on 16 May 2022. This date was not chosen at random, but takes into account the transposition of the directive to which I referred earlier. Alert mechanisms will enter into force from 31 December 2023. In this context, of course, we will have to see the implementation of the directive, which, from this point of view - I would like to remind you because it guides the logic of everything that we are approving - has as its main objective the guarantee, for healthy businesses and entrepreneurs who are in financial difficulties, of accessing effective national frameworks for preventive restructuring that allow them to continue to operate, for honest but insolvent or over-indebted entrepreneurs, to be able to benefit from a second opportunity also through exbitation after a reasonable period of time and to achieve greater effectiveness of restructuring procedures, insolvency and exbitation also through the reduction of their duration. All this is important because on several occasions we have wondered what would happen to companies hit hard by the economic crisis for the Covid-19 and that maybe were already before the health emergency. The path that the country has taken with this Government, to be precise, gives the possibility to entrepreneurs to put in place a series of tools that allow to recognize that it was a remedyable insolvency (even if the latter is not a very technical definition), however giving them the possibility to intervene with some procedures that allow them to return to the market. This is an important change of approach to our bankruptcy law. In order to achieve this objective, the first form implemented by this decree is the negotiated composition of the crisis. In practice, on the initiative of the entrepreneur - it is the entrepreneur in the first place that moves - we seek a recovery and of course we give the possibility to have a support through the experts, that they support it but do not replace it, through the platform that is already in action made with the chambers of commerce, through protective measures that cover all the credits that involve the rights of the worker and a series of possibilities to renegotiate the contracts. I think, for example, of those of duration such as administration. I also think of the possibility of transferring the company or branches of the same without the effects of Article 2560 of the Civil Code and keeping only those of Article 2112 of the Civil Code, that is always those concerning workers. This facility allows the entrepreneur through a voluntary negotiation procedure to close a contract with one or more creditors, to make a moratorium agreement, to close an agreement with everyone, to restructure the debt or to make a recovery plan, a simplified agreement or, for example, the extraordinary administration, if we speak of large companies, with benefits on the one hand of tax and, on the other, protection measures. For example, I think of fraudulent and simple bankruptcy. I'm coming to the operational translation. It is a subject that may seem very technical and complex, but it is actually a keystone in the face of a situation like the one we live in, that we were already carrying with us before the Covid broke out and that today has become worse because we come from a post-pandemic period. With regard to the content of the measure, I would like to mention what is perhaps the most important part in the area of justice. He will then talk about the amendments in the Commission. I am referring to the fact that there is an increase in the staff of 20 magistrates to cover the hole that has been created with the European Public Prosecutor and, above all, a competition to cover the vacancies for 500 magistrates, a measure that obviously relates to all the arguments that have been there, especially in the approval of the civil delegation, but also criminal, in the context of which we have heard that, without the implementation and especially the coverage of the vacant posts, it would have been difficult to resolve the problems of the times of justice. I would like to stress this point in order to complete the work that has been done. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-366.ana.u11	I call the rapporteur, Senator Collina.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-366.ana.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commissions meeting 2nd and 10th have done a useful job of strengthening this measure through the adoption of improved amendments, the result of effective cooperation between the Government and the majority forces. A substantial package of changes concerned precisely the negotiated composition for the solution of business crises. The Commissions have provided for an integral replacement of Article 3. Compared to the original text, the new article provides many innovations starting with the enhancement of the telematics platform. In the new formulation it is managed by the system of chambers of commerce, industry, crafts and agriculture through Unioncamere, under the supervision of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Economic Development. It shall also make available a protocol governing the conduct of the negotiated composition. It is also explicitly planned to adapt the checklist also to the needs of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. Procedures are also improved - for example - by making the use of accountants and accounting experts more flexible; by involving professionals' professional orders more closely and by giving greater time flexibility to the Secretary-General of the Chamber of Commerce in the Communication to the Commission. Finally, more importance is given to the training experience of professionals in relevant subjects, as shown in the curriculum. With the amendments to Article 4, the independence requirements of persons carrying out tasks in the procedures provided for in the Decree-Law under consideration are strengthened; experts cannot maintain professional relations with the entrepreneur unless they are at least two years from the filing of the negotiated composition and must be third in relation to all parties. Article 5 brings improvements in access to the negotiated composition; first of all, the entrepreneur is asked to include in the telematic database a statement stating that he has not filed certain appeals. In addition, the certificate of contributory debts and insurance premiums cannot be replaced, if not available, by the single document of contributory regularity. Article 5 also strengthens the requirements of the expert's appointment; assignments may not exceed one hundred and eighty days, but with a stronger wording of the original text you can continue for another one hundred and eighty days with the consent of all parties. In Article 6, there are specific changes to earlier claims, the non-payment of which precludes the refusal to comply with the termination of pending contracts by the creditors concerned by protective measures prior to the publication of the application. Article 7 specifies that the day on which the appeal is lodged is the same as the day on which the request for acceptance of the expert is published. Article 8 provides for a new possibility for the entrepreneur, who may declare that the capital reduction obligations for loss of social capital, as referred to in Articles 2446 and 2447 of the Civil Code, are not applicable to him, even with a declaration made through the telematic platform and published in the register of undertakings, when the effects of the declaration or application enter into force. Article 9 specifies the conduct of the entrepreneur. He is asked to manage the company in such a way as to avoid prejudice to the economic and financial sustainability of the business, not only when there is a likelihood of insolvency. Where there is such a probability, but with concrete prospects of recovery, the entrepreneur manages the business in the prevailing interest of the creditors, remaining firm his responsibilities. In Article 10, it is laid down that the authorization to the entrepreneur for the transfer of the holding by the court shall be based on the measures deemed appropriate, taking into account the requests of the parties concerned in order to protect the interests involved. Three improvements are made to Article 11. First of all, the rule on the non-necessity of attesting the truthfulness of the company data and the feasibility of the recovery plan is reworded. In addition, the entrepreneur may propose the simplified request for arrangement only after the outcome of the negotiations and, finally, a specific rule is introduced for agricultural enterprises, which, as an alternative to the proposed solutions, can access the procedures of agreement on the restructuring of debts or the liquidation of assets governed by Articles 7 and 14-b of Law no. 3 of 27 January 2012. Turning to Article 15, an approved amendment removes possible interpretative doubts due to the current provision, because of the solidarity of the mayors' responsibility with that of the administrative body. Article 16 is strengthened by providing for new ways of determining the expert's remuneration in order to encourage as much as possible the preferred outcomes. Article 17 extends the documentation to be produced by the contractor under threshold in order to exempt the expert from the acquisition of the company's accounting documents and from the preparation of the report on the entrepreneur's financial and financial situation and from the updated list of creditors of the related rights, since they are particularly burdensome activities, not compatible with the expedition of the composition. With regard to Article 18, the conditions for access to the simplified arrangement are enhanced in order to link this option to the smooth and proper conduct of negotiations and to prevent abusive conduct. In Article 20, among the prerequisites of the agreements with extended effectiveness, it is specified that the satisfaction of the creditors must be guaranteed to no less than the liquidation alternative, that is, than the alternative of bankruptcy, according to the analogous provision in the Code of the crisis of enterprise, to Article 61, paragraph 2 (d). Furthermore, in establishing the indifference of the agreement with respect to mortgages entered in the register of undertakings within 90 days of its publication, the use of this negotiated instrument for the settlement of the crisis is encouraged. The latest amendments adopted concern Article 23. The request for a negotiated settlement may not be lodged in the presence of proceedings with an appeal lodged pursuant to the sixth paragraph of Article 182-a of Royal Decree No 267 of 16 March 1942, or with an appeal for access to the procedures for the restructuring of debts or the liquidation of assets, as referred to in Articles 7 and 14-b of Law No 3 of 27 January 2012. Finally, it is provided that the provisions of Article 20 (1) shall apply to all insolvency proceedings and pending enforcement proceedings. The additional interventions have already been described by the rapporteur, Mrs Modena. I would simply add, in conclusion, that this is a significant measure, which will certainly help businesses in this phase of economic recovery and which certainly brings with it so many contradictions that come out of the pandemic. Of course, the new procedure will have to be reviewed and evaluated, also following the data that will reach us in its application, to understand, when it will no longer be possible to extend the entry into force of the Code of Crisis, what kind of relationship there will be between these two procedures. Clearly, this is a new procedure that has been introduced pending the entry into force of the crisis code. When the crisis code comes into force, we will have to assess how the new procedure can possibly be continued or implemented differently. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-366.ana.u13	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Urraro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-366.ana.u14	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the provisions of this text arise from the need to intervene in the current socio-economic context in order to counter the effects that the crisis has produced in companies and over-indebtedness, intervening in the matter of insolvency and competition procedures relating to it, in order to identify suitable measures to stimulate the emergence from the crisis in such a delicate time period, which seriously undermines the productive dynamics with very serious implications from the occupational point of view and which attack the productive cycle of much of the national economy. A number of extraordinary and emerging measures have taken place during this period, with different objectives for the protection of public health, employment and the general economic and social fabric. However, other and different instruments need to be prepared at the moment of transition at a recovery stage, such as the current one, in order to encourage development in all sectors. It is at this point that different scenarios can be envisaged, from a situation of temporary and irreversible liquidity crisis to the most serious situations of loss of business continuity itself, as well as of crisis or insolvency of the company. The outlined perspective has taken into account the entry into force on 15 August 2020 of Legislative Decree No. 14 of 2019, which already provided for the reform of bankruptcy law through the introduction of the crisis code, in which alternative crisis resolution mechanisms are identified, as well as warning tools that prodromically allow to intervene to mitigate the effects of debt, allowing continuity of business activity through even out-of-court solutions. If not, simplified procedures for the cessation of the holding or the branch of the holding are favoured. However, the entry into force of the Code would have led to the repeal of the current bankruptcy law, with the result that a large number of corporate crisis cases, most of which were directly related to Covid, would have been regulated by a completely new regulatory body. In order to avoid, therefore, that the application uncertainties of the discipline or the functioning of the institutions discussed, such as the alert measures, could further aggravate the situation of difficulties of the enterprises, Article 5 of the Decree-Law liquidity had appropriately postponed the period of entry into force of the entire regulatory complex to 1 September 2021. The Decree-Law under consideration contains urgent measures in the area of corporate crisis and corporate consolidation and provides for further urgent measures in the field of justice. In particular, it postpones the entry into force of the Corporate Crisis and Insolvency Code to 16 May 2022, with the exception of provisions specified in a specific title of the Code (the second), concerning the alert procedures and the assisted composition of the crisis before a company crisis composition body (Ocri), for which the entry into force is fixed at 31 December 2023. The measure introduces and regulates, in particular, the negotiated settlement procedure of the crisis: a new voluntary institution which is accessed through an institutional national telematic platform, which offers the entrepreneur the support of a third and independent expert to facilitate, in a confidential way, negotiations with creditors. The decree-law regulates in detail possible solutions adopted following the procedure and provides, inter alia, in the case of failure to identify a solution suitable for overcoming the crisis situation, the possibility for the entrepreneur to submit a proposal for arrangement for the disposal of assets, together with the liquidation plan, the so-called simplified agreement for the liquidation of the assets. The text also makes a number of changes to the bankruptcy law, with the anticipation of some negotiating instruments provided for in the crisis code. It has, among other things - and this is important - an increase of twenty units in the organic role of the staff of the ordinary judiciary, all too often suffering, in order to ensure that the implementation of the European legislation relating to the European Public Prosecutor established, and by virtue of which twenty magistrates have been assigned functions of delegated European Public Prosecutor, does not lack the resources of the judiciary and prosecutors of the Republic. The text also includes measures aimed at speeding up, through the use of digitisation, the procedures for payment of compensation for fair redress, in the event of a breach of the time limit for the reasonable duration of the trial - another central theme of our justice system - and of the other amounts due on the basis of legal instruments. Introduces a derogation framework, valid only for the year 2021, on the allocation of resources of the Single Fund of Justice (FUG), providing for the immediate reallocation of the allowances paid at the State's budget entry in 2020 and the estimates of the Ministries of Justice and Home Affairs. In the course of examination in the Commissions gathered, which I thank for the valuable contribution, significant amending proposals have been introduced: in particular, the rewriting of Article 3 appears valuable, proposed with a special amendment, specifying that the platform is managed by the system of chambers of commerce, through Unioncamere, under the supervision of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Economic Development, intervening on the modalities of registration to the list of experts. Then there is the inclusion, proposed with a special amendment, of specific provisions on extraordinary administrative procedures for large insolvent companies, and the introduction of specific provisions on competition for the recruitment of ordinary magistrates, which is a very significant issue. In the field of justice, since intervention in insolvency proceedings must necessarily be framed in a European context, including the outcome of a specific directive, the European Council itself, in the annual recommendations that often anticipate every act, in particular of the 2nd Commission, has urged Italy to reduce the duration of civil trials in all degrees of judgment, as well as to increase the effectiveness of the prevention and repression of corruption, reducing the duration of criminal proceedings and implementing the new anti-corruption framework. The PNRR itself identifies the slow implementation of some structural reforms as a potential limit for growth in our country. In order to achieve these objectives, therefore, the priority areas of action were not only the reforms of the processes and rites that we have recently launched in this House, but also the changes to the insolvency code, which we have been particularly concerned with in this deepening. It is therefore essential, specifically with regard to the last of the objectives referred to, in particular in the annexes to the PNRR, to make the amendments highlighted to the Code of Business Crisis and Insolvency, thus implementing a European prescription in a very clear way: I am talking about Directive No 1023 of the European Parliament and of the European Council of 2019 on restructuring, debitation and insolvency procedures. Out-of-court resolution agreements should therefore be reviewed in order to encourage the parties to make greater use of them, including in the interests of deflagration and simplification, by strengthening alert mechanisms; by specialising the judicial offices and administrative authorities responsible for competition procedures; by implementing the digitisation of procedures, including through the creation of a dedicated online platform, an issue to be developed. Clearly, this is the outcome of the clear implementation of the aforementioned Directive of 20 June 2019 of the European Parliament and of the Council, which aims to contribute to the proper functioning of the internal market, and to remove obstacles to the exercise of fundamental freedoms, on which we are fighting so much, such as the free movement of capital and the freedom of establishment, resulting from the differences between national laws and procedures on preventive restructuring, debitation, insolvency and even prohibition. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-366.ana.u15	He's enlisted to speak Senator Caliendo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-366.ana.u16	Mr President, the effects of the pandemic are still present and will be encountered for a long time in the economic situation of our country, in particular on the functionality of companies. Therefore, I share the Government's initiative to postpone the entry into force of the 2019 Legislative Decree and to have introduced tools that can help resolve the problems of companies and that could not be addressed with the institutions of the bankruptcy law. I must say, Mr Undersecretary, that I share everything about the new law, as I shall say shortly. On two points, perhaps I could make a suggestion. The first is - I know very well that you agree with my position - a statement of impromptuness made at the beginning of the debate concerning the examination of lawyers. This draft law has, as a second subject in addition to the crisis of enterprise, also that of solving urgent problems of justice. We all know that the examination for a lawyer takes place in early December and, therefore, not having taken into account that that legislation could be included in this decree-law - in my opinion - was a mistake. This reform will be successful and will be able to give guarantees to companies if the committee that is to appoint the expert - I will discuss this figure specifically - is chosen from among professionally adequate subjects and from among those who are able to develop a business policy with the criteria that the law itself lays down. The law says, in relation to the requirements of the expert, that he works in a professional, confidential, impartial manner, which means that he will not have the need to resort to advertising, press conferences and such things, but the intention is to give impartiality to his function. Another negative aspect is that the commission to appoint the expert is actually composed of a member appointed by the president of the section specializing in business of the district capital, usually with that of the Region; a second appointed by the Chamber of Commerce and a third appointed by the prefect of the capital of the Region. I believe that it was necessary to introduce an element that varied according to the person who was to be appointed, starting from the company's headquarters, in order to indicate a fourth member who was indicated by the President of the court or by the President of the bankruptcy section, in order to be aware of the political, economic and social situation of that particular area. Just refer to Lombardy, my Region: the situation in an area of the Mantua is completely different from the situation of an area of Sondrio or Bergamo. There are realities that need to be taken into account. Coming to the question of the expert, I will have to lose a few minutes, because I realize every day more than in the Senate, but even talking to people, it is difficult to discuss and evaluate what requirements are needed when a function is performed by a person who normally carries out another activity. To give an example, even from my own position, I am acting as a senator, but at the same time as chairman of the dispute committee. In this latter capacity I find myself having to meet the requirements that the expert should have: confidentiality, professionalism and impartiality. As a senator, I do my job taking into account the politics, my ideas, the policies of my party, my parliamentary group and developing political action in that sense. Are the two issues in contrast? No. When I find myself judging vitalities, as a judge I have to say whether or not the law has been violated; when I am debating in the Senate, I can find a solution that is also different from what I think is wrong, already adopted, to find the right one. This, however, is possible for the politician, but not for the judge. The judge, however, must guarantee legal certainty, as the expert we are going to appoint must have that strong professionalism that allows him to resist any indication from those who have appointed him. You will remember that, in the second half of the seventies, the Italian judges who dealt with companies often did not declare bankruptcy, but resorted to the controlled administration to resolve and safeguard the remaining employment capacity of the company. The consequence - I spoke of it at the Congress of Viareggio of the National Association of magistrates - was however that what was a right solution, because it met the need to safeguard the residual employment capacity of the enterprise at a time of crisis of employment in our country, from the point of view of the impact on the enterprise turned out to be a mistake, because the enterprises were kept alive only to give the possibility to keep the people still occupied and this determined the definitive failure of many companies whose position was not yet so serious, except to become it later. What is the basic requirement that the expert must have? There will have to be mathematical certainty that the choice made by a commission, which will last two years, is such that the expert is capable of developing a project: therefore the expert must not only be an accountant or lawyer, but must also have a serious experience in the management of business activities. In fact, on this part the rapporteurs have changed the initial letter of the measure, which even distinguished between professionalism and I know that the Undersecretary was also responsible for this change. What is the philosophy then? Is he an expert who has to lead to the safety of the company? No. If he is a true expert and professionally prepared, when he realizes the impossibility of reaching the safety of the company, he must give up and ensure that the application can be archived. That is the logic and we must clarify it with our speeches in this House: it is the interpretation of the norm, because the norm lives not only of what is written, but also of how it is interpreted by those who wrote it, and we wrote it to render a service to the country. At a time of difficulty we want to give real help to the enterprise but, at the same time, also a contribution that is such as not to disperse useless money in order to achieve the maximum possible employment and overcome the difficulties of the moment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-366.ana.u17	Senator Ripamonti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-366.ana.u18	Mr President, the aim of this measure - as other speakers have already mentioned - is to meet the difficulties faced by companies, as the current one is a period of serious economic crisis. In particular, this measure is based on two major pillars. The first was the postponement of the entry into force of the Corporate Crisis Code and insolvency, with the exception of the parties relating to the alert procedures and the assisted composition of the crisis before the corporate crisis composition body (Ocri), for which the entry into force is fixed at 31 December 2023. The other pillar was the introduction of the discipline of the new negotiated crisis settlement procedure, a new voluntary institution accessed through an institutional national thematic platform, which offers the entrepreneur the support of a third and independent expert to facilitate confidential negotiations with creditors. It must be said, for the sake of honesty, that this measure, which falls within the competence of the Commissions meeting 2a (justice) and 10a (industry, trade, tourism), I believe was more relevant to the scope of the 2nd Commission. In any case, having said that, we can try to develop a reasoning also from the point of view of the business crisis. The measure makes a whole series of changes to the bankruptcy law - which is why it concerns justice more - with the anticipation of some instruments of negotiating settlement provided for in the crisis code. The work we have done in the Commission has tried to improve, as far as possible, the measure. For this I thank the Undersecretary Sisto and the Undersecretary Bini, who have made a huge contribution aimed at facilitating the work of the Commissions, and the two rapporteurs, Senator Collina and Senator Modena. It was a fruitful work and synergy, which we have carried out together, in particular with the approval of some proposals that provide that the platform is managed by the system of chambers of commerce, through Unioncamere, under the supervision of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Economic Development. I also mention: an intervention on how to include experts in the list; the inclusion of specific provisions on the extraordinary administrative procedures of large insolvent companies; the extension of the date of approval of the accounts for the financial year 2022 and the time limit for the first appointment of the auditor or control bodies by certain limited liability companies and cooperative companies; the guarantee that the expert is a person not related to the undertaking or other parties involved in the consolidation of personal and professional relationships; and many other changes that will need to be further improved in the text of the measure. In particular, I would like to point out the acceptance of the agenda already presented by my Group to extend, following the results of the monitoring to be carried out after 12 months from the platform's operational date, to the chambers of commerce, industry, crafts and agriculture located in the district of each court of appeal with a court of business section, the training of the list of experts, the place where the application for inclusion in the list must be submitted and the site where the committee appointing the expert must take place. With this agenda we want to remedy an anomaly that could in fact put in difficulty the enterprises of some areas of the Country that, having a high density of registered enterprises, would risk very great difficulty in achieving the objectives that the measure aims to. We tried from this point of view. The agenda should go in that direction and we will ensure that it is put into practice. I would also like to point out the acceptance of another agenda that commits the Government to assess the possibility of specifying, with a specific regulatory measure, the modalities and requirements of participation of the associations of category of the local level. I would also like to draw attention to the adoption of our amendment, which provides that the provisions in question apply to regions with special status and the autonomous provinces of Trento and Bolzano. The specific nature of the measure has not in fact allowed the inclusion within it of some amendments which, while touching on issues related to enterprises - that is why at the beginning I pointed out that perhaps the part relating to justice was more prevalent than that relating to enterprises, although the two issues are obviously related - and to tourism, have been defined as impossible. I am referring in particular to an amendment on youth hostels, which, while obtaining the favourable opinion of the Ministry of Tourism - and I take this opportunity to thank Mr Giorgetti for that - has been excluded from the examination in the Commission. The theme obviously does not disappear, but remains. That of hostels is a problem linked to a sector that has been experiencing for too long a dramatic situation, in which the issue of employment level is not secondary, which is failing. We are talking about a heritage linked to the preservation of the historical brand that, both from the economic point of view and in terms of real estate, is really important. [[Applause]] The tourism generated by this sector is the socially sustainable one, linked in particular to the International youth hostel federation network, which, using the experience of the Italian Association of Youth Hotels, founded in December 1945, allows many to enjoy the 1,154 UNESCO sites scattered in our country. Mr President, I shall conclude. What is described is part of the process of rebirth of our country and of strengthening the fabric of our companies, which this Government seeks to propose. We have witnessed in the just past summer season a remarkable increase in work and turnover; I come from a tourist province and, therefore, I have experienced this increase with my hand. This path must not be interrupted at all. We must not lose even a minute and, above all, we must not get lost in issues that are not closely linked to the goal of the Dragon Government, that is, the real recovery of this great country called Italy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-366.ana.u19	She is registered to speak Senator Tiraboschi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-366.ana.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the two rapporteurs have already said a lot from a technical and political point of view and Mr Caliendo has also anticipated a series of reflections that I too would have liked to have done. With regard to justice, we all - both politics and entrepreneurs - know very well that one of the main objectives, however recommended by the Country report on human rights practices 2020, is to reduce the times of civil and criminal trials. Therefore, this is certainly the most important mission that we resume through the reforms contained in the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, which truly considers the reform of justice as a horizontal infrastructure that affects all areas of intervention of the same Plan. I too am in favour of an analysis of the measure that we are about to vote on, and above all of a number of institutions that really go in the direction of speed and simplification. I am referring, for example, to the negotiated composition of the crisis, the voluntary institution to which entrepreneurs can join knowing that they are accompanied by professionals. Mr Caliendo is right when he says that it is not said that the professional - be it lawyer, auditor or accountant - is able to carry out a concrete, positive analysis, aimed not only at restructuring the debt - it is certainly an issue on which great attention must be paid - but also above all to repositioning the company on new markets, towards new customers, on new commercial policies and so on. It is not said, that these professionals know well how to relocate the productive factors within the company. Therefore, it is hoped that they will have these skills in their skills, because the others are the so-called basic competences, those on the basis of which accountants and lawyers already assist us entrepreneurs. Reconverting a company to a new commercial paradigm, to new markets, is, instead, much more complex action that requires the typically entrepreneurial ability - on this we could open a further reflection - that is to know how to evaluate the so-called return of capital in relation to risks, and to know how to allocate well - I repeat - these productive factors, which are both human resources with their qualifications, their professionalism and their roles and financial capital. It is precisely on the subject of corporate reorganization that I would like to make the more argumentative reflection of my speech and, therefore, to carry out an analysis of an economic-company character rather than an analysis that interprets - also because, I am very sincere and I must say that I am unable to do so - the legal instruments available. An efficient business crisis management system is - as we all know - a very important factor for the development of a country, because the evolution of knowledge and socio-economic context greatly alters the competitive framework, to the point that it could overturn even an order of priority within the sectors. How many times, in the last century, we have said that digital was not so important, while today we realize that it is very important and constitutes the enabling infrastructure of all sectors. I do not want to be misunderstood, because it is certainly a very important piece of economy, but in the same way, in the last century, we said that, above all, the automotive sector represented an economic sector of great importance for the country's GDP. So these changes, really very fast and sudden, typical of the time that we are living, also impose the ability to intercept through an early prediction - let me define it this way - what could happen tomorrow. If you do not have this ability to anticipate, you risk not saying failure, but certainly a negative situation for the productive context of the country. So these professionals should be able to separate very well the companies that may have to restructure an extremely important debt, but that are still able to face the changes and new challenges, from the companies that instead could have a less important and much easier debt to restructure, but that do not have within them those productive factors that can intercept the new challenges. If this distinction is wrong, in a context in which there are tools that facilitate the interlocking of the entrepreneur with his trusted professional in order to manage a moment of crisis and bring the company back in the economic competition, you risk saving all the companies. So my recommendation is certainly to have a great deal of attention to the production environment, but if a company does not make it, it is useless to try to save it at all costs. I therefore return to the initial reflection, which concerns the productive factors, but above all the human resources and, consequently, the real problem of our country, which is the generational change. We have a number of small and medium-sized family businesses where, as you know, generational replacement is the real challenge, on which we are extremely late. In fact, family management has not opened a process of delegation, even to members of the family - on which I am personally very critical - or, as would be preferable, to external subjects and managers, who could enter companies with a potential yet to be expressed. There is one more point to make: I read today that our Deputy Minister for Economic Development has proposed using a significant part of the resources, amounting to EUR 1.5 billion, not only to introduce digital training, but also for financial training in schools. This is very important, because I believe that there are two illiteracy in Italy: the digital one and the financial one. The leverage is complex, but it is nothing so impossible to understand: you can know it perfectly well and, if you know it well in all its potential, it can certainly be used to produce real wealth in the real economy: this is a reasoning that fits perfectly into all the speeches we have made, about the content of the measure under consideration. So we do the good of the country and the productive fabric, not only of entrepreneurs, but also of workers. Think of the difference between workers working in a decorate enterprise, in which they risk not taking their wages every day, and workers who instead have the opportunity to stay in challenging and innovative companies and in which they also have a much more rewarding career. In the first case the workers will be led to spend much less and therefore their attitude on consumption and savings would reverberate on the economy in a negative way; in the second case, they would instead spend much more. In conclusion, a reflection must also be made on the banking system because we spend a lot of resources for professionals, which cost a lot because they skilled on these corporate crises, which instead of dedicating themselves to re-launching businesses and understanding the business of each individual entrepreneur, must employ their resources - which, I repeat, are extremely expensive - in these procedures to resolve crises. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-366.ana.u21	Senator De Bertoldi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-366.ana.u22	Mr President, in this somewhat empty Chamber, in which I do not see - if not to a very small extent - the friends of the Democratic Party, I would like to ask them whether they think I am outside the constitutional arc, since the Deputy Secretary of the Democratic Party (so certainly not the last member) has addressed my National President saying that he is outside the constitutional arc. He wrote it, he didn't say it, so verba volant, scripta manent. Before I begin my speech, I would therefore like to address my colleagues, hoping that they will not consider me and the party that today is considered by most pollists the first Italian party outside the constitutional arc by the will of the Deputy Secretary of the Democratic Party. I therefore go into the merit of the problems because they are not used to escape, but I am certainly also usually remember the undemocratic statements that are spoken in these days, in a climate in which civil confrontation should be demonstrated first of all by those who have political positions and hold important and reference roles for our country. We are here today to talk about the crisis of enterprise in a moment of pandemic crisis, in which there are really hundreds of businesses in distress. I am thinking of some sectors, such as dance and play, but also of the moments of great difficulty that have experienced the catering, hotel and tourist sectors. Well, in the face of all these crises, there is a decree that basically contains only one thing, namely the extensions. The mountain actually gave birth to the mouse of the extension, which was necessary, but certainly it was necessary much more, as the Brothers of Italy asked and as our very good colleagues of the Group, including Mr Balboni, have repeatedly reiterated in the competent Commissions. Why, in addition to the extensions, did we not want to give feedback also in terms of aid? The aid has been insufficient, even if only by comparing it with those of the other countries of that Europe to which so much is referred. Some help was needed and could be given to the sectors most affected by the crisis and the pandemic. We could also address the issue of credit, because we know - or better, we should know who is used to engage professionally in Italian companies - that credit is one of the fundamental and fundamental themes of the business crisis. We are well aware of all the concerns about non-performing loans (NPLs), which could aggravate our national economic system as a result of the end of moratoria next year. We know very well that the Italian small and medium-sized enterprises, which I mentioned earlier and that more than others have suffered the pandemic crisis, already in the last ten years, according to data from the CGIA of Mestre, have recorded less 26 percent of access to credit. In a few days, at the end of this month, we will have the full implementation of Basel 3, with further difficulties in providing liquidity and credit to our companies. And this decree-law, colleagues, did you foresee anything? When we have and have discussed these issues in the Commissions, it seems to me that nothing has been said about what is perhaps the fundamental problem of a company in crisis, i.e. credit. In the light of what we have said, in the light of Basel and the reduction in credit over the last ten years, in the light of the calendar provisioning, in the light of the moratoria that have expired, in the light of all these problems, nothing has been said. We have tried to make proposals, as is the custom of a party absolutely within the constitutional arc, of a party, dear colleagues of the Democratic Party, which is defending itself, with a small handful of valiant representatives of the citizens, the freedoms, the Constitution and democracy, despite your continued recourse to the vote of confidence. I would like to reread to the friends of the Movimento 5 Stars what they said in the last legislature on the recourse to the vote of confidence; never like in this legislature, in which you were in the government with all the possible majorities, colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars, has recourse been made to the vote of confidence (I believe it is not an opinion, but an objective given). I'd like to understand why this is happening. You have committed worse violations of the Constitution than those perpetrated by your current PD allies, who you embraced today and were offended yesterday. I would like to understand who is fighting against the abuse of the decree of urgency, who is trying to defend the freedom of citizens not to have to submit to a mandatory green pass (the only country in the world), forcing companies that do not want to limit their productivity (even companies in crisis) to pay out of their own pocket the buffer for workers, because a company, an SME without 20% of its employees is not able to continue their commitment and their work. You and CGIL and the unions are forcing them to pay for their own pocket swabs. This is unacceptable, but it is not a business crisis! [[Applause]] Colleagues, Brothers of Italy will not end by defending the freedoms and defending the Constitution, which those who believe themselves within the constitutional arc are betraying every day. It will stop at nothing and will continue to defend Italians, defend citizens and workers. We have also tabled an important amendment, which was not political, it was neither right-wing nor left-wing. It was simply declared inadmissible. I think it is right that it should be known that the Brothers of Italy asked, if you had accepted our suggestion, that those companies that hire workers in cash integration without the possibility of continuity of the activity, so that perhaps in cash integration at zero hours of failed enterprises, could benefit from the Jobs Act and the contributory benefits. Well, yes, you have made it unacceptable for us; you have made unacceptable a measure that we asked for to facilitate the absorption into the real economy of those workers - I repeat - in a zero-hour integration fund and without the possibility of having a future. The majority, the government, the presidency of the Senate declared it inadmissible. And this comes not from intuitions, but comes from the knowledge of the problems of the companies, it comes from the fact that in my Trentino a company that gives work to 100 employees risks to close because the INPS is contesting the benefits of the Jobs Act, after they had saved workers to zero hours in fund integration. So, ladies and gentlemen, on the issues confront you and don't close yourself inside the barriers and fences. Avoid doing what is going on ignobly in these hours, where, instead of talking about the companies, companies and problems of Turin, Milan and Rome, we are talking about something else. The strategy of tension is undemocratic and contrary to the interest of the country and unfortunately we are all living it on our own. Mr President, I wanted to make this reasoning based on concrete data and the decree-law on business crises to get to politics. If, in fact, this is the policy, we must all take a deep examination of conscience; it must be done especially by those who, instead of providing answers, offend the only opposition of this country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-366.ana.u23	Senator Pillon is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-366.ana.u24	Mr President, the work done in the Commissions meeting on the Decree-Law for our examination has certainly been useful, important and has also made it possible to improve certain aspects of a rule which, however, sees us in favour of it. It is a commendable attempt to meet the many businesses in our country that are in a situation of blameless crisis. All of us who work on the territory and know the companies of our beautiful country know how much the crisis caused by the Covid, but even before the economic crisis, had provoked deep lacerations in the entrepreneurial fabric and very often the answers that were given by the law and the state apparatus were completely insufficient. We took part in the work on the rewriting of the bankruptcy law, but there were still no fundamental elements, in our view. Something in this decree-law is certainly there. All the solutions for a negotiated composition of the business crisis see us favorable, as favorable we see all the professional figures that go to accompany the entrepreneur in the moment of his difficulty. In this regard, I would like to focus briefly on the peculiarity of the Italian business fabric, which is very often made up of small and medium-sized family businesses. They are companies that don't fire, that don't go to the integration fund, but that simply add a hole to the belt when the moment gets tough.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-366.ana.u25	Mr Undersecretary, I would not like them to complain about your absence from the benches of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-366.ana.u26	PILON (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to thank you for drawing the attention of the Government, but I am sure that Mr Sisto was careful because he worked with us to improve the text, which, as I said, was already very good. The entrepreneurial fabric of our country is imbued, fed and supported by the small family business, which does not fire and does not ask for cash integration because the employee is normally the son, the nephew, the daughter-in-law, the wife and the husband. This fabric, which as a link and partnership of life also becomes a link and economic partnership, capable of enriching and increasing our economy, is precious and we in this House have the task of protecting and defending it. The small, medium and also large family business has given lustre to our country and has transformed, as we know, the production districts into a model that is studied all over the world. The rule then seeks to offer to the entrepreneur who is in blameless crisis a help and help that are not those of the failure or the classic bringing the books to court, as unfortunately until today has substantially been, but it identifies itself and goes to invent the figure of the expert that arises in a situation in which it can not only advise, but also protect the assets of the entrepreneur, the company, the business continuity and obtain the rescue of the company and its restart without having to go from the bankruptcy. It is a very providential norm, which also puts at the centre the task of the chambers of commerce that are, in turn, an excellence of our country and that are valued with this standard. The only small fact is the hope that our agenda, which has been accepted by the Government, will then become reality and thus allow itself not only to the chambers of commerce of the capitals of the Region, but also to the chambers of commerce of the cities seat of court of appeal to be able to intervene effectively in support of the companies of their territory, through a direct involvement in the mechanisms provided for by the norm. I say this because I have present the example of my native city, Brescia, which is the capital of Province, seat of court of appeal, at the center of an industrial district among the most florid of our country and that however, rebus sic statibus, should refer to Milan for all regarding the procedures provided by this norm. The same thing happens in Lecce, another center of entrepreneurship and other court of appeal, although it is not the capital of the Region; the same happens in Catania and Salerno. The agenda that the Government has accepted and that we hope becomes reality aims to monitor the situation with the commitment to revise it in a year, as the undersecretary Sisto has guaranteed us, in order to verify the opportunity to extend also to the capitals of Province, court of appeal, everything planned today only for the chambers of commerce of the capitals of Region. In conclusion, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we must continue on this path. The way forward cannot be to have, on the one hand, an increase in taxation, which is absolutely despicable and unacceptable and, on the other hand, a sort of abandonment of the entrepreneurial fabric to itself. We must raise, support and enhance the fate of those who today - I use a word that may be excessive, but I hope it doesn't seem so - heroically still start to do business, heroically still decides to give work, to develop a sector, to restart a territory and decides to do so very often against everything and against everyone, against a tax, bureaucratic and administrative system that seems to be done specifically to penalise anyone who today decides to do business. The decree-law at our examination is a small piece that goes in the right sense of history, but that must be completed by the largest and most important of the dowels that is, on the one hand, the bureaucratic simplification and, on the other hand, the simplification and fiscal relief. These two measures are essential, because I would not like to forget here that, very often, entrepreneurs are in crisis because it is the State that does not pay. Don't ever happen again that an entrepreneur is in crisis because the state doesn't pay. It is something that we in this House cannot allow. I would therefore like to thank my fellow Members who, both in the Commission and in this House, have voted and will vote for this decree, which, as I said, is a step in the right direction, but it is a small step. In order to support our businesses at international level, at the level of total economic and business globalisation, we still need to do much, but much more. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-366.ana.u27	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lanzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-366.ana.u28	Mr President, I am speaking in general debate in the context of this important measure, adopted by the Government last August in order to introduce urgent measures in the area of corporate crisis and corporate consolidation. The fight against inequalities, iniquities and social inequality has always been at the heart of the political action of the 5 Star Movement. This is a general principle that has animated our work inside and outside the parliamentary classrooms. A principle that was already valid before the pandemic overwhelmed the whole world and our country and that is even more valid now, that we are finally coming out of the darkest period of the pandemic. This is for us an omnibus concept, which must certainly be applied to citizens and workers, but also and above all to our businesses. In these months a figure has appeared very clear: if our productive fabric stops, the country stops. Several times I have spoken in this House to stress the importance of overcoming quickly and decisively the most acute phase of the pandemic, allowing our companies to return to running and driving the economy. Especially with the previous Conte Government, we have managed to put in place a system that would guarantee businesses, workers and professionals refreshments in a short time; but we were and are aware that the best subsidy that the State can give to the entire productive fabric is above all to guarantee the best possible conditions to promote the growth and continuity of the enterprises and to promote the birth of new ones. In spring 2020, during the most acute phase of the pandemic, we never abandoned our productive fabric. With the so-called Italian Cura decree first and with the liquidity decree then, we put in place an imposing mechanism to give our companies the necessary support, a mechanism that was then oiled and developed for all the months of the pandemic. With the guarantee fund for small and medium-sized enterprises and especially with the Transition 4.0 plan, we have raised the level. We have been repeating this for a long time: helping companies that decide to invest, first of all on themselves, must always be a priority and for us in Movimento 5 Stars this principle has always represented a polar star of our political action, with good peace of those who for years have branded us, in a reckless way, as an anti-business political force. Not only that: for the tax credits of Transition 4.0, we are convinced that we must think as soon as possible about the opportunity to make them transferable, so as to give our companies a further injection of liquidity and encourage substantial investments. In short, a superbonus companies, in the wake of the huge beneficial effects that is having for the building industry the superbonus at 110 percent. To this extent, many originally had raised doubts and doubts, but the numbers tell us that the insistence of the Movimento 5 Stars had and has its reason to be. Just yesterday, the National Council of Engineers, studying the trends of the first nine months of the year, estimated, by the end of the year, spending commitments of 9.5 billion, with an added value of more than 19 billion and effects on GDP of 12 billion. The most interesting estimate concerns, however, the new jobs: 153,000, between indirect and direct. If we think about the conditions under which the entire supply chain was only two years ago, it would be said that the superbonus allowed an entire segment of our economy to rise again. For this reason we insist so much on the extension of the incentive, perhaps with a multi-annual horizon and not only until the whole 2023, as the Italian engineers asked yesterday. The state must therefore follow and accompany the whole life of the companies, supporting them in the moments of greater prosperity, with the aim of facilitating their investments and expansion, but also and especially in the moments of physiological economic decline. The measure is based on the latter requirement by introducing incentives for firms to restructure or restore businesses. First, the entry into force of the Corporate Crisis Code is further delayed until May 2022. The full-bodied news was designed to renew the order in 2019, in a context that could not take into account the devastating effects of the pandemic. It is therefore necessary to give due consideration to this reform action, in the light of the new needs which have arisen in recent months, and especially because of the effects which will also remain at the end of the pandemic. However, in the medium term, we have already decided to transpose into the current regulatory framework provided for by the so-called bankruptcy law, some provisions contained within the corporate crisis code, such as the rules on extended effective restructuring agreements, Article 182-f, which will apply to all categories of creditors, eliminating the previously existing limitation to creditors and financial intermediaries only. The decree-law also provides for the amendment of the rules of the Convention in moratorium (new Article 182-opties), extended to all categories of creditors. It also provides for the institution of the concessionary restructuring agreements (Article 182-novies), which allows the conclusion of a debt restructuring agreement with a threshold of half of the participating creditors, of 30% instead of 60%. The decree-law also aims to support companies in crisis and to promote corporate consolidation. In this direction, the new Institute of Negotiated Composition for the Solution of the Business Crisis has been introduced. In short, as of 15 November next, entrepreneurs who will find themselves in a position of financial or asset imbalance and therefore risk a crisis or become insolvent, in order to start profitable business consolidation will be able to ask the Secretary-General of the Chamber of Commerce of reference for the appointment of an independent expert. This subject will have the task of facilitating the negotiations between all the parties involved (entrepreneur, creditors and any other interested parties), with the objective of finding a solution to overcome the state of crisis. At the end of the negotiated settlement procedure, important premium measures are also envisaged for the company, such as the reduction of interest on tax debts, the reduction to a minimum of sanctions and the possibility of obtaining a plan for the repayment of the sums due. Finally, but not in order of importance, I have the pleasure to point out also the rule introduced during the examination to the Commissions reunited 2a and 10a, which authorizes a new ban for the recruitment of 500 ordinary magistrates, to be carried out in ways that guarantee the speedy conclusion of the selective procedure, paying maximum attention to the evaluation of the most deserving candidates. I always think it is good when we are debating issues of great interest to our companies in this House, even if they are of high technical complexity. Encouraging data on economic recovery must push us to do even more. As I said before, the impact that the 110% superbonus has managed to give to the entire building industry must be a virtuous example to be constantly referred to, in order to convince the entire Parliamentary House of the now indisputable importance of focusing on highly incentive measures also in other sectors, which are able to promote the economic growth of companies and therefore of the whole country, because, as I have just said, if companies start again, Italy starts again. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-366.ana.u29	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-366.ana.u30	I call the rapporteur, Senator Modena.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-366.ana.u31	Mr President, I have listened carefully to my colleagues who have confirmed the work that has been done, together with the Secretary of State Sisto, whom I see, and to Secretary Bini. We want to thank them for the support that has been given. (The sitting was suspended at 6.20 p.m.) (The sitting was suspended at 6.20 p.m. and resumed at 6.20 p.m.) It was a technically very complicated measure, committed several ministries, but tried to find a point of fall. It is true that it is a bet and the Members who have highlighted these aspects are right, but this is actually the role we are playing today, because we are putting in place a series of measures which, of course, are also the result of the choice that Parliament has made to try to offer very broad shoulders to the country, considering the period we are going through. My colleagues have pointed out some aspects that I would like to reiterate: it is true - I believe that Mr Urraro has dedicated a passage to it - that some content of the decree-law also serves to give justice resources for digitisation and efficiency. This is also a peculiarity that had not been seen in the past, in addition to the question of the magistrates we have already talked about. Certainly, as far as the evaluation of the results is concerned, colleagues have said so and as the rapporteur, Mr Collina, has said very clearly in his report, the crisis and insolvency code awaits us: that will be the time when we will see whether the results will be there or not. I wanted to reply to Mr Bertoldi, but I do not see him in this House; I will have the opportunity to do so at another time. I therefore very much thank the Undersecretaries, the Members of the Commission and all the colleagues who have cooperated, particularly Senator Collina. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-366.ana.u32	I call the rapporteur, Senator Collina.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-366.ana.u33	Mr President, I too would like to join in thanking Senator Modena for the cooperation with which we have taken the measure forward, undersecretary Bini and undersecretary Sisto and colleagues from the Commissions meeting. I just want to add one point: during the hearings we held for the conversion of this decree-law we were able to record the awareness of all the associations of category, which expressed itself through a general and unanimous appreciation of the measure proposed by the Government, which we are going to approve in this branch of Parliament. This is important, because I believe that both professional groups and business associations will play an important role in giving positive development to the new negotiated settlement procedure, which is introduced by this measure. I believe that we must stress the climate of cooperation and proactivity that we have experienced at a time like this when responsibility belongs to all, in order to try to face the economic recovery in this phase of exit from the pandemic, where there are still so many contradictions.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-366.ana.u34	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-366.ana.u35	Mr President, I speak not only for due and timely thanks - which for once is not stylish, but also for the commitment of the rapporteurs and of all Members of the Commission - but to reiterate that this measure is part of a new deal of the choices of the relationship between State and business, between procedures and experiences, because in reality we are progressively coining, with a synergistic effort, no longer a right of the enterprise, but a right for the enterprise. The attempt is to reason in a different way, because the enterprise today is no longer an object of verification tout court, but it is an important point of reference for the restart: in this logic, the measure under consideration is placed in perfect assonometry both with the reform of the criminal process, and with the reform of the civil process, in which the premiere institutions certainly have to deal with a past that is not that it is repudiated, but is reread in a realistic consideration of the moment we are living. It therefore seems to me that this measure is another important component, which constitutes for this Government the effective recognition of how one can start a country with one word: reconciliation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-366.ana.u36	He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Mr D'Incà. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-366.ana.u37	Madam President, the Government submits to the Presidency, pursuant to Rule 161 (3) - 3b of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, the text of an amendment which fully transposes the amending proposals approved by the Joint Commissions, entirely replacing Article 1 of the draft law of conversion of the decree-law in question, on which, subject to the permission of the Council of Ministers, it intends to raise the question of trust.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-366.ana.u38	In accordance with Rule 161 (3) (b) of the Rules of Procedure, the Presidency assessed the text of the amendment in accordance with Rules 8 and 97 of the Rules of Procedure and therefore forwarded it to the 5th Commission. In accordance with Article 102-a, the Budget Commission shall be authorised to convene. He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament again, Mr D'Incà. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-366.ana.u39	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I raise the question of confidence in the adoption of the amendment fully replacing the single article of draft law No 2371, which was converted into law by Decree-Law No 118 of 24 August 2021. [[Comments. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-366.ana.u40	As already established and agreed by the Conference of Leaders, explanations of vote will take place tomorrow morning. [[Repented comments.]] Senator, I would like to remind you that we are in the Senate Chamber: you may of course disagree, but you cannot speak directly in these tones.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-366.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-366.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-366.ana.u43	LEONE (M5S). Mr President, this summer I took part in a series of cultural events on legality. That is where the urge to speak in this House of Attilio Misses, an unsolved case, on which opacity remains. Attilio Manca was a young urologist from Barcelona Pozzo di Gotto, with a brilliant career ahead, therefore linked to the prostate of a mob boss, Bernardo Provenzano, and therefore murdered back in 2004. What fault did our Attilio have, if not that of being originally from Barcelona in Sicily and having as cousin Ugo Manca, very friend of Angelo Porcino, Mafia exponent of Barcelona, a place of capital importance in the Mafia geopolitics of the eighties until the early years of 2000? It is to be thanked for the protection of family members, of the mother, Angela Gentile, and of lawyer Fabio Repici, who so beautifully carried out the search for the truth about the crime of Attilio. It is a crime that has all the characteristics of the mob, first of all to muddle the memory of Attilio, wanting to give the image of an addict, clumsily victim of an overdose of heroin: he, who was an enemy of drugs; he, whose working colleagues had never noticed holes in the arms or signs of drug withdrawal, where his childhood friends, Sicilians, reported that he had a certain frequency with drugs. I remember, therefore: Barcelona Pozzo di Gotto, a country with a high mafia density, against the idea of his medical colleagues from Viterbo, with whom he worked side by side. There are too many opacityes in the suicide-murder of Attilio Misses: once clarified, they would give us a more realistic image of our society and the state of health of our democracy. The assassination of Attilio would give us elements of knowledge about the negotiation of the State-Mafia, which has always, at least since the birth of our Republic, characterized our national history and the anomalous history of what happened, starting from the massacre of Portella della Ginestra, up to those of Via Fani, with the murder of Moro, Capaci and Via D'Amelio. In the case of Attilio Missa I like to look with the eyes of a mother, those of Angela Gentile, an inconsolable mother, who in a chat told me that it is a legal truth that is late to arrive, but she demands justice. It is gruesome to hear her say that she has also been deprived of the care of the home garden, because they poisoned her plants. This is what emerged from the analysis on the ground: plants poisoned by an out-of-trade herbicide (Roundup). Why then the then president of the Republic of Naples called the proxy of Viterbo - which emerged during the press conference in Viterbo of Petroselli and Patients, visible on YouTube - to know about this boy, Attilio Missa? All this leaves bitter in the mouth, but forces me to talk about it. I conclude by pointing out that the Anti-Mafia Committee of Inquiry has approved in the Bureau the hearing of justice collaborators Carmelo D'Amico, Biagio Grasso and Stefano Lo Verso, precisely in order to shed light on the death of Attilio. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-366.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-366.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-366.ana.u46	TRENTACOSTE (M5S). Mr President, the resounding rejection of the projects submitted by the Sicilian Region to the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy in the framework of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan cannot go unnoticed. None of the 31 projects aimed at improving the management of water resources for irrigation purposes (for EUR 422 million) were eligible for technical reasons. The projects submitted by the Region, in fact, did not meet some of the 23 criteria established by the European Union, which instead had to be met. Even one of the projects submitted had already been financed, while 17 provide for a duration of intervention and execution of the works over thirty months, a maximum limit imposed by the same PNRR. We are talking about criteria that the Italian Regions knew well, since months ago the Government had shared with them the eligibility parameters and had also activated a technical assistance service to provide clarification and avoid material errors. The responsibility for this rejection is therefore of the Sicilian Region and, like many Sicilians, I, too, was disconcerted by such an unjustifiable error. For years, in fact, we have been told that the economic resources needed to carry out projects for the modernisation of water networks were lacking. Now, instead, we have the demonstration that the Region is deprived of programs of intervention and effective action to quickly resolve the age-old problem of water. Now we must urgently find a solution so that Sicily does not lose this funding, with the contribution of everyone and without controversy, selecting the projects that are suitable for corrections, modifications or remodulations, agreeing the interventions with the technical bodies of the Ministry and sharing the result with Minister Patuanelli, who will meet tomorrow the regional council member to agriculture Scilla. In this regard, he spoke to the House, the Minister pointed out that Sicily would not be left alone. In the PNRR, in fact, there are 880 million in support of the agricultural system for water for irrigation use, while a further 440 million are foreseen by the budget law and not subject to the timing of the Plan. A few days ago Professor Andrea Guerrini, member of the ARERA college, well photographed the moment. The most urgent challenge is in the South: a determined action by the legislator is needed to resolve failures in the creation of the bodies of the field that affect the water service and the facilities to the users. Colleagues, we must be ready to face the challenges that this time imposes on us and we cannot afford failures like that accomplished by the Sicilian Region. This is the time for politics and the right decisions. Sicily cannot miss other important opportunities for development: it would be unforgivable. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-366.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-366.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-366.ana.u49	Drago (FdI). (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is these days - and it is pointed out from many quarters - that there is a need to intervene in favour of the precarious teaching staff included in the provincial rankings for supplements (GPS) and in the run-up rankings (Gae), which would be penalised in the conferral of supplements as the provincial territorial areas and regional school offices would be affected by many errors. The computerised procedure used for the attribution and evaluation of precarious staff scores would have generated a series of inaccuracies, resulting in penalties. Rome would be the city most affected by this abuse. This problem would have caused to date, only in Lazio, the absence of about 3,600 teachers of every order and grade. In some regions, the algorithm returned by recovering some candidates excluded from the first round, following the slide of the ranking randomly and in other cases not. The computer system developed by the Ministry would therefore not have followed a valid and correct procedure, not considering the score possessed by every aspiring teacher in the ranking. There would be very few teachers in Gae identified both in the first and in the second bulletin nominations; they would have been identified in both teacher bulletins with very low scores and positions, at the expense of others with more favorable scores and positions. Teachers on classes of competition not appropriate to them would have been identified; many would be considered as renunciations, despite the schools chosen in the application phase and despite having communicated the places of the provincial territory, which would now even blame themselves for the error. Many teachers who would have made a complaint against the first bulletin would not have been answered to date, and were once again excluded. The algorithm would resume to summon the last appointed of the first bulletin and would bring no less senior students into the chair. There would be a lack of recognition of reserve securities and a lack of appointment on supporting chairs. There would also be the conferral of chairs on the premises not indicated in the application, not respecting the ranking of the places indicated, for the benefit of another aspiring worse graduated. This dramatic situation is jeopardising the ordinary conduct of curricula activities, with inevitable repercussions on student learning. In the current and persistent emerging pandemic situation, school institutions are among the most involved for a serene return to normality in favor of all students. Looking at what would be happening could in fact ensure that schools have a more appropriate organisation and better functioning. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-366.ana.u50	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-10-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-366.ana.u51	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 13 October, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.39.
