ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. MARGIOTTA, secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2483, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Pellegrini Marco, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u5	Mr President, as you mentioned, today we are examining the bill of conversion into law of Decree-Law No 152 of 6 November 2021 laying down urgent provisions for the implementation of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan and for the prevention of mafia infiltrations, which was approved at first reading by the House of Deputies. The decree-law was initially composed of 51 articles and, following the changes introduced by the Chamber of Deputies, is now contained 96 articles divided into four Titles. Title I, composed of Articles 1 to 15, contains urgent measures aimed at achieving the PNRR objectives for 2021 and consists of six Heads. Chapter I, from Article 1 to Article 4, lays down provisions on tourism. Article 1 gives companies in the tourist, receptive, fair and congress sector a tax credit and a non-refundable contribution. Article 2, on the other hand, using the funds provided for by the PNRR, establishes within the guarantee fund for small and medium-sized enterprises a special tourism section for the granting of guarantees to hotel companies, agritourism structures, accommodation facilities in the open air, companies in the tourism sector, trade fairs and congresses, including bathing establishments, thermal baths, marinas and theme parks. Article 3 provides for contributions to expenditure on energy redevelopment, environmental sustainability and digital innovation, while Article 3-a amends the refinancing arrangements for the tourism fund. Article 4 gives travel agencies and tour operators a tax credit of 50% of the costs incurred for investments and digital development activities. Chapter II, which ranges from Article 5 to Article 6c, lays down provisions on railway infrastructure, judicial construction and public works. Article 5 amends the procedures for approving the programme contract between the Ministry of Sustainable Infrastructure and Mobility and RFI (Italian Railway Network). Article 6 lays down rules to speed up the implementation of railway infrastructure and provides for measures in the field of judicial construction. Article 6a introduces provisions to promote maximum participation in calls for allocation of resources for public works. Article 6b rewrites the framework on the effects of the publication of notices relating to negotiated investment procedures financed from the resources provided for by the PNRR, the NCP and programmes co-financed by the Structural Funds of the European Union. Article 6c concerns the remuneration of technical advisory colleges of contracting stations. Chapter III, which is composed of Article 7 alone, lays down provisions on technological innovation and digital transition. Chapter IV, which ranges from Articles 8 to 10-a, lays down provisions on parliamentary expenditure and control procedures. Article 9 points out that the rules aimed at strengthening Parliament's supervisory role - I think it is important to stress this - in the process of implementing and evaluating the expenditure of the PNRR. Chapter V lays down provisions on special economic zones (SEZs), providing in Article 11 the digital one-stop shop for the presentation of projects for new activities in the special economic zones, as well as procedural simplifications for the settlement of disputes in cases of opposition by the administrations concerned at the Conference of Services. Chapter VI, which ranges from Article 12 to 15, lays down provisions on universities and research. Article 12, in particular, simplifies the eligibility requirements for access by university students and institutions of high artistic, musical and coreautic training (AFAM), while Article 13 authorises the Ministry of University and Research to acquire, through the activation of the conventions provided for by the strategic ICT competitions program of Consip, professional technical assistance services for digital transformation, data management, the definition of strategies and solutions for the cloud and for cybersecurity. Article 14 stipulates, in implementation of the objectives set out by the PNRR, that part of the university education credits may be reserved for related or supplementary activities, in any case related to scientific-disciplinary fields or to disciplinary areas not foreseen for basic activities or activities characterising the course of studies. Article 15 deals with the rules on housing and residences for university students, with the aim of simplifying procedures and promoting compliance with high environmental standards. Title II, composed of articles ranging from 16 to 40, contains further urgent measures aimed at achieving the objectives of the PNRR and consists of five Heads. Chapter I, from Articles 16 to 19-b, said environmental provisions. In particular, Article 16 contains a number of rules on water resources, while Article 16- bis extends for two years the provision of integrated water services to the Apulian Aqueduct Company SpA. Article 16-b provides for a framework to accompany the opening of the market for domestic customers with regard to the supply of electricity. Article 17 provides for the adoption by the Ministry of the ecological transition of an action plan for the redevelopment of orphan polluting sites, implementing the PNRR forecasts. Article 17- bis provides for the issuing of decrees of the Minister of the ecological transition for the reconnaissance and re-perimetration of contaminated and currently classified sites of national interest (SIN). Article 18 provides for a series of amendments to the Environmental Assessment Framework (VAS). Article 18-a introduces amendments to the Single Extraordinary Commissioner's rules for the design, custody and implementation of the measures necessary for the adaptation of collection, sewering and purification systems. Article 19 lays down provisions on the obligations of producers with regard to the end-of-life management of photovoltaic plants, while Article 19-a amends the rules on renewable energy plants, which receive higher incentives (green certificates, comprehensive tariffs and premium tariffs). Article 19-b regulates administrative penalties for breaching the obligation of traders and traders to accept payments with debit or credit cards, stating that the penalty is applicable in the event of refusal of payment of any amount. Chapter II, which deals with Articles 20 to 23, lays down provisions on energy efficiency, urban regeneration, sustainable mobility, security of buildings and land and territorial cohesion. In particular, Article 20 introduces rules on the allocation of state contributions to municipalities in the fields of energy efficiency, sustainable mobility, urban regeneration, security and exploitation of the territory. Article 20-a lays down rules aimed at simplifying and speeding up interventions for the reconstruction and recovery of the territories affected by the earthquakes of 2009 occurred in Abruzzo. Article 21 provides for the allocation of resources to metropolitan cities, while Article 22 regulates the allocation of resources provided for by the PNRR for the implementation of new public interventions to address flood risk and hydrogeological risk. Article 23 also allows the use of the resources of the Development and Cohesion Fund of the 2021-2027 programming cycle for the completion of the ongoing actions foreseen in the previous 2014-2020 programming. Chapter III of Title II, said provisions on innovative schools, projects of major national interest and mobility of university teachers. Article 24 entrusts the Ministry of Education with the task of issuing a design competition for the construction of innovative schools from an architectural and structural point of view, while the 24-a stipulates that from the year 2025-2026 in schools of all order and degree the development of digital skills will continue. Article 25 provides for the possibility of allocating resources for the financing in 2021 of the new programme for the development of projects of major national interest to the sliding of the PRIN 2020 rankings. Article 25a lays down provisions on the research activities carried out by publicly owned companies and public research bodies for the implementation of the actions included in the implementation of the PNRR. Mr President, since I have reached just under half, I would like to submit the text of the report, so that it can be annexed to the report of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u6	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. He's enlisted to speak Senator Mautone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic has claimed more than 5.5 million victims worldwide, causing mourning, suffering and fear. The very serious crisis that has accompanied the unstoppable going on and the rapid spread of the virus has made difficult, extreme and even unpopular choices indispensable, but that, while waiting for the vaccination campaign to take off and represent an embankment to the spread of the virus and an anchor of salvation to entrust our lives, have allowed us to get to this point. The choices made by the Government Count II, first, and then confirmed by the Government Draghi, which further strengthened and modulated them in relation to the variation of epidemiological conditions, have made Italy one of the points - if not the point - of reference for other European countries that, although starting from different positions, have adopted measures and measures similar to those taken by Italy. Europe's enormous economic effort, with the rain of billions of euros that each Member State has received, presupposed the development of strategic planning plans that would allow, at first, to cope with and resist the global crisis caused by the pandemic and, subsequently, allow recovery and a real step forward. The huge funds obtained by the European Union by President Conte constitute the indispensable financial basis that supports the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, with its projects and missions, which will have to allow our country, after the emerging phase, to resume, as we all hope, a global growth not only of economic activities and employment, but also allow a radical change of our structure and technological modernization and infrastructure. Furthermore, we must not forget the importance of implementing active policies, cohesion and inclusion, as provided for in the various missions of the PNRR: the green revolution and ecological transition, the digital transition and the reorganisation of our health service. It is essential and essential that the time schedule provided for by the PNRR is respected in time and mode. The various projects that relate to the six missions of the Plan are destined - in intentions and, hopefully, in their realization - to contribute to that radical change and to that step forward of our Country that allow Italy to align, not in words, but in fact, to the European leading countries. It is an important moment, involving all aspects, activities and delicate balances of our community, allowing its gradual but profound modernisation. Mr President, we must not forget, among the missions planned, the attention shown to planned investments in support for fragile and vulnerable people, as well as the elderly who are not self-sufficient. It is from this point of view and within the framework of these projects that the delegation law on disability passed a few days ago in this House, aimed at strengthening the autonomy of disabled people and their social and employment integration. The planned reorganisation of health care will involve, on the one hand, the strengthening of territorial medicine (with integration between health and social services and the establishment of community homes and hospitals) and, on the other hand, plans for the reorganization and modernisation of the hospital's technological and digital park and the planned construction of new health facilities. In addition, Mr President, I would like to stress, again in the context of health projects, two very distinctive and highly prospective elements introduced by the House of Members: the adoption of the modalities for the establishment of the Molecular Tumor Board (MTB) in the framework of regional cancer networks and the identification of specialist centres for the execution of extensive genomic tests (Next Generation Sequencing-NGS). Both will play a key role in oncology and their therapeutic approach. Fundamental to the respect of the schedule foreseen by the PNRR is the presence of the central direction cabin, with tasks of supervision, direction, impulse and general coordination in the implementation of the planned actions, as well as periodic and punctual reconnaissances on the state of implementation of the projects, on their effectiveness and their impact with respect to the objectives pursued. In a nutshell, Mr President, it must be able to play a controlling role in ensuring that the funds provided are spent well, in the interests of citizens and communities, and to ensure that this huge flow of public money follows correctly the channels envisaged and that it cannot recall the appetites ever satisfied by malavitous, mafiose or camorristic organizations that they are. If these unfortunate incidents occur, it is necessary to counter them, fight them firmly and decisively and strongly reaffirm the presence of the State. We must run, make an additional effort, but do things well, in the interests of the community and not of individuals or lobbyists, by recovering targets and targets, even those that are currently lagging behind. In conclusion, Mr President, Parliament's involvement is fundamental in this path of growth and planning, recognizing its centrality, moreover, enshrined in our Constitution. The Movimento 5 Stars is, will be vigilant, a constructive controller, active, attentive to the correct implementation of the PNRR. We owe it out of respect for all citizens and, allow me, Mr President, as I remember and heard of the tens of thousands of victims of the pandemic. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u8	She is registered to speak Senator Tiraboschi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, there would be a lot to say about the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. I will confine myself to making some reflections, trying to contextualize it within the political dynamics of the last twenty-four hours, then trying to make some other technical-political considerations on the tourism sector and digitalization. Premier Draghi, when presenting the Plan to this Assembly, said that Italy with it should combine imagination, design capacity and pragmatism. This is in order to be able to deliver to future generations, a much more modern country within a European context, which must count more on a global level and which must be much stronger and more supportive. The brief description of this Plan by the Prime Minister makes it clear that it is the historic opportunity for our country to overcome a series of indicators that characterized the first twenty years of the 21st century, which I will then go to illustrate shortly and that, in my opinion, we should all have very clear in our minds. These are indicators that we absolutely cannot forget in economic and social terms and from which we must start to determine the conditions for growth and development of this century. What the Premier said yesterday, at the end of the year press conference, caused some confusion. To say that everything the Government has done so far is more than enough to create the conditions to implement this Plan in our personal opinion - I think I can speak on behalf of my colleagues in Forza Italia - is not convincing enough. Of course, much has been done in terms of vaccinations, deadlines have been respected to deliver the Plan, Italy has grown more than forecast (we are at 6% of GDP growth), but all this is absolutely not enough. Moreover, the Premier himself said that people are important. I would say that people make a difference, make the success or failure of a particular project. So, to go back to talking about the Plan, we believe that Premier Draghi must actually work to bring it down. It is clear that he alone is not enough, but we need a great deal of consultation from all the institutions: I am referring to the government, Parliament, the regions and all the local authorities. We need institutional consultation which is certainly very complex, but which must be carried out absolutely because of the ambitious content of this Plan, in order to give it concrete implementation and therefore to give - and I quote the words I said at the beginning - to future generations a completely different country. The Plan is definitely something more complex than any international event, be it an Olympiad or an Expo; I say it because I recently heard Mayor Sala say that Milan must give a signal at national level and must do something extremely important, exactly as it did at the Expo 2015. Let me say that the Expo, as well as the Olympics that will be in Cortina in a few years' time, is something completely different from the Recovery and Resilience Plan. The Plan must return to the logic of programming (if we do not want to use the term "planification" that is perhaps a bit strong and of a Bolshevik nature) and we must return to programming, exactly as we did in the sixties, when programming constituted the novelty in the management of the State. Today this programming would allow us to go beyond certain numbers, which I would like to recall: between 1999 and 2019, Italy's GDP grew by 7.9% and, in the same period, in Germany, France and Spain, the increase was about 30, 32 and 44 percent respectively. The number of people below the poverty line between 2005 and 2019 rose from 3.5% to 7.7%, to 9.4% in 2020. The number of young NEETs in Italy, those who do not study and are not employed, is significantly higher than the European average; in the same way, the number of women actively participating in the world of work is significantly lower than the European average. Finally, productivity, i.e. GDP per hour worked, grew by 4.2 percent in Italy between 1999 and 2019, compared with around 21% in Germany and France. Among the causes of these indicators, which are dramatic and which I believe we should all have very clear in our head, to tell us what happened in the first twenty years of this 21st century and to be truly convinced that it takes strong discontinuity from now on, we must surely remember the fact that the digital revolution has not been understood by the industrial policy of this country, as well as the characteristic of the Italian productive fabric, so-called dwarfism, that is, small-medium enterprises and micro-small and medium-sized enterprises, which are also the backbone of our country and to which this digital revolution must pay great attention. So what are we gonna do with this plan? We must set up a new industrial policy, where the state's presence becomes central, not only to revive the economy, but also to manage the so-called patient capitals, those of the medium to long term, those for which - it is said - the payback, the return is absolutely not conceivable can be accepted by private capitalists. The PNRR must be regarded - in order to reuse the words of President Draghi - as an extraordinary lever that attracts private capital into a virtuous public-private partnership that relaunches our economy. If this were not the case, Italy would lose the historic opportunity of this century and the growth of our country's development compared to that of other European countries would become so large that it would lead us to a position of isolation. We can say today that, after the pandemic, we are all at the starting line and from here the race begins, that we do not start with a penalty because we know that the European Commission has given a positive opinion on the draft budget law for 2022. But this is not enough. We must be absolutely convincing to the European countries and make them understand that we have the capacity to bring this Plan down to the ground. I'm going to the last consideration, the one on tourism. I hope that Mr Garavaglia, whom we have also convened in the 10th Commission, will explain to us precisely why digitisation will play an extremely important role on tourism, what is this national tourism hub? I hope it is a node of the digital ecosystem around which both demand and supply are actually brought to a system, clearly starting from a clustered demand analysis and ensuring that supply gives the answers to this question to make a significant contribution in terms of growth of GDP in the sector. On that sector, which is not only tourism but is also the best of Made in Italy, I think that our country can make significant growth points of GDP, those that have not been there in the first twenty years, despite the sector did not suffer, as many can see looking at numbers. However, there is an unexpressed potential that must absolutely emerge and can be exploited through this way of making industrial policy, which is a reference for the tourism sector. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u10	Senator Ripamonti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u11	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, since I see the Secretary of State for War, whom I greet, I take a minute to talk about something that has nothing to do with the PNRR and to say that the amendment to the DEF on the Savona cable cars, which you, Subsecretary, had told me was not feasible, as by magic passed, exactly the same, in the draft budget law. I therefore give you this good news. [[Applause]] We are talking about PNRR and tourism, this sector of the huge encyclopedia that is the PNRR - as Senator Mollame rightly called it - because it deals with many things. I will try to talk about tourism, which is the area of competence of the Commission to which I belong. We are talking about 2.4 billion euros of total value, within which there are numerous points and, indeed, a lot of money. First of all, grants and tax credits for tourist enterprises, for the improvement of accommodation infrastructures through a whole series of measures for hotels, accommodation, open air businesses, agritourisms, tourist-recreational enterprises, bathing establishments, thermal baths, marinas, theme parks, trade fairs and congresses. What is the focus of this kind of measure in particular? On energy efficiency, the elimination of architectural barriers, building interventions, interventions for the construction of thermal pools and purchase of equipment functional to thermal pools, the digitalization of the sector. A total of EUR 500 million is earmarked for this measure. Moreover, it was placed in the Chamber during the first reading - now only one reading is done so today we note that the House has done a good job - a fund of 10 million euros lost for those companies in the catering sector that so much have been in difficulty in this pandemic period. There are also guarantees on the financing of the tourism sector, a guarantee fund for small and medium-sized enterprises; think that - at last, I would like to say - there is a special section for tourism, for the granting of guarantees to hotel, accommodation (the former), bathing establishments, etc. EUR 385 million are allocated to the implementation of the measures at this stage. Also in the House, an amendment of the League was approved which provides for the agritourism sector that guarantees are granted to persons aged between 18 and 40 years. There is a revolving fund for enterprises with 180 million and, in particular, an increase is expected, which is also available to the House, of an additional 100 million for the tourism fund. There is a tax credit for another sector in the sector that is very difficult, that of tour operators, for the costs incurred in relation to investments in digital development activities. I would now like to make a few comments, Mr President. Meanwhile, it is good news that the Ministry of Tourism exists, which is no longer one of which, of something else or someone else, but a Dicastery with its dignity: finally someone can beat the punches on the table of the Council of Ministers to say that there is a sector that makes 13 points of GDP that is called tourism, within which there are enterprises that are part of this fundamental fabric of our country, that are small and medium-sized enterprises. As I said before, finally seeing the establishment of a special section for tourism, for those who have been involved in tourism for a lifetime and come from a family that has worked in this area for a lifetime is something that fills the heart, gives confidence and hope - indeed, I would say optimism - because I do not know if talking about hope at this time brings so much good, in reality. With this in mind, the resources of the PNRR are crucial. At last there is an idea, Mr President, a vision, a project, something, a beginning; of course, we are in the early stages, but with this measure we want to allow this sector to be more of quality, more efficient, more competitive, more accessible and, above all, more experiential. When a tourist comes to Italy he expects to have a real experience, he wants to spend his holidays perhaps by the sea, in the mountains or in our cities of art or make the path of our small villages, that myriad of fantastic places full of culture and tradition that are our small towns. In this way they can discover our Made in Italy, as Senator Tiraboschi said before, everything that really is our excellence, perhaps expertly described by the professionalism always fantastic of our tourist guides. Mr President, I believe that never before, in the light of the pandemic and all the difficulties that the sector has had to contend with, the measures adopted in this decree-law are fundamental. Mr President, in the final part of my speech, I should like to make two comments and to speak about two things that are very dear to me. As was said, all the work that has been carried out so far and probably what will take place subsequently is fundamental for the survival of this sector, which has really suffered an almost deadly blow. Who, like me, comes from a family of traders can only try to urge this Government to really increase its efforts for trade, especially for small shops, small restaurants, for those who for three hundred and sixty-five days a year, with every climate, with every adversity and - I must say - with every pandemic, keep alive a social fabric made of services. In fact, where there is no small business or a small restaurant, there is not even the hotel functional to that situation, at that time and to that community. There would therefore be no small municipalities, no neighborhoods and no cities, and the habit of going to the restaurant or to our trusted trader would fail. I wouldn't want everything to turn into a click, which seems like the worst thing that can happen to us. I conclude with a reflection that is very close to my heart, on what is happening to the 30,000 Italian bathing companies. A decision of the Council of State puts this sector in a situation of extreme uncertainty for the future. This judgment, in my humble opinion, goes a little further than a mere legal judgment. Politics, which has been repeatedly called upon to assume its responsibilities - I would like to point out that so many governments have succeeded, since the seaside issue was raised - has actually done so, with Law No 145 of 2018, which drew a path, agreed with Europe, that would secure those 30,000 businesses and their families. The policy is now called upon to give an answer in this respect and the answer, Mr President, can only be one: to compensate for the carelessness of the past two years, in which there has been no follow-up to Law No. 145, which really follows this measure. This law was in fact well written and was, in fact, agreed with Europe. This is in order to take up our role as legislators, without handing it over to the judges and finding the courage to do what we are called upon to do, namely the laws and rules. [[Recalls of the President]] Mr President, I should like to end by thanking Minister Garavaglia, because on 28 he will meet all the professional associations, so that we can really define a functional path, so that our beach businesses can have a future, as we wrote in Law No 145 of 2018. I therefore hope that, at the meeting of 28, all the associations will speak with one voice, saying that the law is there and that it is necessary to follow you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u12	She is registered to speak Senator L'Abbate. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, this measure is fundamental to the implementation of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, which is not only the national plan of this Government, but it is the plan to relaunch the whole of our country and it is therefore up to all of us - politicians, officials, entrepreneurs and social partners - to contribute to its proper implementation, quickly and efficiently. I speak of speed, because it is necessary: we know that we have only five years to invest in Italy EUR 191.5 billion and we have to invest them in the right way, with projects that are sustainable. These funds will therefore serve to reduce territorial, generational and gender gaps and thus accelerate the transition, both digital and ecological, but also to improve school, to strengthen health, to profoundly reform the economy and that economic model that has probably so far failed, to revive productivity, to simplify bureaucracy, to promote innovation and to reduce unemployment and to give jobs to our young people, so that they may remain in Italy. In the measure under consideration there are several rules concerning the South and also my territory, Puglia, with environmental issues. I would like to mention, for example, Article 16-a, which extends the provision of the integrated water service to Aquedotto Puglia SpA by two years. This extension was introduced in order to complete the process of liquidation of the Authority for the development of irrigation and land transformation in Puglia, Lucania and Irpinia (EIPLI) and to accelerate the formation of the company referred to in Article 21, paragraph 11, of Decree-Law 6 December 2011, n. 201 (...) as well as to allow the use of the funds made available by the National Recovery and Resilience Plan within the defined deadlines and to prevent the effects of the emergency of the Covid-19 could affect the effectiveness of the procedures to be started for the custody of the integrated water service in the Puglia Region. Another important step forward was in Article 17, which concerns orphan sites. In this respect, I would like to recall the constant work done by our Minister, Mr Costa, on this particular point. [[Applause]] Moreover, in Puglia we know that we also have a number of particular problems with the sites of national interest (SIN) and it is important that Article 17- bis, precisely, provides for the enactment of decrees of the Ministry of the ecological transition for the reconnaissance and reperimetration of contaminated sites, currently classified as of national interest. It is therefore a very important rule, especially for Brindisi, where I recall that we discussed this issue a few months ago, which must be pursued as soon as possible. Article 19, on the other hand, concerns the end of life of photovoltaic plants. I have to say that in Italy we have a very flourishing and very cutting-edge recycling industry and ours is reconfirmed as one of the first countries at European level. Despite this, we have a small problem, precisely, for the chains of waste electrical and electronic equipment (WEEE) and also for end-of-life vehicles and batteries. In 2019, the separate collection of WEEE was 39 per cent compared to the input and consumption, a percentage far from that of 65% of the European target. The same applies to end-of-life vehicles, whose share of use and recycling, 85%, remains far from the 95 expected for the coming years. The main cause is the difficulty of handling certain components of vehicles, such as padding and seat coverings, which are assembled in such a way as to render recovery operations ineffective. In this sector as well as in this sector, it is therefore really necessary to make new projects in order to achieve our recycling targets. Article 20, which is also very important, deals with state contributions to municipalities. The latter are important to us, because we must improve the energy efficiency, urban regeneration, the security and enhancement of the territory, sustainable mobility and, in particular, the safety of our schools, municipal buildings and the municipal heritage, as well as the removal of architectural barriers. In this respect, I would remind you that already in 2020 an amount of EUR 497,22 million was allocated. Subsequently, this same figure will be allocated for the year 2021 until 2024. Article 21, in turn important, combines the problems of municipalities with support for smart cities. The National Recovery and Resilience Plan envisages revitalising and improving major degraded urban areas, with particular attention to the creation of new services for the person and the redevelopment of accessibility and intermodal infrastructure, with the aim of transforming vulnerable metropolitan areas into smart and sustainable cities. This is the future, in fact, as well as being an item on the agenda of the UN Sustainable Development Goals. Our urban centres must no longer be thought of as a conglomerate of individuals, but also as laboratories of technological innovation and sustainable development. Article 50 refers to the national strategic programme to combat climate change and improve air quality. Investment is therefore needed for the conversion of enterprises to sustainable production models and the promotion of the bioeconomy and the circular economy. We also have an article on how to improve the centrality of Parliament. Here it is right that I tell you that we, at parliamentary level, especially in this phase of examination of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, have certainly been very sacrificed, because we have not had the opportunity to work on the document. Realize that, for all that is contained in it, this is truly mortifying. We therefore hope that, in addition to the provision of an article on this subject in this document, next time Parliament will actually be in a position to work better. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u14	He's enlisted to speak Senator Stephen. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the decree-law that we are about to vote on today in this House is essential and useful to give a further and decisive boost to the reforms and investments of the PNRR. We are also close to the first verification deadline, which will be 31 December, but we can already say and feel relieved that we have achieved the 51 objectives that we set ourselves, as President Draghi wanted to clarify yesterday. At the resumption, in January, right here in the Senate will open the phase of the verification, to understand how it has reached these objectives and how the extraordinary commitment of these months has allowed Italy to be among the first European countries in terms of growth and that they realize more, and to assert itself perhaps as the most important interlocutor in these months at European level. Today's decree deals with the implementation of the PNRR, since it contains several important measures, which touch on various themes and sectors. Some colleagues before me have rightly mentioned tourism, which is an architrave of this country's model of development. There are important measures, which also affect the acceleration of environmental initiatives, energy efficiency and regeneration. The decree is certainly important, but I would be a liar, if I hid the bitterness of not having had the chance to reason a little more here in the Senate. The time is - alas - tightening and we have shown that the Italian legislator is anything but inert. In the coming weeks, our contribution will be to check in concrete terms the implementation of the PNRR, to measure the rate of achievement of the objectives, because - I want to focus on this issue today, sharing some reflections with you, colleagues, and with the Government - the PNRR is something more than traditional financing; it is something different than the instruments we have been dealing with in the last two decades. It is the first tool of common fiscal policies through which specific quantifiable results are achieved - or must be achieved - which will be measured by the European Commission, and only when the progressive targets are successfully achieved will the subsequent instalments be made available. It is an important change of mind, because not only does Europe collect resources and redistribute them, but it shows us the goals to be achieved and commits us to covering them. I want to say something that perhaps holds me in a different position than some claims, because I believe that national direction is an important fact in this instrument. I am saying this in order to try to protest against the speech of some of my colleagues who I heard yesterday in this House. We were talking about the budget, but we also went to think about the PNRR. The national direction serves us to try to finally resolve a series of territorial gaps that condemn this country at a speed lower than its potential. The national direction we need, because it is over the time when we can say, as a citizen of the South, that we have to have education, mobility and health other than other territories of this same country. I believe that the national direction must help us achieve the goal of ensuring universal rights in the South as well as in the North, with the same standards and with the same possibilities to use them. I tell you that on this I will continue to fight with every energy, because it is over the time to imagine that, if in the South you can not rely on a health system up to the needs, it is the fault of the president of the Region of turn. I think that the state must go back to being a state and a civil state is the one that guarantees all citizens the same quality standards and the same opportunities to take advantage of the services. As far as I am concerned, I am very positive about the subject of national direction, which in this case is useful, provided that on some measures we will be able to give tools to participate in the implementation phase of the PNRR. There is no doubt that Minister Brunetta's efforts have so far produced results far below expectations and we have a whole series of measures through which we must aspire to make public administration more efficient even in the Mezzogiorno of Italy and digitization, from this point of view, opens us a huge space. We need to make available tools that allow local administrations to participate actively, because austerity policies and the blocking of recruitment in the last twenty years have deserted them and there are so many small municipalities that have difficulty participating in this implementation phase. Perhaps in this measure, Mr Undersecretary, there are still no decisive measures from this point of view, but we must find them. I believe that in successive regulatory instruments we will have to try to put in place measures that stimulate the aggregation of small municipalities to participate together in the implementation phase, otherwise the game risks being difficult, especially in some territories and in the internal areas. There is in fact now the vocation of the legislator, even in the implementation of financial instruments, to imagine that Italy is only a metropolitan city; unfortunately it is not so. Italy is the country of the small municipalities and we must try to keep in this great program of innovation of the country all the small communities, that must contribute; it must be an operation that allows us to make even the small communities more livable, interrupting the process of desertification. I'm gonna finish. We have an important appointment ahead of us. We managed, with a parliamentary battle, to also have the guarantee that a quantity of resources will go to the South. Some people have twisted their noses in relation to this subject, but I think it's a straightforward element. On the other hand, one of the issues was territorial differences, as well as gender and generational differences. The part that convinces me a lot about this is that it strengthens the role of parliamentary control, which we will exercise with every possible form and with every instrument, because we need to check in progress whether the objectives on which we have committed ourselves are progressively achieved and whether they open up a perspective to us. Let me conclude with this: for me, the PNRR is a change of approach. We need to come back to thinking with the prospect of the intervention programming its results from here to the next 20 years. We no longer have to imagine using appointments with economic programming such as those where we calculate resources in the last mile, with often dated projects and in the ministries' drawers. It is a challenge that we face and that we must all face together. However, I am convinced that, as a Parliament, we will be able to make a further contribution, as we have done by qualifying the plan that Brussels then wanted to approve; so, now we must try to help the Government so that this instrument is not a disappointment for the country system and not even a failure for the opening finally arrived from Europe. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Boccardi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, I am proud to speak today on such an important subject and therefore to do the baptism of my presence in Parliament. [[Applause]] with a reflection that I believe is necessary, before dealing with this subject. We know that the sensibilities present in the majority of Government are different, but I believe that everyone has the objective of the good of our Country Italy. It is a premise that I feel like making because the moment is so delicate that it requires a common awareness, a unity of intent that is most necessary and authoritatively represented always by the President of the Republic, Sergio Mattarella, especially in these days, who unfortunately see us very worried about the growth of contagions. Allow me to thank the Government for the EUR 150 million fund for supporting economic operators in tourism and events which, as you will surely remember, is certainly the sector most affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. I am sure that the action taken, precisely with the funds of the PNRR, will finally give back the role it deserves to a sector that, in my opinion and as my colleagues have previously mentioned, has extraordinary potential for the whole economy of our country. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, it is right to remember that there are still problematic situations, on which, in my opinion, no reflection is necessary. These uncertainties, if not corrected in time, risk jeopardising what is good in this budgetary manoeuvre, which we must approve tomorrow. I am referring to a ballast that weighs inexorably on Italian companies and constitutes a limit to their growth which is well known to both the Government and our Parliament. I am talking about the weight of loan instalments and other loans to which companies had access before the pandemic. I would like to remind you that before the pandemic, in 2019, many Italian companies realized by their own means, drawing mainly from loans and financing, large structural investments. Attention, ladies and gentlemen, here we are talking about virtuous enterprises, which perhaps in the darkest months of the pandemic, when the productive activities were stopped and the shutters were lowered, during the lockdown, have responsibly anticipated the Cassa Integrazione to their employees to compensate for the bureaucratic delays. What can we do? Here, it is necessary and urgent that the Government - I appeal here to the Undersecretary - intervene in the next economic measure in favour of the enterprises so that the moratorium of the installments of the mortgages in account capital is moved to 30 June 2022. As we know, Undersecretary, if we take away liquidity from companies, there can be no structural growth, investment and stable employment. I think we all want our companies to continue to hire and produce in Italy. What we all want is for Italy to remain permanently in the countries of the European Union with more growth, as it is now, leaving definitively behind the not too distant times when it was a taillight on reforms, GDP and employment. We want a prosperous and strong country and we can do so insofar as we are able to spend well and in due time the approximately 200 billion euros that will be provided by the European Union, from now on in 2026, for the PNRR, a plan that - unfortunately - the Senate parliamentary committees have not had time and a way to deepen to make improvements. They are resources that - we all know - will not be given to us regardless, but that will come to us as we use them effectively and efficiently and are conditioned by projects. A fundamental role will therefore be that of the territorial authorities, which will have to present the projects, and then be attributed relative responsibility for the work, their execution, testing and reporting of the expenditure for the concrete implementation. From here comes my concern - which I think is also yours and many Italians - about the fact that local authorities are up to their task. Mine is not a lack of trust (I am an entrepreneur and, as you know, to do business in Italy you have to be optimistic), but a well-founded reflection, since the funds of the PNRR represent a unique in the history of united Europe, such as the pandemic that we are going through. Not being able to rely on experience (because we cannot have it on something that, like PNRR and Covid, has never been there), my fear is that less efficient and effective territorial authorities than others, which are concentrated mainly in some areas of the country, that is to say in the South, are unable to spend these resources. It would be a tragedy if the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, instead of uniting the country, tightened the gap between rich territories and poor territories, between developed areas and backward areas. It would be paradoxical if the parts of Italy that need the PNRR's resources most were, in the end, the ones that will receive the least, precisely because of the lack of management capacity. It would be paradoxical if the Plan, which is national, turned out to be partial in the end and public investment went only to a part of the country. We all hope that Italy will be able to obtain and spend, up to the last euro, this 200 billion, but it would not be money well spent, if in the end we found ourselves with a two-speed Italy. In order to avoid this scenario, it is vital to strengthen infrastructure in the South. There is a very strong expectation on this issue from millions of citizens and businesses and there must be the greatest attention on our part. Nowadays, capitals move with a click, but goods and people, including tourists, do not. That is why the South cannot miss this opportunity to fill the infrastructure delay. Each of us is called to make our own contribution. The hope is that, at the end of the implementation of the PNRR, we will have a more modern Italy in all and - more importantly - everywhere and that we will all go together and at the same speed towards a more prosperous future. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u17	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bagnai. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u18	Mr President, last night, free from the responsibilities of the budget law, having been called upon to comment on the decree implementing the PNRR (for friends - and I am obviously among them - the recovery decree), I opened, with a sense of responsibility towards this House (for which I feel the same reverence that pervaded me when, for the first time, I entered it in March 2018), the dossier drawn up with the usual diligence by the Parliamentary Studies Offices. I opened it and immediately closed it. I do not know whether 483 pages are too many or too few to sum up a measure which has involved 12 ministers, is declined in 52 articles and intervenes with measures expected and necessary, in areas ranging from tourism to special economic areas (SEZs), university education, urban regeneration, water resources and the energy market (I leave out others, since ten minutes have been allocated to me in terms of Regulation). Surely these pages were much more than what a man of the 21st century could absorb in the small space that was granted him - which was granted us - for the examination of the measure. Of course, as well as in the Government, which we trusted, we also have complete confidence in the work that has been done by colleagues from the other branch of Parliament. Let us say this: in two days' time we shall be dumping gifts under the Christmas tree (I hope I will not bump into any sensitivity, mentioning this anniversary) and today we are rejecting this package of measures in this House, which in some way comes as a surprise, in the sense that, with all the best will, having been absorbed by the draft budget law, few of us have been able to examine within it. I shall therefore avoid going into the matter, as the previous rapporteurs and colleagues have done with skill and admirable spirit of synthesis. I shall confine myself to making, for the benefit of those who listen to us, especially from the outside, some considerations on the method, in order to stimulate, precisely, the general discussion. I would start with a figure: like the mid-seasons, so the double readings have now disappeared, supplanted by ever more extreme events. The omnibus decrees are the water bombs that flood our classrooms, testing the precious infrastructure that is the Constitution. The separation between formal and material constitutions is the first thing that struck me when I became an active and more or less conscious part of the legislative process. The de facto monocameralism in which we operate led me, at first, to rethink the political judgements, very tranchant, that I had given as profane on the proposals for reform of my colleague Renzi; I began to think that monocameralism could not be so bad, compared to the alternative, as we are living it. Of course it is, however, that the experience of this month of December has led me to rethink myself further. On the question of whether a single Chamber could bear the weight of two ponderous measures such as the budget law and the recovery decree, I fear the answer is no. [[Applause]] The fact is that the practice of law-making mainly by omnibus decrees, a practice towards which sails were set out before the emergency, but which the emergency has consolidated, determines in fact the hegemony of the 5th Commission and the marginalization of the other Commissions of merit, crushed on a purely consultative role. In this way, however, without prejudice to the right of every colleague to intervene in the work of any Commission, it is necessary to sterilize the best thematic competences that this Parliament expresses, which are not always able to be involved in the examination of measures, to which they could make a significant contribution. The debate in this House, therefore, fatally assumes the dimension of the ventilator, in which colleagues of the Commissions of merit, who have been excluded for reasons of force majeure from the analysis of the measure in the Commission, make a contribution that is fatally declined in the forms of regret and criticism. A solution must be found, perhaps elsewhere, and finding it is urgent. We must not forget that, by the sovereign will of the electorate - which, in my opinion, paradoxical have turned out to be particularly anxious to reduce their representatives and therefore their power of representation, a bit like the man who, in order to punish his wife, submitted to the same painful operation of the Attis of Catullo [[Applause]] - between, at most, fifteen months, the Chambers will leave at reduced ranks and honestly I do not know how they will be able to withstand the eventual continuation of such hail of decrees. There is, then, another problem of method, at the same time more specific, because it concerns European matter, and more general, which is to bring back to balance, with intellectual honesty, the narrative about Europe. The detachment between formal and material constitutions combines in a perverse way with another detachment, that between narrated Europe and real Europe, that, insofar as it generates excessive expectations, risks to turn out to be a boomerang for those who do not contrast it, bringing in the debate a voice of common sense. We have already seen this happen with the European Stability Mechanism (ESM). You will remember when last year this fund was hailed as the decisive solution, the only one to finance the health cost of the pandemic; it seemed that there was no alternative. Then, instead, we came out of it - or, better, we are coming out of it - without drawing improperly on a fund created for other reasons. He was therefore right who, like the League, urged not to focus all the debate and all the attention on a single instrument: complex problems cannot have a single solution. [[Applause]] This applies to the economy, but also to health, as the facts are showing. I quote the European People's Party, which four days ago on Twitter reminded us of what we have been saying here, as a League Group, since April and is handed over to the acts of this branch of Parliament, namely that vaccination cannot be the only response in the fight against Covid-19, but we need therapies. [[Applause]] So the news is that the League has not yet entered the EPP, but fortunately the EPP has entered into the League's common sense. [[Applause]] But, above all, where there is no alternative and there is no politics, there is the technique and we must ask ourselves about the technique, because it is the same technique that has advised for so long, too long (and perhaps even today continues to advise, between one side of Christmas and the other), simple but unsuccessful answers, such as austerity and others more relevant to the times we live. We still do not consider it very appropriate to present the recovery plan as the only solution, perhaps not even as the decisive solution to the economic crisis resulting from the pandemic. It is, of course, an instrument to be exploited, given that there is one, but with full awareness not only of its opportunities but also of its limitations; this awareness exists in Europe. We continue to be perplexed about the choice made by our country, with very few others and not among the leading countries, to access the loan instrument. The role of loans is to anticipate expenditure that does not have the financial means to support, but in all evidence - the documents of the European Union recognize it, like the in-depth analysis of the Recovery and Resilience Plan, published by the Commission - the reduced recovery times confront all countries, not only Italy, to a particularly insidious trade-off, the one between not absorbing all the resources of recovery or making improper use of it, with waste and misdeeds, in an attempt to spend it anyway. The decree-law under examination intelligently affects these aspects. However, I would like to highlight the need expressed by my colleague Stefano to evolve towards a long-term programmatic vision (he spoke of twenty years), emphasizing the fact that this aspiration, absolutely legitimate and motivated, cannot be resolved, however, by a tool that has a six-year horizon. [[Applause]] Therefore, the point remains that at this stage the problem for our country is not finding financial means, because the international reliability of this Government protects us sufficiently; the problem is to spend them and it is not said that the solution to this problem can come by decree-law. Let me give you a simple example: it took five months to find governance at the main contracting station in the country, ANAS, after the inauspicious debut in August that you will remember. These are problems that also objectively affect the ability to spend. Much of what is to be done to support the growth of the country, therefore, does not depend on others and on their supposed generosity, if that is so; it depends on us, on our ability to finally activate a constructive dialogue and without prejudice between the political class and the ruling class, which some call the technical class of the country. A decree-law cannot solve this problem - which is cultural - but it can be an opportunity to pose it, as I did in this intervention, hoping that I have not abused your time. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u19	Senator Cioffi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u20	Mr President, we are discussing the PNRR and how to spend these important resources. Let us remember the great work done by the previous Government and by President Conte, who fought for 90 consecutive hours to succeed in achieving this result. We can't forget what it was. Even with this measure, which we are analysing, we are faced with the fact, once again, that the Senate cannot intervene realistically. We are speaking on a few agendas, but certainly this way of doing things is beginning to become rather annoying, not to mention tiring and perhaps ineffective, because sometimes one of the two rooms does not work perfectly in harmony with what the general spirit should be. In particular, I want to talk about Article 6, which deals with some important types of public works, in respect of which it was intended to amend a law approved last July by inserting an additional paragraph which, according to the intention, simplifies the system very much. But we must also be concerned that simplification is not at the expense of quality. When it is said that we can compete for the technical and economic feasibility study, which is the first level of design, and on that study we work on the Conferences of services and ask for the EIA, let's say that this provision is in stark contrast to legislative decree no. 50 of 2016, that is the code of contracts, modified several times. But it goes slightly in contrast with the simplifications introduced over time and we see that in fact there is an exauteration. We are talking about railway works, with respect to which the greatest designer is the Italferr company, which belongs 100% to Ferrovie dello Stato. A state-owned company can easily make a definitive project, I don't think it's that difficult; so it's just a matter of working very carefully, well and effectively. We are convinced that state companies can do so quietly, so we wonder why we need to simplify. I realize that we are probably talking about the largest railway infrastructure to be built, namely the Salerno-Reggio Calabria in High Speed, but since only the first two pieces are inserted in the PNRR, perhaps this goal could be achieved in another way. The particular thing is that this provision, which partially removes the procedure of the Conference of Services and the times of the EIA, is also applied to all the commissioners' works, as well as to works not covered by PNRR and the supplementary fund. We ask ourselves, then: are we completely distorting the sense of public works, procurement, the way we work in this country? In the 8th Commission we are all trying together to rewrite the delegation law on the code and we will find ourselves in contradiction with what is happening in the other branch of Parliament. Of course, we will work in 8th Commission to give a delegation to the Government to put the system back in place, in which the project is a guarantee for the public administration and its execution is controlled by the director of the works, trying not to exceed in the overlap. In fact, when projects are carried out directly by companies, associations between companies and professionals and engineering companies, sometimes the public interest needs to be verified. The problem is precisely this: when certain passages are inserted in the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate does not have the opportunity to correct certain measures that are inserted, we wonder what we should do. Perhaps we should start to act a little more radically, from Movimento 5 Stars of the last legislature. Perhaps we should write in the Senate Rules that, with the exception of cases of national emergency, the Government should not be able to put trust in the bill of conversion of decrees-laws. Perhaps it would be a bit strong, but if we want to talk about the centrality of Parliament, we should start thinking about this and we should start taking the initiative away from the government to take it back. We are absolutely able to do our job if we work for the collective interest, as we know how to do. Sometimes the government gets a little overboard; maybe we should take up a little bit of the urge to intervene to prevent things from happening that we can't correct. But we will correct them in the delegation on the code of contracts, putting the dots on the "i" to ensure that the system of public works is effective, efficient and economic, that the money is spent well and above all that the objective of separating the public interest from the private one is achieved. [[Applause.]] 10:55 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u21	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u22	Mr President, I give up my reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u23	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u24	Mr President, I would just like to point out a few points very quickly, even from the point of view of the debate. It seems important to me first of all to stress how important it is that two speeches are being discussed in this House today (now the Decree-Law on the implementation of the PNRR and in the afternoon and evening the examination of the draft budget law) which are and must be closely linked, as they aim to contribute to a comprehensive, integrated vision on how we all want to combine and direct the recovery, the revival of our country with a growth based on the three fundamental guidelines that go through the whole PNRR, but which are also in the draft budget law. I am referring to the support for technological innovation, the environmental transition, often referred to in the Decree-Law implementing the PNRR in terms of the need to respect in any case and in any case the principle of not causing significant harm to the environment and to the third (not least important) director, who is to assume in all this a view of territorial cohesion and social equity. I do not want to make it long, but this union of interventions is seen in more ways, the most important of which is certainly the role that has finally assumed in public intervention the weight given to investments and in particular to public ones. This is obviously one of the pillars of the PNRR, but it is also relevant to the budget law. Public investment covers all infrastructure, both tangible and intangible, from mobility infrastructure to digital infrastructure (with a view to digital citizenship). Precisely with regard to social infrastructure, the close link between the implementation of the PNRR, which is basically largely investment expenditure, and the budget law, which is largely current expenditure, is seen in a very important way in the areas of welfare (school, health and education). For example, I would like to remind you that the PNRR, which assigns very substantial and absolutely new resources for our country to a plan for the construction and restructuring of the kindergartens, joins in the bill of budget the important choice of financing with current expenditure, which will come to about the billion, the necessary financing of the current part of expenditure that makes it possible to really have the donkeys, otherwise we would only have empty schools and would make absolutely no sense. The other link between the two interventions is support for private investment, which is seen in the strengthening of the financial maneuver given to the Transition Plan 4.0, which is the backbone of the PNRR, but it is also seen, on the other hand, in the tax credits that give both the Decree-Law implementing the PNRR, for example, in the field of tourism and construction, and the budget law through the superbonus. The second point that I would like to stress very quickly concerns the collective responsibility to which the PNRR and its implementation call us and in particular, in order to take up a theme highlighted by many interventions, the need for the involvement of the whole institutional chain, so not only the central state, but also the regions and municipalities - many have focused on this point - in various respects. In fact, the contributions that will come to the municipalities will involve crucial aspects for the realization of the plan, in particular regarding the urban redevelopment, the safety of the buildings and the overcoming of the architectural barriers in order to allow everyone to live the city. However, it will be important, as has been pointed out, for there to be - as there are, because it is planned - differentiated plans, integrated urban plans, which are more affluent than larger cities, metropolitan cities, but also the attention, with a view to equity and territorial cohesion, to the possibility of small communities actively participating in this plan. Parliament's role in the PNRR has also been important in this area, in order to stress that, in order for this to be possible, it is necessary to continue to insist, as has already been done several times, on the interventions that have taken place. This is in order to allow the municipalities to count on qualified staff, not only for the management and implementation of the plans, but for the planning of the interventions. The last point that I would like to stress, which has also emerged widely not only in this morning's debate, but also in the parliamentary work carried out in the House, concerns the need for maximum transparency and good and competent monitoring, with the strengthening of Parliament's role - as has been said - also in view of the fact that I have already called for a collective responsibility. Monitoring and transparency are in fact necessary, not only for the implementation of the Plan, because we must take into account the fact that the Plan will involve a very large amount of investment, a very significant distribution of procurement and a large share of public funding to the private economy. It will therefore be necessary to have special attention, as is foreseen in the measure to our examination, to the prevention of the phenomena of mafia infiltration, but also, in relation to the events that have disturbed our country in all these last months, to the respect of the rules on the safety of the job. I believe that monitoring is essential, because we must finally remember strongly that our PNRR has three cross-cutting objectives, which should therefore be present in each of the decisions taken, which are gender equality, intergenerational equity and territorial equity. In order to be actually achieved, these objectives must be monitored step by step.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u25	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the first standing Commission on this draft law, which will be published in an annex to today's report. He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Mr D'Incà. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I put the question of confidence in the adoption, without amendments or additional articles, of the single article of draft law No 2483, of the conversion of Decree-Law No 152 of 6 November 2021 into the text approved by the House of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u27	The Presidency takes note of the position of the matter of confidence on the approval of the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 152, in the same text as that approved by the Chamber of Deputies. The Conference of Leaders is convened to organise the relevant debate. I therefore suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 11.03 a.m. and resumed at 11.26 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u28	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u30	MALPEZZI (PD). Mr President, we are about to adopt this measure, which often passes on newspaper and television headlines such as the PNRR decree, which is described as a set of a thousand rules, and therefore takes away the value of this text a little bit. Comparing myself with my colleagues, I would like to return to focus precisely on the meaning that the acronym PNRR has, focusing above all on the last letter, which is for "resilience": the PNRR is in fact that instrument through which Parliament, together with the Government, is trying to change the country actively, not transforming us into passive subjects of a change, but becoming its agents. PNRR stands for National Recovery and Resilience Plan, a term, the latter, too often used, but in this case it is used in its deepest meaning, namely the ability to absorb shocks without breaking and I like to emphasize this: absorb shocks without breaking. We have been through a very deep crisis from which, united, thanks to the great project carried out with Europe, we have been able to achieve this resilience, this ability not to break us, not to break us and to be agents of this change. The rules contained in this great decree-law provide precisely the processes to build the backbone of the country, a wounded country, but not broken, that succeeds, through resilience, to find again the suitable form to be ready for change. This is the PNRR, an offer of important tools to achieve growth and development goals, after the dramatic experience of the pandemic. From this great crisis - we must also say it with pride - Italy comes out as a great country. It comes out for growth, for the ability to reconstruct itself, it also comes out as a model of management of a pandemic never seen before, with rules never seen before, that Italy seems to have created and then borrowed from others, so much so that other countries are looking at ours. We, even today, in a world and in a Europe in great difficulty are managing this suffering with some more instrument, perhaps because we have been more careful, putting into effect that caution often so much criticized, as if we were too eager to keep everything closed, when instead the great strength in marching together towards the achievement of an objective that would lead the country to gradual openings in order not to close again, has proved to be the right path together with the great vaccination campaign. This campaign also held together the economic restart of the country. We are among the first in the world with regard to the number of vaccines; we are among the first to have managed to implement also a sort of rule that maintains, despite the vaccines, the distance, the mask and the safety and protection measures that are not porches, but fundamental tools in order to guarantee to all of us the restart in safety. The better this pandemic is managed, the smaller the impact on the economy in the event of a new wave. Italy is in this good position; we have this great recovery, the drive of private consumption and investment. Precisely thanks to the implementation of the rules inserted within this decree and these norms we will have tools able to make us make a bigger leap, to give us the agility necessary for this change of form and this resilience to be total. Growth is clearly the essential ingredient and the exit from the crisis must go hand in hand with these policies that help increase productivity and economic development. Growth is also the best strategy to reduce the endemic evil of our country, which is public debt. The path of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan is entering precisely the living phase of the operation and the facts and we know that this complex plan also requires a leadership class prepared at all levels on the territories. We need it like bread and we are seeing what our local authorities, municipalities and administrators are doing about it. I think that Parliament's task is precisely to be close to all local administrators, accepting their requests, concerns and questions, helping them to build the right answers to be more and more effective in using these tools. The measure that we are about to vote on contains a large package of measures necessary to address even the most contingent issues; there is aid for companies in different sectors, from tourism to catering, a series of measures to speed up the recovery and give a boost to what can really help Italy to become a modern country for all intents and purposes. We, as a Democratic Party, feel at the forefront of this. I am very happy because yesterday in the Commission we adopted a unanimously adopted agenda - we have presented it, but we are glad that it has become an instrument of all - in which we have reiterated what is the priority point for us in all this work. We have asked the Government, which has responded favourably, to commit itself to try to further strengthen, through a continuous and constant contradictory with Parliament, that as we have already seen is not supine to the PNRR, but wants to have its protagonism and is highlighting it at all stages, this comparison on the instruments responsible for assessing the impact of investments and the reforms of the PNRR. In particular, it is expected that the wider national community of social and economic representatives will be properly involved, on the basis of best practices of public policy assessments, in order to see what are the actual spillovers and the actual achievement of the objectives of the Plan, starting from the three pillars that we have repeated several times in this House, namely those that reduce the gender and territorial generational gaps in order to ensure the wider involvement of territorial institutions. We are in this work, together with the Government, because we are present on the territories and we believe that the constant confrontation between the Government and Parliament on this subject can really help us in the act of direction that Parliament can give the Government, even in order to recalibrate some situations. It is an important tool, with respect to which we want to continue to play our role as elected parliamentarians from the territories, who manage to bring the difficulties, but also - perhaps - models of good practices that have been realized in some parts of our country. As Senators of the PD we are also going around the territory to take suggestions and see the difficulties, trying to solve them. We put at the government's disposal the assets we're building. For all these reasons and for the desire to continue and increase cooperation, our vote on this measure will be in favour. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u31	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u33	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, we are about to vote, through trust, on a very powerful measure, which contains a lot of rules and enters into the heart of the PNRR. This is one of the most important measures to launch and ground - as they say - the PNRR. Unfortunately, we are often forced to vote without full involvement of the Senate. We cannot fail to point out that the time has been very short and we absolutely must find a way to enable the two branches of Parliament to carry out its work to the full. The decree is very important and contains many rules. It would have been very important to allow the Senate to make its contribution and in particular to the committees involved, who were able to do nothing but briefly scroll through its pages. It is a vulnus on which we must intervene, which will be repeated in the House of Deputies with the budget law and risks humiliating the two branches of Parliament in turn. We can no longer ignore the marginalisation of Parliament, which is a very serious and profound constitutional problem, all the more so with regard to the examination of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, on which we have worked very hard. We are not yet out of the deep crisis and therefore, all the instruments that allow us to ensure a real recovery in the country must be put in place. We were the first to discuss recovery, already in the first drafts, through a work that was done before in Europe. And I would like to emphasise this aspect, because the Next generation EU did not come at random: the work of Italy was fundamental to reverse the way we proceed in Europe, affirming, also through the Next generation EU, the idea of a common programme, of common resources, of a common debt in order to get out of the pandemic crisis. I would like to remind myself first that the fundamental points of the Next generation EU are aimed at starting the most important transitions, such as the ecological transition, to respond not only to the pandemic, economic and social emergencies, but also to the climatic one, through an instrument that makes us make, all together, a leap forward. But the heart of the Next generation EU is the ecological transition intertwined with the need to put in place measures that strengthen the territories and produce social cohesion. These are the two fundamental pillars on which we have tried to work to build the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. There are many Missions that have been approved and the projects that appear in the text, which obviously now need to find a form of realization. This is what the measure we are examining is concerned with. It deals with a lot of tourism, allocating many resources to businesses and structures, to start energy efficiency, restructuring and a strong modernisation. It is good that the resources, as well as the projects concerning the territories, the municipalities and the metropolitan areas, are all aimed at urban regeneration, building renovations, safety. The measures contained in this decree-law are very important and interesting. I would like to highlight one, which is one of the fundamental issues for us in Liberi and Equal, which, among other things, we had tried to put in place even before the adoption of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, namely the focus on recruitment. We must equip our territorial and central administrations with human resources capable of carrying out the projects. We come from desertification, both at the level of the municipalities and at the central level, because of the blockage of turnover, which now makes it necessary to find the appropriate and efficient professionalism in order to be able to carry out and implement the projects. In this decree-law there is a whole part that concerns the staff, which is very interesting. Of course, they are all fixed-term recruitment and I hope that in time we will realise that we need to increase the efficiency of human resources not only on a fixed-term basis, but also by trying to stabilise the modernisation process. I would also like to draw the Government's attention to one aspect. Once again we proceed with further simplifications. Very well: simplifications are needed, and we have been doing nothing but simplification measures for about three years. But I would like to understand, when we make the budget, what simplifications have been achieved and what problems have been, and whether improvements have to be made. I have the impression that this budget does not exist and, once again, for the realization of all the works, action is taken with the reduction of the time for the assessment to the environmental impact. I would point out that the Conference of Services is also in danger of being cancelled, because we are proceeding with non-executive but feasibility projects. So I warn against that. We hope, of course, that everything will be fine and that the procedures, even further shortened and simplified, will not create problems. I recall the basic principle of the Next generation EU, which was included in this decree also with regard to the projects of the territories and municipalities. No approved project within the National Recovery and Resilience Plan must be harmful to the environment. So, I would like to understand how we measure the sustainability of these projects; how we measure the fact that they need to improve and not clearly create harm; it is clear that further and heavily restricting all environmental impact and environmental sustainability assessments is risky. Therefore, I hope that we will pay the greatest attention to this, because we cannot risk that the National Recovery and Resilience Plan (as well as the recovery plan and the Next generation EU), which is born to respond to the pandemic crisis, but also to face the climate crisis, can produce a reverse situation or bring damage, where it should create a qualitative leap. We will be watching and Parliament must be able, not only with an agenda, but even more with certain procedures, to monitor and, above all, to make its own contribution. Let us hope that the ever-increasing risk of the marginalisation of Parliament is a fast-closer parenthesis. For all these reasons I announce the vote in favour of the Free and Equal-Ecosolidal Group. [[Applause.]] 11:46 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u34	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u36	Garavini (IV-PSI). Mr President, Undersecretary Guerra, ladies and gentlemen, it is through the successful implementation of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan that Italy will be able to demonstrate whether it really deserves the various international praises that come in these weeks, or whether the great performances of the last year have been just a random and sporadic episode. We are convinced that Italy deserves those praises all: on the one hand, because now we have an authoritative guide able to give credibility to the country, and then because we are a great people, composed of citizens and citizens, who, compared to the drama of the Covid, has been able to sacrifice themselves much more than in other countries and has expressed a great civic sense. Now is the time to make further efforts to demonstrate first to ourselves where we can still go and the PNRR is the right instrument. We are receiving huge resources from Europe, almost EUR 200 billion, but it would not be enough for all the world's money if that money were not well spent, if it were not allocated in the right chapters, which this Plan is worthwhile trying to do. As Italy Viva we can only say satisfied with the investment forecasts in place, starting with the resources designed to support gender equality and reconciliation between the world of work and family, with over 220,000 places of daycare and 1,000 school canteens; initiatives in line with our Family Act, because they represent a boost to women's work, that female work that, if it were to match the male one, would increase the country's gross domestic product, that is, the national wealth, of 88 billion. Here is that gender equality is not only a beautiful ethical principle on which to discuss in conferences, but also a question of growth and general progress. We also very much like the funds for infrastructure: 25 billion in total, with particular attention to the South; money that puts work into circulation, economy and aim to cancel the differences in territorial levels, combining Italy from North to South. Again, these are measures which are in line with what we asked for in our shock plan. In the same way, we feel in harmony with the strong environmentalism expressed by the Plan: I think of the appropriations against the hydrogeological failure, wanted by Minister Bellanova already during his previous assignment to the Dicastery for agricultural and forestry policies, then confirmed by his current successor. How many times have we complained about the destruction of beautiful landscapes and villages due to floods, overflows, landslides? With the resources made available by the PNRR, we are facing this scourge with often dramatic consequences. So the nearly 80 billion that we invest in the ecological transition are strategic, with actions as ambitious as necessary: from reforestation to rationalization of the water and sewerage network, from energy efficiency of buildings to support the circular economy, from the completion of the waste cycle to the increase of renewable energies; all measures through which the ecological turning point becomes a engine of development. In the same way, the development engine is also destined to become the digital evolution that, in the PNRR, occupies 20% of the total resources. Investing in digitisation has a dual effect: on the one hand, it promotes growth and, on the other, it makes the State fairer and fairer, to the extent that it becomes more accessible. We must not forget that bad bureaucracy costs the Italian economy more than 60 billion a year: a cost that we can no longer afford and that we can break down by implementing digital. Modernising public administration also means making it faster and more connected, i.e. more at the service of citizens. The need to digitize is not an opinion, it is not a visionary idea, but it is a more than current urgency. The resources of the PNRR that serve to innovate the country, Madam President, aim in fact to cancel the gaps still existing in our society, that is those imbalances that still remain and separate - for example - the southern regions from the northern ones or the female world from the labour market. We want an Italy in which there should be no prior preclusions: no more man or woman, North or South; no longer the forced choice mother or worker, environment or development. The country we want overcomes these delays and does so by spending the PNRR's resources well. Italy of the future we want it to be inclusive, green, clean, fast. Then turning towards concrete environmental policies rather than towards the use of new technologies, in order to simplify, overcome bureaucracy and streamline public administration, is no longer a choice, but becomes a necessity. At the same time, the PNRR is also a gigantic resource collector, which unfortunately threatens to rage the criminals and criminal organizations. That is why it is appropriate that this measure also includes measures not only to counter, but also to prevent possible mafia infiltrations, for example through the introduction of the preventive contradictory, which consists in the fact that the prefect may adopt a precautionary anti-mafia ban where he considers that the conditions have existed. Criminal infiltrations are unfortunately more than a real risk and must be observed as much as the risk of not using PNRR money well. In fact, if we allowed the mafias to get their hands on the Plan, it would amount to wasting this great opportunity. With the Next generation EU, Europe has been able to react in an extraordinary way to the Covid, the most serious crisis since the post-war period. Instead of sticking to nationalist and bankrupt positions, the EU was able to put in place strong European measures that could not be imagined just a few months earlier: debt pooling, collective investment, the anticipation of a sort of large Marshall Plan that would be useful to restart the whole Union, in order to cope with the health emergency. Europe has therefore understood the value of solidarity in order to get out of the pandemic. It is now up to us to live up to the wisdom and foresight that Europe has succeeded in achieving: either we will be able to take advantage of this chance by fueling with the necessary resources the reforms that we are putting in place and that Italy has been waiting for decades, or we will be back to being Europe's cinderella. There is no loophole and it would be a grave fault if we could not make good use of the unique opportunity that history offers us through the European recovery plan. In conclusion, Madam President, Italy's overall assessment of the PNRR can only be positive, because it is in line with the policies pursued then by the Renzi government, as well as with the fundamental values of our programme: gender equality, simplification, infrastructure, environment, development. These are interventions with which we transform the crisis produced by Covid into an opportunity to create growth and progress, overcoming the many unresolved nodes, such as bureaucracy, low productivity, difference in levels between North and South, devastated territories, gender inequalities. In short, this is an opportunity that the country has been waiting for a long time, also because it allows to involve all civil society actors (businesses, universities, research centres, intermediate bodies, third sector), putting in public and private synergy. Madam President, if we think about where we were a year ago, about the plan presented by the previous Government, about the stalemate in which we were plunged from the economic and health point of view, and then look at today, we realize that that turn of the kidneys at the beginning of the year, for which we were so criticized, but which allowed us to trigger a change of government and get to today's vote, today we can say that it was the best action we could do. Politics means sometimes being at a crossroads, before which to decide whether to pursue immediate consent or to act for the good of the country for the next decades and to mark the course of things. We chose the good of the country. We took charge of writing a new story page. This PNRR is proof of this and we are sure that the resources invested to the best will lead even further the Italy of the future. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u37	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u39	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Brothers of Italy Group did not participate in the work of the Commissions, nor in the debate in this House on the PNRR decree-law to protest that we were not allowed to examine the text that came to the Senate even in the slightest. Our protest concerns both the times and the ways in which the Senate is forced to work on measures that the majority itself defines as fundamental. We cannot discuss, amend or improve a text that we do not know and have not been able to read. But the fact, Mr President, that the Senate approves a text that it has not read, that it has not understood and has not improved seems to be of no interest to anyone anymore. It certainly does not concern this House or the huts that disturb those who are speaking, so I will not speak until... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u40	Colleagues, there's an unacceptable gathering.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u41	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, we are discussing the fact that the Senate does not count for anything, while the senators are discussing something else, in the absolute disinterest in what the opposition is saying to this House. This is also a sign of the times, Mr President. We could intervene in this debate by listening to something, by referring to press articles, by copying things that others have said, or by reading things that others write without understanding them, but I believe that this is not the function that we are called as senators of the Republic. Mr President, I would also like to take advantage of this speech to point out that in the Senate, at the adoption of this important decree-law, no minister is present at this time responsible for the matter. With all due respect for the Secretary of State for War present here and for Minister Stefani, to whom, of course, our respect for the role he plays as Minister for Disability, we expected at least a fake confrontation - Mr President, excuse me - with some competent Minister on the PNRR. But there is no one, and just look at the government benches. This is the debate of the Senate on the fundamental plane for the future of the country: a Undersecretary, no economic minister, least of all the President of the Council, not the Minister of Economy and Finance, not the Undersecretary with delegation to relations with the European Union, not the Minister of Transport and Sustainable Mobility, nor that of economic development. There's no one here, Mr. President. Of course, this does not in any way disturb the conscience and activity of the majority groups, but we have the right to remember that. It has been said that the acceleration of the time comes from the fact that there are emergencies to be respected, because the PNRR must come into force and there are European objectives to be achieved. The delay with which the decree-law arrived in the Senate does not depend, however, on the obstructionism and the role of the opposition, but it is a responsibility to be attributed in full to the majority, which delayed the deposit of the decree-law - as it did for the law of stability - with continuous postponements, with continuous convocations and convocations of the Assembly and of the same Commissions, with the deposit of thousands of amendments by the same majority forces, which - as I said yesterday - did obstructionism to the majority itself. I also remind my colleagues in the Democratic Party that in 2019 - not a geological era ago but two years ago - the Democratic Party, in view of the fact that the yellow-green government at the time had put its trust in the maxi amendment to the law of stability, not only protested very strongly, but appealed to the Constitutional Court, to denounce the violation of Parliament's freedom and the right-duty of Parliament to examine the texts of the law of stability. Where did that outrage go, colleagues in the Democratic Party? Is everything okay now? Now is it okay to approve the PNRR and put the question of trust in the Senate at first reading on the Stability Act? The memory is really very short. Moreover, every day - on the one hand - there is great emphasis, especially on the part of the majority forces, around the National Recovery and Resilience Plan and it is painted as if the future of our country depended on it. On the other hand, this emphasis is reflected in the zeroing of Parliament's role, which should be expressed on this Plan, trying to improve it and at least knowing it fully. Mr President, the problem is that we are discussing, as if it were nonsense, the transformation of this Republic and the fact that this is a parliamentary Republic - as the majority of our colleagues always tell us - only when it comes to defending and justifying the riots, the multicolored governments and the changes in the majority. [[Applause]] Then it is a parliamentary republic! On the other hand, when it comes to discussing very important issues, it ceases to be a parliamentary republic and in fact becomes a presidential, semi-presidency Republic or as you want to call it. And this is said by one who, consistently, for a long time, together with his colleagues from the Brothers of Italy Group and the Italian political right, is in favour of a presidential Republic and the direct election of the Head of the Executive. I am referring, however, to direct elections, because Italian citizens must decide who is the Head of the Commission. However, a presidential republic and the transformation of the Constitutions are not acceptable without anyone knowing anything about it, in the general silence or general consensus of those who tear their clothes apart, when, instead, in Parliament we were talking about these matters, saying that the presidential Republic and direct election were a threat to democracy, as well as man alone in power and the concentration of powers around one person. Colleagues of the majority, now this is exactly what is happening, unlike in that Republic, which we imagine and design, the President is elected with free consultation by the citizens. Some observers argue that Parliament's role has been so long, with the difference that what used to be a trend has in fact become an uncontrolled and uncontrollable drift, which does not seem to interest anyone, not even those who should watch over that drift. I recall very quickly that we began three years ago, with the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers (DPCM), that is, with acts of administrative de facto of the first Conte Government, which were going to limit the individual freedoms of individuals and constitutional freedoms, without even involving Parliament. It took a very strong protest, especially by Brothers of Italy, to force the Government at least to bring, with decrees, into the Chambers of the Senate and the Chamber those texts. Then the decrees became rains of decrees; then the decrees burst; then the decrees matrioska, that is, a decree containing another decree, which contains another decree. And again: the decrees with confidence; then the decrees with confidence at first reading and then the decrees, with confidence at first reading, which contain hundreds and hundreds of articles to be approved in a few weeks; then the decrees with confidence at first reading with hundreds of omnibus articles, with in everything and the opposite of everything, from gas bills to psychology courses, except that Parliament on that could not touch ball. All the amendments, in fact, were all considered inadmissible because of their extraneousness to the matter, even if what was the matter still remains a mystery today. Mr President, I am afraid to be Cassandra saying that, after blowing up the stakes of Parliament's protection, it will be difficult to replant them, because once the drift wins and wins, there is no room for anyone anymore. In conclusion, I would just like to say that the state of emergency in this country has become an exception, with all the seriousness that this entails. I refer to what a constitutionalist not certainly right-wing, Michele Ainis, said that, at this moment, General Son is worth more than a thousand parliamentarians. Finally, let's talk about the PNRR. I would like to remind those who accused us of being Eurosceptic and Euro-critical that the PNRR comes after we, in the European Parliament, have waged a battle against the ESM. Anyone remember the MES? Remember what they said was that hospitals would shut down if we didn't take the MES money? Do you remember the appeals on the seriousness of the positions of those who did not accept European dogmatism about the ESM and the rigidity of austerity plans on the Stability Pact? [[Applause]] The only ones who have witnessed a countercurrent and free vision are us. And this should teach something about the fact that in Parliament we need a free and counter-current voice: it serves Parliament and serves the country above all, even on a sad day like this, Mr President, when, for the first time, in the history of the Republic, the Senate will vote for two trusts in twelve hours? [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u42	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u44	MODENA (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the magnitude of the measure that we are going to vote for today, for which Forza Italia has made an essential contribution in the work of the House, is evidenced by the news of a few minutes ago, about 11.30 a.m., which shows that the signing, by the MEF and the European Investment Bank, of the so-called "Fund of Funds," which was one of the most important forecasts of the legislation. The "Fund of funds" is, in practice, the Italian Recovery and Resilience Fund, thanks to which we will have 500 million that will cover all those matches of tourism that have already been listed during the general discussion. Not only that: we also have about 278 million for urban regeneration, which involves the Ministry of the Interior. These figures and instruments, the 'Fund of Funds', as it was called, should convey the idea that Parliament is discussing a measure that will not speed up, but that is already in progress, as the whole implementation of the PNRR is in the running, which must of course be followed closely. What are the fundamental pillars, which have seen - as I said - a parliamentary work very attentive to the House and very active on the part of my Group, which expressed one of the rapporteurs? I said about tourism and urban regeneration. The other key pillar is that of local authorities. I have heard some uninformed speeches which have made very clear judgments to reject on the activity of a Minister in particular. In the course of the discussion there was a meeting between President Draghi, the rapporteurs of the law, the National Association of Italian Municipalities (ANCI), the Union of the Provinces of Italy (UPI) and the Regions on the basis of which a number of choices were made to support mainly the small and large Municipalities, as well as the Ministries, for the recruitment to time made for the PNRR, obtaining - for example - for the Municipalities the overrun of the limit of the thirty-six months even when they are in distress. I believe that this must be stressed, because I have continued to hear complaints in the speeches that there is a staff problem. You have to see what it says, at least in broad lines. There is provision for 30 million for recruitments in small municipalities and a series of recruitments covering issues relating to support which must have the same financial and economic structure as the Ministry. Another pillar - I go to flight of the angel and I quote some essential points - is the digital game. Within this measure there is a very important part that Forza Italia has strongly supported and is that of digital knowledge in all schools. From this point of view too, account must be taken of the fact that it is one of the most important actions of the PNRR, because it is cross-cutting and takes care of the younger generations. There is a fourth pillar that I would like to stress and of which you will not miss the importance. Parliament's and the Group's work on this, too, has been important. For the unspent Cohesion Funds for 2014-2020 and those to be spent for the period 2021-2027, there will be the same simplified arrangements as for the PNRR. You understand for yourself what it means in terms of acceleration for the expenditure of the Regions, knowing very well what the problem is annoying from this point of view. Colleagues, as far as relations with Parliament are concerned, even if they are tired of budgetary manoeuvres, I would ask you to read Article 9-a, which strengthens the moments of confrontation between Parliament and all the actions that are being taken for the PNRR. From this point of view other very important pillars are the part dedicated to the checks aimed at avoiding mafia infiltrations; a series of norms always introduced by Forza Italia that modify the anti-mafia interdictative; the part that concerns the crisis of the enterprises and the part closest to the issues of justice. You know that accelerated procedures have been put in place to deal with businesses that have problems through the chambers of commerce. The programme for an installment for entrepreneurs of up to EUR 30,000 has been developed; an important programme connected with the chambers of commerce. We also have a rule that requires the heads of judicial offices, by 31 January, to indicate the priorities for criminal proceedings. So let us not give an unconvinced yes to this measure; instead, we are extremely convinced and we understand its scope. We know how much our colleagues have worked in the House and how much this measure - I insist on the concept - will not accelerate the PNRR, which is practically already in the race: these are adjustments, in my opinion, that are made to allow this race to be accelerated more and more. We see it - and I close it - from the same measures that are read from the institutional sites of tomorrow's Italy or from the Ministries, from which we can see that in the unified State-Regions Conference they are making agreements on course of the neck for the repartition of the funds. The decree scheme for water networks (900 million distributed) has been made; all the schemes for the renewal of ecological buses have been made: I mean that we talk about money that has arrived, agreements there are and plans have been made for parting, including, the last, 450 million for bridges and viaducts. Do you remember the bridges and viaducts of the beginning of the legislature? The repartition was done now, because clearly there were resources. There was also talk on the islands, for example, with an agreement for the protection of the small islands (from Lampedusa to Giglio) and yesterday at the press conference was given the announcement of one of the most important calls, the one that concerns the villages. It is therefore an important instrument - certainly always perfectable - with respect to which considerable efforts have been made, as the rapporteur has rightly claimed, recalling it in some passages. For this reason our vote will be in favour and convinced and will also invite the collective awareness that each of us must have. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u45	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u47	Arrigoni (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, the Senate has once again been deprived of the possibility of making a contribution to improving a text which, by introducing simplifications of procedures and the simplification of the administrative machinery, should be a fundamental part of Italy's restart after 2020 and also 2021 which have seen and still see us all engaged in the pandemic crisis. We are talking about a war that has caused so many deaths, that we are fighting with different weapons, certainly with vaccines, but above all with our health professionals, doctors and nurses, women and men of the Forces of the Order and voluntary associations, the mayors and all those who have committed themselves to overcoming this period that has brought Italy's GDP in 2020 to a decrease of 9%. The areas of intervention touched by the decree are many. I list some of them, starting from the revival of the tourism sector, receptive, fair and congressional, including tax credits, grants and soft loans. Travel agencies and tour operators, swimming pools, spa complexes, marinas, water parks, theme parks in general and then the bathing establishments are the target of many measures thanks to the action of Minister Garavaglia [[Applause]] , a super-tourism package with 2.4 billion allocated to support an important sector hit hard by the pandemic. The procedures for the approval of the program contract between MIMS and RFI are simplified in order to reduce the time of realization of the railway investments necessary in order to upgrade the North-South and East-West connections in our country. An action plan is foreseen for the redevelopment of polluted orphan sites, for the reconnaissance and reinterpretation of contaminated sites of national interest, for the reclamation and safety of landfills and contaminated sites of regional competence. Rules are introduced on the allocation of state contributions to municipalities in the fields of energy and water efficiency, sustainable mobility, urban regeneration, land use and safe hydrogeological risk. As the League called for in the Chamber of Deputies, respect for the time taken to pay the commercial debts of public administrations is introduced. It is no longer acceptable that a company should fail today because it does not collect the debts from the State. [[Applause]] We await to the test of the facts the effectiveness of these measures that should enable the country and all the actors actuators, State, Regions, Provinces, Municipalities, state companies and private enterprises to put to the ground, by 2026, 235 billion that finance actions and projects in different sectors. In short, we are working to achieve the implementation of the PNRR, born after the pandemic, a tsunami that has broken our country and the whole planet. I cannot fail to touch on the subject of dear energy, another tsunami that is overwhelming us and that is likely to frustrate the efforts of the PNRR. For months, expensive energy has been giving signs of extreme danger. The League highlighted this first with Senator Salvini and Minister Giorgetti. However, the problem has for too long been irresolutely underestimated and still is, especially by the European institutions. The dear energy is obviously not only Italian, but Italy suffers more because it pays questionable choices and inefficiencies never resolved. The causes of this dramatic Italian situation are to be found in our particular energy mix and in the excessive dependence on energy from abroad. The new intervention in manoeuvre of 3.8 billion to contain the increases in bills for the first quarter 2022 was necessary, but it is not enough, we need to do much more. The beneficiaries are 29 million households and 6 million micro-enterprises, but small, medium and large enterprises, especially energy, are in extreme difficulty. For them so far nothing or very little has been done. [[Applause]] There are also the municipalities and in general the public administrations that have not perhaps made a contract of supply at fixed price, that they have bills doubled if not tripled. Gas and electricity prices are now out of control. Today, December 23, electricity is given to 414 euros per megawattora that raises the daily average prices of December to 303. Think that in December 2020 we were at 54 euros per megawattora, a value in line with recent years. We're at a 765 percent increase. The gas is at the stratospheric level of 180 euros per megawattora, in December 2020 it was at 16.5; the percentage increase I leave to you, dear colleagues. Gas and light continue to rise and, moreover, the general winter still has to come and do not deceive yourself that in spring 2022 prices can fall to this year's spring levels. Unfortunately, forwards say that up to 2023 gas costs will remain high. The causes of this tragedy: certainly the post-Covid economic recovery, which raised gas demand, bottlenecks on supply gas supply, speculation in the gas market and especially in the ETS CO2 payment system. Then there are geopolitical issues related to all the current tensions between the West and Russia, the main gas supplier in Europe and Italy, which, instead of tempering, Europe is worsening. Among the causes, there are the many, too many wrong choices made in Europe and especially in Italy, in the name of an integralist environmentalism that, in the wake of the Green Deal and decarbonisation, has cut investments on gas, which is instead strategic in the role of accompanying the ecological transition. [[Applause]] Instead, it has invested too much money - and it is still doing so - on renewable energies, which have a very high cost for their lack of production when there is no sun and wind. There are many consequences and risks that are manifesting and while in Europe they continue to quarrel over what measures to take, the EU Commission irresponsibly cancels the doubling of the TAP, which would have allowed the diversification of supplies. Perhaps in Brussels they hope that the phenomenon of expensive energy will pass by itself and they do not realize that this crisis is becoming less and less cyclical and increasingly structural. These days, due to the shortage of electricity from France, from which we depend, and due to the low production of renewables, the coal-fired power stations of La Spezia and Monfalcone, which we had to quit, have been rekindled. For the unsustainable costs we will have an acceleration of the suspensions of activities of the enterprises and workers forced to the Cassa Integrazione. You'll see he's already massacred in the next few days. On Monday in the Torbole foundry, in Brescia, there will be a national event, with hundreds of entrepreneurs in particular from the hard to abbot sector, to launch a desperate alarm and highlight the dramatic situation that they are experiencing. Light and gas sellers are also jumping and, in order to avoid default, the Government, to which I address it at this time, needs to allow them to benefit from the Sace Guarantee Fund. The tsunami has arrived and the energy system collapses shortly, with possible blackouts. The risks of curbing post-pandemic restart and inflation are very high. They therefore call for initiatives. Italy can no longer wait for Europe, divided and - therefore - inert. [[Applause]] On the re-introduction of gas into taxonomy, they are still delaying. In the immediate future we would need diplomatic action on Putin to release more Russian gas and in Italy we need a directing booth, as proposed by Salvini, to immediately define new cuts in the bills and - then - structural measures. We must finally introduce tax reductions for energy-intensive industries and we must definitely resume to extract more gas. It is also necessary to decarbonise with the capture and storage of CO , technology that - instead - the left and the Movimento 5 Stars, with the complicity of the Democratic Party, have plunged into budget law. We must not lose the train of the development of the latest generation of nuclear power, which is clean and safe. As the League has requested, a debate must be opened on the return of nuclear power, which is the only stable technology that will enable decarbonisation. In short, you have to abandon... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u48	Please, Senator Arrigoni, I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u49	Arrigoni (L-SP-PSd'Az). Other than the green revolution, it's gonna be a disaster. The Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group will vote in favour of the measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u50	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u52	CASTELLONE (M5S). Mr President, Italy has been coming from a decade of continuous cuts in public investment, if we think that in 2009 this represented 3.7% of GDP and in 2018 it had fallen to 2.1%. Cutting public investment means cutting in areas such as education, health, research and development, where this should never be done. [[Applause]] Then came the pandemic, which showed us how much can not be cut in these sectors and how much Italy was behind compared to other European countries in digitization, research and development. It was necessary, therefore, to reverse the course and, to do so, Europe has made available an instrument that is represented by the funds of the Next generation EU, that great public investment plan - the largest of the last decade - that for the first time is fueled by a shared and shared debt. Of these investments, which amount to 750 billion euros, Italy has obtained almost a third. Italy, in fact, has gone as much as 209 billion euros and this only thanks to the commitment and dedication of the Government Count II and, in particular, of the President Count. [[Applause]] In order to obtain these funds, Mr President, these 209 billion destined for Italy, we have worked in absolute loneliness, with an opposition that used the pandemic to increase its electoral consensus. [[Applause]] Of the 209 billion, 80 are lost. These funds finance almost 150 new projects and 66 existing projects and form the basis of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, which fully embodies the vision of the future of the 5 Star Movement, which is based on three axes: digitisation, ecological transition and inclusion and cohesion. It develops through six missions. The first mission aims at the digitisation of the country, which means not only using new technologies, but reorganising processes to improve services for citizens. It means modernising public administration, simplifying processes, deburring. Mission 2 of the PNRR is destined for ecological transition, which certainly does not mean nuclear, as Senator Arrigoni said. [[Applause]] Ecological transition means energy transition, which we are also implementing thanks to those visionary measures designed by Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause]] I am thinking of the superbonus, the energy communities, the protection of water resources, which we can achieve by reducing the risk linked to hydrogeological failure, also thanks to instruments such as geological mapping, which we financed in the draft budget law. [[Applause]] We financed it once again on our own, and we did it in memory of our late Senator Franco Ortolani. [[Applause]] The PNRR mission 3 is dedicated to sustainable mobility, to reduce the infrastructure gap that exists between the North and the South of the country, which travels for decades at two speeds and not only in a figurative sense. Mission 4 allocates funds to education and research. With this mission, Mr President, let us strengthen the right to study, so that it is truly a right of all and not a privilege of a few. [[Applause]] We have raised the no tax area for university fees, from 13,000 euros in 2017 to 23,500 euros, so that all our young people can realize their talents. We have increased the full-time fund at school and this is so that the school really becomes a place of social ransom, especially for all young people who live in situations of discomfort. [[Applause]] We have strengthened the nursery plan and childcare services. Today, the Italian average of kindergartens is 25 percent, with the North-East at 33 percent and the South at just 12 percent. We are going to increase STEM skills, those competences in scientific matters that must encourage women in particular to embark on a scientific career. Let's go and allocate more money in research and development: once again Italy is a taillight in Europe with just 1.4% of GDP invested in research and development, which instead represent the engine for economic growth in a country. We've more than doubled our PhD grants from 9,000 to 20,000. [[Applause]] Mission 5 is dedicated to inclusion and cohesion. Let us strengthen the labour policies that support young people and women in particular. Let's start that stage 2 of the citizenship income that must lead the income recipients to finally enter the labour market. [[Applause]] Even President Draghi has often said that there can be no economic growth for Italy without social cohesion, cohesion that must be strengthened especially in the South, because if the South starts again Italy. [[Applause]] Finally, mission 6 is the one dedicated to health. The pandemic clearly showed us what our National Health Service lacked: there was a filter in the territory, there was a lack of staff, there was a lack of digitalization of the system and it is on these pillars that we are building the health of the future. So really, Mr President, I hope this 2022 represents the year of great reforms, a bit like 1978, a year when Parliament passed laws that profoundly changed Italian society: I am thinking of the law that established the National Health Service, the Basic Law and the law that regulated abortion. [[Applause]] Even then, from the social ferment came Parliament's request to obtain more protection and to enhance the freedom and rights of citizens. The Movimento 5 Stars, once again, has been crucial in this process of change, because it knows how to be at the forefront on these issues. [[Applause]] In order to achieve the PNRR, however, we need a great sense of responsibility and community, which Parliament has demonstrated these days, because only through this responsibility do we approve these reforms in such a short time, but we cannot continue to mortify Parliament's prerogative. President Mattarella has often urged us to become builders of good: this we must be. This Government and our institutions now have a duty to show citizens and Europe that we will be able to make good use of these resources and we will honour this commitment. Saint Francis said: "Start by doing what is necessary, then what is possible. And all of a sudden you'll be surprised to do the impossible. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u53	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u54	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u55	PARAGO (Misto-IPI-PVU). Mr. President, title of the movie: A banker from Goldman Sachs is the guarantor of the PNRR. And it's all in it. Is this a plan for the country? Too bad the country has not known anything for a long time, because you have kept it in the dark thanks to information that is the voice of the master. Is this a Plan for the Italian people? Suffice it to see the Government's presence here today. Parliament, which is the Assembly of the sovereign people, is neglecting it (I want to be very educated in the term). After all, you are not interested in governing for the people; you are interested in governing for financial globalisation, for multinational corporations. That's why I insist: Dragons is deeply a man of Goldman Sachs culture. Dragons points and will arrive at the Quirinale, because there is a global and globalizing design that needs to be accomplished. This is the goal: to disintegrate the true Italian economy. With the PNRR, you will trap Italy; other than raise. I have heard that there is a lot of money to spend, but spending money does not in itself mean enriching the country and the Italian economy. Much of the money will be spent in foreign economies, so we will go to enrich the economies of others; they lend us the money to spend in favor of the economies of others. Think about the eco-sustainability or switch on the electric: we will buy foreign electric cars and ruin the engine components district. The PNRR is the future scheme of a globalization that will rip the made in Italy. What about the digital revolution? You are creating the conditions for the replacement of workers by artificial intelligence, by robotization: it is the return to slavery through debt. After all, how much you care about the workers we have seen: always protect the multinationals (we have also seen it with the green pass). You like the new global masters and the workers must return to a modern feudalism. For this reason Draghi is the guarantor of the PNRR for that world; for this reason you will send him to be the governor of Italy to the Quirinale. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u56	We shall therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u57	I refer to the vote on the single article of bill No. 2483, of conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No. 152, 6 November 2021, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has raised the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the matter of trust will take place by roll-call vote. As established by the Conference of Leaders on 16 November last, each senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. I would remind you that it is necessary to avoid gatherings at the centre of the House and in the vicinity of access to the Presidency bench. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Giannuzzi is drawn by lot.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Giannuzzi. BINETTI, secretary, make the appeal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of the sole article of the bill n. 2483, of conversion into law, with amendments, of the decree-law n. 152, November 6, 2021, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust: [[Senators present 258 Senators voting 257 Majority 129 Favorables 229 Contrars 28]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause]] . All amendments and agendas relating to the text of Decree-Law No 152 are therefore excluded.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u58	The next item is the communication by the President, pursuant to Rule 126-a, paragraph 2-a, of the Rules of Procedure, on draft law No 2469: Annual law for the market and competition 2021/2019, linked to the public finance maneuver. I invite the Senator Secretary to read the opinion given - after hearing the Government - by the 5th Permanent Commission, pursuant to Article 126- bis, paragraph 2-a, of the Regulation, in relation to the aforementioned bill.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u59	Mr President, the Economic Planning Committee, the Budget Committee, examined the draft law in title, in accordance with and for the effects of Article 126-a, paragraph 2-a, of the Regulation and after consulting the Government representative, notes that the Update Note to the Document of Economics and Finance (NADEF) 2021, as approved by resolution at the session of the Assembly of 6 October 2021, has declared linked to the completion of the budget maneuver 2022-2024, among others, a draft law with annual competition law 2021. For the purposes of the opinion to the President of the Senate on the measure in title, linked to the fiscal maneuver 2022-2024, it is pointed out first that the deadline of presentation (31 January) is respected; a term which, however, according to established practice, is authorising, with the consequence that the eventual presentation beyond the term would not affect the qualification of connected of the bill. As regards the requirement for compliance with the policy objectives, it is noted that the draft law under consideration is substantially in line with that set out in NADEF of 2021. Moreover, since the measure consists of 32 articles collected in the following 9 chapters (Chapter I finalit; Chapter II removal of barriers to the entry of markets, granting schemes; Chapter III local public services and transport; Chapter IV competition, energy and environmental sustainability; Chapter V competition and health protection; Chapter VI competition, development of digital infrastructures and electronic communications services; Chapter VII competition, removal of burdens on businesses and equal treatment between operators; Chapter VIII strengthening of powers in the field of antitrust activities; Chapter IX appointments to independent authorities), it appears consistent with the parameters of homogeneity of the content and competence of the reference administrations. The provisions also appear to be in conformity with the content of those connected to the public finance maneuver, as governed by Article 10 (6) of the Law of Accounting and Public Finance.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u60	Pursuant to article 126-a, paragraph 2-a, of the Regulation, taking into account the opinion expressed by the 5th Permanent Commission and taking note of the position of the Government, I inform you that the text of the related bill no. 2469 does not contain provisions outside its object, as defined by the legislation in force.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u61	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 2448. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting the general debate was over and the replies of the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government took place. (at 13.39 p.m.) Pursuant to Rule 129 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the examination of the articles of the second section takes precedence over the examination of the first section. We then proceed to the examination of the second section of the draft law (Articles 200 to 219). With the approval of the individual articles, the tables, the general frameworks, the annexes and the lists referred to by the articles themselves are also to be approved and are included in the draft law. I refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Rule 200. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 201. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 202. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 203. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 204. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 205. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 206. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 207. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 208. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 209. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 210. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 211. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 212. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 213. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u64	PAVANELLI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to denounce once again my colleagues from the Forza Italia Group, who continue to play the so-called pianists. It is not possible that, with a large majority, we will continue to vote for colleagues who are absent, who do not come to work in this House, along with all of us. [[Applause. Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u65	Thank you, Senator Pavanelli, may I present it to the Secretary Senators. [[Comments.]] I'm gonna ask Senator Pavanelli to let the secretary senators know which colleagues he was referring to. Colleagues, let's continue with the votes. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 214. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 215. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 216. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 217. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 218. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 218-a. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 219. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). As established by the Conference of Leaders, the discussion of bill No 2448 is suspended and will resume at 6 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 13.46 p.m. and resumed at 6 p.m.) Colleagues, we have news from the relevant government offices that it is not yet possible to proceed with the planned votes. Therefore, pending receipt of the necessary documentation and appreciating the circumstances, it is prudent to postpone the sitting until 8 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 18:01 and resumed at 20:03.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has announced that at its meeting of 21 December 2021 and today's sitting the following elections are not contestable and, by competing in the elected the qualities required by the law, it declares them valid: in the Abruzzo Region: Alberto Bagnaricoi, Gianluca Castaldi, Luciano D'Alfonso, Gabriella Di Girolamo, Nazario Pagano; in the Basilicata Region: Agnes Gallicchio, Arnaldo Lomuti, Salvatore Margiotta, Rocco Giuseppe Moles, Pasquale Pepe, Vito Rosario Petrocelli; in the Calabria Region: Rosa Silvana Abate, Giuseppe Auddino, Fulvia Michela Caligiuri, Bianca Laura Granato, Ernesto Magorno, Clotilde Minasi, Marco Croatti, Vasco Errani, Gabriele Lanzi, Daniele Manca, Maria Laura Mantovani, Michela Montevecchi, Matteo Richetti and Armando Siri; in the Friuli-Venezia Giulia Region: Franco Dals Mastoatti, Gabriele Lombardi, Daniele Mantovani, Michela Montevecchi, Matteo Richetti and Armando Siri; in the Friuli-Venezia Giulia Region in the Region of Sicily: Cristiano Anastasi, Giulia Bongiorno, Antonella Campagna, Davide Faraone, Barbara Floridia, Gabriella Giammanco, Mario Michele Giarrusso, Pietro Grasso, Cinzia Leone, Urania Giulia Rosina Papatheu, Giovanna Petrenga, Vincenzo Santangelo, Renato Schifani, Valeria Carmela Maria Sudano and Fabrizio Trentacoste; in the Region of Tuscany, Caterina Bini, Caterina Biti, Francesco Bonifazi, Laura Bottici, Gregorio De Falco, Gianluca Ferrara, Andrea Marcucci, Barbara Masini, Tiziana Nisini, Achille Totaro and Manuel Vescovi; in the Region of Trentino-Alto Adige; Dieter Steger; in the Region of Umbria: Luca Briziarelli, Nadia Grimani, Leonardi, Stefano Lucidi, Fiammetta Modena and Emma Piando. I acknowledge the Junta's communication and declare the elections validated. You're finally full senators. [[Applause]] I thank you for the attention and celebrations you have given to your validations, of which you absolutely felt the need. On the basis of well-informed news, I suspend the sitting until 9.30 p.m., with reasonable likelihood that things will be okay. (The sitting was suspended at 8.13 p.m. and resumed at 21.34 p.m.) I would like to inform you that, with a reasonable chance of success, the sitting will resume at 10.30 p.m. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 21.34 and resumed at 22.30.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u67	We proceed to the examination of the articles of the first section of the bill. He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Mr D'Incà. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u68	Mr President, the Government submits to the Presidency, pursuant to Rule 161 (3) (b) of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, the text of an amendment entirely replacing the first section of the draft law No 2448 (Budget of the State for the financial year 2022 and the multiannual budget for the three-year period 2022-2024), which includes the amendments approved by the Commission in the reference and on which, having obtained the permission of the Council of Ministers, it intends to raise the question of trust.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u69	In accordance with Rule 161, paragraph 3-b of the Rules of Procedure, the Presidency reserves the right to evaluate the text of the amendment in accordance with Rules 8 and 97 of the Rules of Procedure. I am suspending the sitting, which will resume at 11 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 22.31 a.m. and resumed at 23.10 a.m.) The Presidency considers amendment 1,9000 acceptable, which is entirely a replacement for the first section. He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Mr D'Incà. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u70	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I would like to raise the question of confidence in the approval of amendment 1,9000, which is entirely a substitute for the first section of draft law No 2448 - the state budget for the financial year 2022 and the multiannual budget for the three-year period 2022-2024 - in the text deemed admissible by the Presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u71	The Presidency takes note of the position of the question of confidence on the approval of amendment 1,9000, tabled by the Government, entirely replacing the articles of the first section of the draft law presented by the Government. Pursuant to Rules 102-a and 128 (6) of the Rules of Procedure, it transmits the text of the amendment to the 5th Permanent Commission, which is now authorised to convene. The Conference of Leaders is therefore convened to organise the relevant debate. I'm suspending the session. (The sitting was suspended at 23.11 a.m. and resumed at 23.26 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u72	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u74	VACCARO (M5S). Mr President, we have learned of the disappearance of Senator Bartolomeo Pepe, with whom we have shared so many battles and projects. Bartolomeo Pepe has been a convinced environmentalist, always engaged in ecological battles against the Land of fires and against the spilling of toxic waste in the hinterland of Naples. Over the years he has organized various demonstrations to defend the environment; among the many battles I remember also the request of the institution of a cancer register in the Land of fires. He was also a promoter of environmental issues which led him to inspect several waste disposal sites in Campania. We are truly shocked by what has happened. We hold fast around his family and his loved ones, expressing all our closeness. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u75	I join my condolences, express to the family my personal closeness and the whole Senate and invite all senators to observe a minute's silence. [[The President and the Assembly stand and observe a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u76	I declare open the debate on the question of trust. Senator Steger is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u77	Mr President, today we approve of a forward-looking maneuver, the result of a correct analysis of the situation and useful to lay the foundations for sustained growth even after 2022. We have discussed this several times in recent months: the real challenge is to prevent Italy from returning to the shrivelled growth of the past, but it places itself firmly in the European average, also to ensure the full sustainability of public debt, but not only. The energy crisis, geopolitical tensions, inflationary pressure and pandemic developments are proving to be very real threats. It is therefore a good thing that those interventions that aim to secure economic growth, starting with those that protect the purchasing power for families, with the resources against the expensive bills and the new Irpef rates that have the merit of looking at both the weakest groups and the lowest incomes, but also at the middle class. As well as very important are the measures aimed at the promotion and protection of work, the decontributions for new recruitment, the rule on relocations, where the Ministries of Economic Development and Labour found an effective compromise to protect the national interest, but without affecting the freedom of enterprise. Two elements deserve particular mention: the first is perhaps a unique novelty, namely that more than a billion, about 2.5% of the total resources, are allocated to young people. In this sense, I greatly appreciated the invitation of President Draghi, to ensure that every intervention on pensions always takes into account who will have to retire one day. It is therefore right to protect and build slides for weary work, but for the rest we must always proceed to restore that pact between generations, which has been broken too often, especially on the pension front, The second element is the establishment of a specific fund for mountain development, in the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. Even here, perhaps for the first time, the mountain enjoys a strategic approach, because only in this way can all the nodes and issues be addressed, from environmental protection to the particularities of the production system, to the fight against depopulation. For now it is only a start, because the resources allocated are insufficient and I also hope that with the next measures we will find a solution to leave to our territories the resources advanced by the refreshments for the mountain. The truth is that national measures have come much later than provincial ones and therefore these resources are more necessary than ever, in order to compensate for the efforts of local authorities. On the issues concerning special autonomy, the most important measure, supported also by other Groups, is the one that foresees, for the years 2022-2024 the refreshment in the provincial budgets in case of loss of revenue, because of the reduction Irpef. In particular, the amounts due to each special autonomy should be established by 31 March 2022, in a technical table convened at the MEF, with the participation of territorial representatives. This is a significant rule, not only on the merits, but also because it reaffirms and renews the covenant nature of the relationship between the State and the special autonomy. Equally important is our amendment, which extends the separate taxation regime also to the two federations of sports associations in the province of Bolzano, VSS and USSA. In this way, these sports associations are recognised as providers of sports services. The adoption of our proposal for the establishment of interbranch funds for continuing training, not only at national level, but also at territorial level, is good. This encourages better local coordination of training initiatives, with a broader strategic vision than changes in the economy and the labour market. Among our other amendments, I would also like to mention the extension to the whole 2022 of the exemption of the stamp tax for training traineeships and the authentic interpretation of the registration tax, in the case of the transfer of ownership of areas intended for the construction of facilitated housing, to be allocated to cooperatives and private individuals. I thank the Government and the Commission, with which there has been a fruitful confrontation, just as there has been on other issues of general importance, where we have not failed our contribution, from the remodulation of the IRAP to the building bonuses. In particular, 110% were right to mitigate the regulatory transformation, so as not to penalise families and businesses that had already planned the interventions. Today we are called to close the season of 110% well, a measure that is an anti-cyclical approach, but that cannot and must not become a structural measure, because of the huge costs, the risk of fraud and the increase in prices that is really too high. On the other hand, it deserves a structural dimension the audience of ecobonus between 50 and 65%, which for the type of interventions have minor risks and guarantee momentum to the investments and modernization of the country. Even the extension of the single capital charge, with the extension of payments to 31 March, but I believe that something more could have been done: streetwalkers, shops and gastronomy are the ones that are the first affected by the pandemic. As things stand, I hope that we will take another step towards an extension at least until 30 June. Mr President, this budget law concludes a year in which our economy has shown a great desire to start again; and it has done so even at times when the pandemic wave was hitting hard again. It's a job that, as we know, doesn't end here. The PNRR projects must be launched quickly; there is the Competition Act, which can give a further boost to the competitiveness and dynamism of our production system; and there is, of course, the need to accompany all the companies on which the vital issue of lack of liquidity depends. All games you can win on condition that you win the one against the pandemic. These days data on the keeping of vaccines compared to new variants lead us to a cautious optimism. Perhaps we are not leaving, as we hoped we could say a few weeks ago, but there must be no doubt that science and vaccines are the way forward. Everything else, therefore, from the use of tampons and masks in the open air, to possible new restrictions, must rotate around this pivot: third doses and a serious reflection on the need for 2G also for the workplace, if not even 1G, i.e. the third doses. This will have to be discussed in the next few weeks: it is being discussed at European level and I think it can be the real possibility to eradicate this virus. 2022 will be a very important year. It requires the same determination and unity of intent. The budget law that we adopt today is a very important piece: the road is still long, but it is certainly the right one. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u78	Senator Renzi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u79	Madam President, Minister, representatives of the Government, when voting and discussing a budget law, there are many ways of looking at the text. There are those who take stock of the year: it is an important and positive year. Italy closes 2021 with an increase of more 6.3 percent: it was estimated more than 4 percent. Italy is again the protagonist in Europe: not later than today the President of the Council, Mario Draghi, signed an important article with the French President, Emmanuel Macron, on the rules of the future of the Stability Pact. More generally, our country has returned to the protagonist. A year ago we were in crisis, a year ago we were asking for a breakthrough and the turning point was there. On the other hand, there is the possibility of looking at the substantive measures. Mrs Conzatti has done it very well for us, but my colleague, Mr Steger, said things that we share a few moments ago. However, Madam President, I limit my speech to the fact that it remains in the record, to express a polite but civil dissension about the method that this Government has used for the draft budget law. Ladies and gentlemen, in this House, few people like me can be regarded as people who have not missed the Government's consent this year. I think the Dragon Government has been, is and will be a blessing to Italy. However, amicus Plato, sed magis amica veritas: you don't make a budget law like that. We said that in President Conte's years and we say it here today. It is not acceptable that the budget law should become the budget law of two nights: one night in the Commission, one night in the Chamber. It is not acceptable, but not for the reasons set out in the rules. We share the vast majority of the legislative framework of the law and we will vote with conviction in favour of the issue of trust. It is not acceptable, however, that Parliament should be constantly - and I stress constantly - ignored in government action. [[Applause]] This is a point that concerns everyone and everyone. I look at everyone in this House when I say that we must overcome bicameralism. I lost my job because I wanted to overcome bicameralism. The latter, however, is overcome by a reform of the Constitution, not by an institutional tearing-off, and this is not the case with budgetary laws. If I didn't say so, I wouldn't be serious with what was my position of the past, the present and the future. So let's be clear: I don't know if it's the government of the best, for me it's one of the best governments. This budget law, as a method, is one of the worst laws in the course of republican history, for how it was made. I have said this in order to remain in the proceedings and so that the Minister for Relations with Parliament takes note of a heavy criticism of the point of method that we have made and I also say this because we can learn from mistakes for the future. There are considerations that Parliament leaves to the government and to the institutional debate. We have been saying that more and better must be done on the third dose for weeks. On the first and second doses we were the best in Europe. We were Europe's champions of vaccination in the first two doses, but then we stopped and while the United Kingdom was, three months later, on the call for the second dose, while France was, four months later, on the call for the second dose, we continued, perhaps due to organisational difficulties, to postpone the appointment with the anticipation of the recall. These are points that we then pay in terms of increased infection. I shall end on the point, since I do not make a statement of merit having my colleague Conzatti explained very well the reasons for Italy's appreciation Viva to the bill of budget in the contents; we must have the strength and courage to say with truth that either we listen more and better or we risk losing that extraordinary window of prosperity and positivity that Italy has experienced this year. Madam President, in a month's time Parliament will elect the President of the Republic. Ladies and gentlemen, Parliament elects it, does not elect it from the polls, does not elect it from the editorials of international magazines, does not elect it from the editorialists. It is Parliament's supreme act in common sitting, because it elects the referee for the next seven years. This is the level of institutional and constitutional dignity of Parliament. Any attempt to undermine Parliament's centrality in relation to the ambition, the scale and the scale of its responsibilities is something that somehow makes our institutional system weaker and more fragile. I am thrilled then that you have changed Government, I am excited that the Government has produced results, happy that the economy is better and proud of the fact that it has contributed to this change. With the same frankness, however, a year later, I find myself in one night having to say in this House that this is not how budget laws are done. We will vote for confidence, gentlemen of the Government, be up to the confidence that Parliament gives you. In this passage of the budget law this kind of height is missing, I regret not to say it in front of the Minister of Economy and Finance that I have known as a valiant General Accountant of the State when I had responsibilities of Government. If we had done what was done with this draft budget law, the opposition would not have allowed us to enter the Chamber. Today we think we can and must say that in order to help Italy we need to be more attentive to the respect of the institutions because the form in democracy is substance. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u80	Senator De Carlo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u81	Mr President, I too am starting from Senator Renzi's remarks. On the other hand, we are in opposition and we are bringing you into this House because we believe in the centrality of Parliament. We do not share what you are doing, the method that you have used not only for this manoeuvre, but also for all the other measures that preceded it. If someone falls out of the tree today and realizes how many people have resorted to confidence even on budgetary laws, perhaps it has been somewhere else and not in Parliament in the last period. There is no provision that has not passed through trust. As we denounced in times not suspicious and as our leader, Senator Ciriani, said, in today's intervention on the PNRR, this maneuver arrived with guilty delay and on it was put yet another confidence, among other things in the silence of all the great media. You are all on your side and you are abusing the consensus that you have, not among the people, but between the strong powers and that today allows you to treat Parliament as a slap. We are telling you this because the maneuver has been born so badly that the majority forces have tabled over 6,000 amendments, while the opposition - we - has tabled 786, reduced to just over 70. This shows how we are in this House not to obstruct, but to try to improve the measures that come out of the Council of Ministers. In fact, there are few measures in the Commissions and in this House. We have seen amendments approved not because of your kindness or as a concession, as well as someone who wanted us to believe. It is said that we have even adopted amendments to it. But to what level of democracy have we now arrived, if the opposition must rejoice because the majority approved some of its amendments? Unlike so many of your laughable and ridiculous amendments, which are ugly heirs to the tip law, the amendments we have tabled are acceptable to the great majority of Parliament and have a single purpose, namely not to favour some Members, but simply to improve a maneuver born badly, continued worse and ended worse even. What are the amendments we have tabled to try to improve a maneuver that included zero growth, without a vision and without concrete support for companies? We asked for the principle of "the more hires, the less you pay," but nothing. We helped, trying to bring to the attention themes such as those of occupied houses. Since it is not possible for a person who owns an occupied house to pay taxes, we have proposed the establishment of a fund of EUR 10 million. We fought for the vaccine - very important, but not the only tool to combat this pandemic - to be accompanied by a series of initiatives, such as mechanical ventilation in school buildings. We do not believe that we should give up and that the only instrument available is the vaccine, which is very important, but which - I repeat - cannot be the only form of contrast to the pandemic. We tried to solve the problem of autistics and worked on the superbonus, eliminating those ideological sprays with which this maneuver was born. I think of the ISEE over 25,000 euros and other things that were born from a wrong cultural heritage and a distorted vision of the superbonus norm, which was born to make businesses work and not to favor someone compared to others. We asked for a fund to be set up for the adverse consequences of the vaccine, but this was not possible because today - let us not hide it - many people do not vaccinate because of the fear and confusion that you, with your messages, have generated in public opinion. I cannot believe that in Italy there is a percentage of no vax around 20%. That's not true, we saw with the Law Lorenzin, which is much lower. However, there is a percentage of people who have not been good - you have not been good - to convince about the importance of the vaccine. The establishment of the fund could therefore be the stimulus to say to these people: vaccinated because, in case there are adverse effects, the State will intervene and assume responsibility. We asked that the debitory folders not only be postponed, postponed and postponed. We have called for debt restructuring and installment, to enable businesses and people not only to pay in a few months' time, but also to be able to make installments after the deadline. You have not been able to do all this, because the maneuver is strongly conditioned by the fact that it still persists, is refinanced and even increased the income of citizenship. Here, the income of citizens for more than 8 billion euros heavily affects this maneuver and does it ideologically. No one is against the support of people who do not make it, but you should have taken all the great experience of the municipalities, which for years now distinguish those who really need the income of citizenship from those who could potentially take advantage of it. There were the tools: there was the income of social inclusion (REI), which was not a center-right instrument and which you had established with the center-left governments. It was an instrument that - and I tell you as mayor - worked and allowed us to intervene where there was a situation of need. You centralized everything to the face of fiscal federalism! - with the income of citizenship and you have found yourself with millions of euros data to people who abused it. It is this ideology of yours that today hinders development, restrains businesses, hinders the possibility of cutting down the tax wedge: 8.8 billion euros would have been an excellent resource to cut down the tax wedge, both for workers and for businesses. You, on the other hand, continue to pull straight, to make maneuvers that satisfy everyone a little, but with a logic of the decrease, never to rise. Mr President, an emergency exists objectively in this country. But that emergency is you, you are a government that is not able to meet the needs of its citizens today and you are worse than this pandemic. I wish you, however, a Merry Christmas. I use these words, not "good feasts" or "serene feasts" as I have also heard in these corridors, because it is from here that we must send clear signals, even to those who listen to us, on what are the roots of our millennial Christian civilization. We could not otherwise expect a distant and deaf Europe to understand them, if we cannot understand them either. Happy birthday and Merry Christmas to all. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u82	He's enlisted to speak Senator Missa. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u83	Madam President, Minister, representatives of the Government, the draft budgetary law prepares our country for two new challenges: firstly, to consolidate and make structural economic growth higher than in the past, keeping together and welding growth with social cohesion in a single time; secondly, the connections in the public finance balances of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan and the new European programming determine a new face of Europe, leaving in the past the season of linear cuts, of the reduction of public spending, of the binomial "new taxes on spending" and present to the future the revival of investments, in environmental sustainability, in the ecological, digital and social transition. These are the reasons why we do not want to put flags on individual measures, because the roots of the Democratic Party naturally correspond to this great challenge; an important project for the future of our country and for the future of Europe. Work, equity and environmentally sustainable economic development are not opposed to social cohesion, to the opening of a new Community discourse, to the fight against tax evasion, to the reduction of inequalities. These are central issues, I would say fundamental, in the relationship between the centre and the periphery; they are at the heart of the political agenda of the Government and of our country. The draft budget law before us, ladies and gentlemen, is first and foremost for Italy to restart. In order to share, we have returned centrality and importance to the public administration, to the necessary connections between the State, the Regions and the local authorities, decisive elements also to the legislation unchanged in order to give full implementation to the challenge of Europe and to the full use of resources. Senator Renzi has placed a crucial issue in order to restore centrality to Parliament: our natural legislative and steering function has tended to get lost in recent decades in the face of excessive use of the decree of urgency. However, let us be clear, ladies and gentlemen, never, as in a pandemic, has the use of the decree proved indispensable in order to go through and overcome the pandemic crisis. [[Applause]] At the same time, during the discussion on the draft budget law, we discussed various economic measures of equal strategic importance: I am referring to the National Recovery and Resilience Plan and the reforms necessary to accompany the country outside the pandemic and to allow Italy to restart. Obviously there is, there is and we need to look for new working methods. We must understand that there are also legislative requirements to be corrected: the timing of the draft budget law inevitably suffers from the passage of the European dimension of our budgetary law. The preliminary budget document is presented to Europe at times which are probably incompatible with a double reading. We must work on existing legislation to correct the rules if we are to actually restore that central role to Parliament, once we have come out of the pandemic crisis, in the reduction of the urgent decree, which cannot be excessive, but must put our country back on the right legislative track. That is why, let us be clear, there is confidence in Italy, despite the pandemic crisis not being behind us, and today's data also show us an emergency still present and a commitment still necessary to overcome this pandemic crisis. There is confidence in Italy, among Italian families and businesses. There is confidence in Italy in Europe, because there is a growing propensity to invest and the recovery of public and private investment is a very important way to consolidate economic growth. But above all, Madam President, let us abandon the presumption of the two times: of a first time necessary to build growth and produce wealth and of a second time to redistribute the wealth produced for social cohesion and to combat poverty and loneliness. If we can relaunch investment and make the best use of the 320 billions between PNRR and European programming, restoring centrality and efficiency to public administration, we can finally design inclusive growth, which does not leave people, workers, young people and families alone, but prevents loneliness, effectively responding to poverty. We do not know an alternative way to reform, if the reforms meet again the popular dimension, that is the consensus of the citizens and will not be represented by internal artifices, far from the popular dimension. That is why it is a bill of budget that does not ask but gives, which devotes more than 8 billion to the reduction of taxes. We are comfortable in this strategy, because the reform of the Irpef has also safeguarded progressivity, has avoided flattening and inequalities and, above all, has maintained the fundamental principles that characterize our tax system. Progressivity is not a trivial issue, it is not technical engineering, but it is an element of fairness and justice to safeguard the principle of the most earning, the more it participates in the costs to ensure public health and public education. [[Applause]] It was time to make an important choice in the reform of the Irpef on the middle class. We do not want to avoid this reflection, after introducing citizenship income, after working to introduce measures into citizenship income that we consider further to be correct, because poverty dwells in the territorial dimension and does not resolve with a credit card, because poverty requires a job of associationism, volunteering, local authorities and we do not give up the idea that changes are not needed. However, resources allocated to citizenship income until a few years ago did not have sufficient budget chapters to address poverty. That is why it was right to intervene prevalently in the middle class. That is why it is essential to reconstruct the dimension of the middle class, promoting internal consumption, avoiding pushing towards new forms of poverty the centre of gravity of our country, that is, the ability to produce wealth and transfer it in the domestic consumption and growth of our country. It was important to safeguard the tax wedge and invest in reducing labour costs, as it was important to eliminate IRAP in a particular way for the many VAT matches, for the small business, for self-employment: an extraordinary request that we finally bring in the conditions to represent an important lintel of our economy. That is why this trust must not be wasted. The country demands stability, rigour and responsibility. We must continue to work to bring Italy out of the pandemic dynamic and, above all, we must allow this country not to miss the challenge of the appointment with European investments, with the digital, environmental and economic transition that - let's say it now - needs a plan regulating the economic development of this country. Attention, ladies and gentlemen, the transition can also push thousands and thousands of workers into forms of loneliness, thousands and thousands of businesses into a future that can be more complex than the past. That is why - I am proud to say this - we felt it important to work, together with the whole majority, to put the subject of knowledge, school, education, active policies and training back at the centre. There will be no future for this country if we do not represent and resume in our hands the ground of training, of school, of a quality school for all, of training courses necessary to accompany the transition. Otherwise, the transition, even the digital, environmental and social one, could frighten and re-introduce possible conflicts in this country if we fail to define well the articulations of the new industrial development, of a new plan of industrial development of our country. We will have to reposition well the investment in knowledge, skills, coming out of a form that too often also on social shock absorbers is of a welfare type and not of a promotional type, active, formative. Here is the importance of the reform of social shock absorbers and the importance of this budget law that does not leave workers alone; that is why we have considered it important to put work at the centre as a fundamental element in building a future for this country and to plan this future. There are these important elements in the budget law. As I said before - and I conclude, Mr President - these elements are fundamental, for us natural, in support of the Government, in the responsibility to look at our country in the general interest and, above all, to invest in new forms so that young people return to trust in the institutions, have access to work that rewards their skills and does not exploit them and uses without guaranteeing important, regular employment contracts... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u84	She's registered to speak Senator De Petris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u85	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we know perfectly well that the public finance manoeuvre for the three-year period 2022-2024 has been a very complex and complex work, so it comes to this House after a debate that has certainly been tiring, but also very rich and has also made many contributions in the parliamentary passage. I do not want to escape the issues that have just been raised, which have emphasized - I am thinking of Senator Renzi's intervention - the marginalization, in fact, of Parliament; I have already recalled them this morning in an explanation of vote on the decree-law on the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. It is a matter of great importance and we cannot - Mr President, I would like to say to you who, on several occasions, also reminded the Government of the need to give back voice, strength, role and prerogatives to Parliament - absolutely neglect this element. Unfortunately, the problem is that this marginalization - alas - comes from afar and risks becoming more and more consolidated. The decree of urgency and the decree-laws that are voted on with the questions of trust have become, as in the last legislature, an element almost of practice through which the work of the Government itself is expressed. I would also like to make a clear premise here. In other words, I do not want to hide, because it is always good to say things, the fact that this was clear - and also in this House we have to take stock of this - when we asked the Government not to table amendments on relocations and the honorary judiciary, but to articulate this proposal by means of a decree-law. We did not ask to follow an iter, but to issue a decree-law for a very simple reason: because I believe that on a measure like that on relocations it was absolutely necessary the work and the possibility on the part of the Senate and the House not only to say their own, but to make changes, which are also necessary. I am saying that we have tabled amendments and we believe that this rule is certainly a step forward, because we had absolutely nothing at all before, but I believe that at work there was also the sensitivity and the possibility of putting in place measures that have been discussed for a long time also in recent years, in the face of a phenomenon that has been and is as dangerous and complex for Italy as that of relocations. It was perhaps necessary to put in place, and there was the possibility of doing so, a decree-law, to improve it and to make substantial changes in terms of sanctions and the possibility of introducing more effective rules. This is to respond to the many workers who are still struggling at the moment and trying to have a chance of the future. I say to the Government that it is not only and only a question of claiming powers, but there is an absolute need, for a country that is living and still experiencing a time of difficulty, to be able to put in place all the resources, possibilities for meeting and discussions to improve and address the problems we face. This financial manoeuvre takes place at a particular time, because it is true - and certainly it has arrived very late in the examination of the Senate - that it has some expansionary elements. It is certainly in a positive phase because we have very important signs (let's think about growth over 6%), but we also know that it is a passing moment, because we are still in a delicate phase. Unfortunately we have a resumption of the pandemic, we cannot ignore it, so we cannot say that we are already safe. We have not yet brought the country to safety, so we must have the ability to consolidate the important and fundamental elements of growth that have been recorded, even beyond the forecasts, and to intervene again strongly with other measures. We may need to speed up vaccination even more, but these are the needs that we face today. We're not out. We must not sit down, because we are absolutely not out of the critical moment. At the same time, this budgetary manoeuvre has many elements and I would like to say this as a demonstration of the fact that parliamentary work is fundamental, because we are not just here to press the buttons, but to make proposals, to articulate them, to put in place the experiences and work of the territories and of all those who can contribute. Parliament's work has certainly produced a lot of substantial changes and improvements, and I will come back to that, but at the same time we know that this must accompany the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. This is the bet we made and believed long before this Government and this large majority were born: we believed that the way out of such a difficult situation, such as that of the pandemic crisis, was to throw the heart beyond the obstacle - Europe has given full reason to the work we have done and to the demands we have made - and to aim for the ecological and digital transition, bringing together ecological transition and cohesion. We need to work on these two axes, in order to get the whole of Europe out of a difficult situation together, facing the pandemic crisis and responding to the other major crisis and the other major emergency that we often fill our mouths with, unless we forget it, that it is the environmental crisis and the fight against climate change. This pushes us forward, thinking about what the project must be for the country and for the future. The maneuver to our examination accompanies the National Recovery and Resilience Plan and must support it on these two fundamental axes. We have defined this and this is the path we want to take, pushing the country along a path that is green and fair and that addresses the deep theme of inequalities in our country, which have grown with the pandemic. We've hit it, we've got measures in place, but there's still a lot to do. This situation of suffering often does not emerge, but we must not think that it is abject, because the pandemic has left many problems. At the same time we have to face it by doing a great job of transforming the country. It is not just the reforms we are announcing that are enough, but we need to think about this future and build it. Here there are still misunderstandings and knotties, which sooner or later we will have to dissolve, in a country - I am thinking, for example, of the ecological transition - that for thirty years no longer has industrial policies and that no longer has an idea of industrial policies. So pushing on the ecological transition means having the ability to put on the field, to give lines, to build, to give incentives and at the same time to take on what could be the costs, from this point of view. With the maneuver on our exam we work very well on the school, but there is still a lot to do. We have given answers in this maneuver on the environment and on the social front. I am thinking of the work we have done on Social Bee and internships. Speaking of young people, we have done something important to prevent the distorted use of internships. Our young people have value, have studied and deserve not to be exploited, but to make a leap forward, because they are our future. The important thing is to understand that there are no half-measures: today we have the need and the duty to do so, because in order to get the country out of the crisis, we must direct it clearly and firmly towards an ecological and green transition, but that is just. We must therefore ensure that this transition can bring into play all the elements of social cohesion that the country deserves. Our country is a great country, it has great potential and on this we must build together the project for the future. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u86	He's enlisted to speak Senator Damiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u87	Mr President, Mr Alberti Casellati, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, as a year ago we were in this House approving a budget law in the midst of a pandemic wave, which in recent days and weeks is putting pressure on our health and economic system. Compared to last year, however, there is a very important difference: this time we have raised a wall of defense, which is protecting us from the most serious consequences of this wave, of this new variant of the virus. In this year and on this occasion we have 80% of Italians immunized with the double dose. It is thanks to this great sense of responsibility of the Italians - which we must thank - that today we manage to deal with this new variant with relative tranquility. Our vaccination campaign is now recognised as a model at European and global level. Human life and economy are saved by mass vaccination: we must always remember it. We at Forza Italia have absolutely not hesitated, we have never had any doubt, from the first moment, supporting these measures, which pursue the main objective, the noblest objective, which is that of the public health of Italians. It is from the establishment of this Government, after the appointment of General Son, that that change of step has taken place regarding a vaccination campaign that was struggling to leave. The Italians understood that without solidarity and without a common path there was no possibility of combating the virus. Economic data are also very important right now. The pre-Covid-19 data economy continues to run. So, the economic leap to the levels prior to the economic emergency continues. We all know GDP figures: with growth of over 6%, we are in an expansionary phase. This expansionary phase also has a positive impact on employment data. If, in fact, we see the data for the last quarter, we finally have a plus 0.4%. It is clear that the positive economic forecasts for 2022 are based on the continuing growth situation, but also on a situation that we have already created in this year of no new restrictions. We can't close the country anymore, we can't afford it. As a result, we cannot lower our guard at this particular moment. That is why, at this time, it is necessary to continue pushing on the third doses and it is important to continue to erect this wall that protects Italians and protects the economy. [[Applause]] Therefore, we need an important framework of health security, in order to have a very solid economic strategy of restarting. I repeat this once again, as I have done in other interventions in the past: from the beginning, Forza Italia has worked to combine and guarantee the country health security, protection of work and adequate refreshments. We were the first to ask, some time ago, 100 billion of budgetary deviation to help our country: and we were right, because then of budgetary deviations and aid we gave even more. We therefore claim that we are consistent in the demand for measures that go in the direction of families and businesses that have been overwhelmed by this emergency. We do this through measures that see the cutting and postponement of taxes and concrete aid. For ten months now, with the government in office, our contribution has become effective, decisive. In so many rules of this budget law there is the trademark of Forza Italia imprinted and I go to denounce them one by one. The Irpef: after fifty years, we finally have a remodulation of the rates today; the Irap: we asked for 10 billion, we got eight, but today 850,000 companies, companies and individuals, who have an independent income, will no longer pay for the Irap. It is a start and we are committed to doing even more in the coming months. [[Applause]] The middle class had been eliminated from bonuses and aid. We have not done so much: instead, with the cut of the rates today we help, finally, the middle class to recover that purchasing power that has lost in all these years. TOSAP: It is important to suspend for the next first few months, not making our businesses pay for the use of public land. Then we get to the charts. The postponement to 30 September 2022 of the payment of the folders was due, at no cost to the State, but we had to do it for the Italians. This was a direct request for us, which we won and got. Security, police forces, appropriations and resources, recruitment and legal protection. This has also been a battle of recent weeks, and we have also been right about this. Building bonuses have given so much to our economy, we had to continue on them; 4.4 billion in the coming years to help Italians and especially on the house, a particular investment of our Italians. With regard to electricity bills and gas, again in this case we had asked for a guarantee fund to help Italians and businesses, we got it and realized, going in the right direction. That is why there are so many measures that we have put in this financial maneuver and we claim them from a political point of view. These are measures for reducing the tax burden, for businesses, for health, for families and for social policies. As a parliamentary group, we have worked on our demands and our objectives, and we have succeeded in many things. This is how I start at the end of my speech because we have really worked so hard, we are also very tired and we face yet another night after the night sessions of the Budget Committee. It has been a particular year, difficult and very complex, but the path of the Government, declined in the sign of unity, of the spirit of cohesion and of the pursuit of common interest in the fight against the virus, often desired and indicated, with great political intuition, by our President Silvio Berlusconi [[Applause]] It has made it possible to achieve the results of a budget law which, as we know, is the fundamental political act to which we believe we have made a great contribution in the spirit of service, wearing all of us, the blue jersey. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u88	Senator Tosato is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u89	Mr President, the League's view of budgetary law is basically positive. It is regrettable that the timing was too tight due to a late approval of the maneuver by the Council of Ministers and the conjunction with the discussion in the House of Deputies of the PNRR. There was therefore difficulty in analysing the amendments and proposals put forward by the various parliamentary groups of majority and opposition. However, we find ourselves in the content of this budget law. The main reason is due to the choice and the possibility of reducing the tax burden; 8 billion reduction for us is an important signal and finally, for the first time, Europe has allowed our country to use deficits to lower taxes. [[Applause]] It is a precedent, a conquest of this Government, certainly thanks to the authority of Mario Draghi. Let us remember that the deficit that we have been forced to use in the past year was related almost exclusively to restors, to support maneuvers and therefore not to the reduction of the fiscal pressure, but to chase the damage created to our economy by the rise of the pandemic. It is a positive turning point that represents for the League also a conquest. This is our position. I must also say that, in choosing how to reduce the tax burden, the League has been the protagonist in the negotiation within the majority. We are very pleased [[Applause]] of the choices that have been made because they fully reflect the program of the League, its beliefs and its assessments. We are witnessing a reduction in the Irpef for employees, pensioners, self-employed workers, craftsmen and traders. In particular, we are witnessing the abolition of the IRAP for self-employed workers, individual firms and family businesses. That was the approach we believed in and that was ultimately chosen by the entire majority and the government. Important actions also concern the attempt to stem the negative effects of expensive bills and expensive energy. The government has already allocated, in the final phase of this year, important resources - almost 4 billion euros - for the reduction of these increases and will also invest in this budget law for next year. This is our greatest concern, also highlighted by the fact that it is our belief that this is not a temporary bubble, but that there is a risk of a structural increase. As for the other positive measures, he put order in the matter of superbonus. We believe that these measures should have a natural development over a number of years and that they cannot be interrupted halfway through. [[Applause]] The amendments adopted therefore go in this direction. The citizen cannot be left in the continuous uncertainty of approved and subsequently amended or repealed rules. This is one of the serious problems of Italian parliamentary activity, which does not give certainties to the citizens. With the amending action carried out in the Senate and a debate that has concerned all political forces, we have put in order and given an acceptable perspective to carry out this type of initiatives, which certainly have a positive effect on companies working in a strategic sector such as the building sector. We have been granted an exemption for another three months from TOSAP: this is one of our objectives and has been achieved. An important tourism and automotive fund of EUR 150 million has also been set up. As a League we have obtained an autism fund of 27 million euros, thanks to our personal commitment and by Matteo Salvini. We saved the third sector thanks to an amendment which provides for the absence of taxation on volunteering with regard to VAT. In addition, EUR 5 million has been provided for compensation for fragile workers following a battle that the League has waged up to the last moment in the Budget Committee and which has led to the adoption of an amendment by Mr Augussori. The figure is certainly inadequate, but it has sanctioned a change from the past, when this project was a taboo and could not carry it forward. The adoption of this amendment gives us the hope that we can invest more in this direction. [[Applause]] Until the last moment there was the insistence of the League and Undersecretary Molteni, in particular, that important resources be allocated for the new recruitments in the field of the Forces of Order and the Fire Department and for the legal protection against these servants of the State, which we must thank and respect and which have absolutely inadequate staff. We also wanted protection for producers of artistic ceramics and Murano glass compared to the expensive bills we talked about earlier. They are all interventions that are found in the objectives and parliamentary activity of the Lega Group in the budget. However, we leave ourselves with a great question mark. With this maneuver we have managed to owe not for support and refreshment, but almost exclusively for the reduction of taxes and a revival of our economy. However, we must deal with the reality that tells us that, precisely in these days and hours, there is a very worrying revival of the pandemic, despite Italy has been the protagonist of a vaccination campaign that, with the birth of the Government Dragons and the work of General Son, marked an evolution and a change of pace compared to the past. We are convinced that this campaign was essential to ensure that this year, in September, October and November, we did not have to see the closure of our activities. As we have seen, we have guaranteed work for all economic operators and freedom of movement for our citizens. Compared to a year ago much has changed. The vaccine is not the panacea of all the evils against the pandemic, but it has certainly been able to stem, limit the damage of the pandemic and allow our economic system to operate and our citizens to work freely. The revival, however, worries us; we would not want to see the closing season again. It is therefore not necessary to lower the guard, also because the state accounts could not support a new season of refreshments and support due to the closures of the activities. It closes a year when we have made progress. We are convinced that the choice of the League to be part of this Government was a difficult bet. We are in fact within the government where very different political forces try to cooperate in the interest of the country, but, as I said, we are convinced that it was a right choice, because many of the results that we have achieved in this budget law reflect our approach. Without the League to the Government, the tax cuts would probably have taken other directions. [[Applause]] So the sacrifice of our movement to be part of such a heterogeneous government is largely rewarded, because we are convinced that we have made the citizens' interest. There remains one last concern, which is that of the debitory folders. On this point, unfortunately, we have not been able to give answers to citizens who are still in serious difficulty; not to citizens who do not want to pay taxes, but to citizens who are unable to pay them. There has been no adequate response on this subject, despite our efforts, our attempts. The postponement is not the answer. We need more courageous operations to scrap folders, otherwise we risk throwing too many families into despair, putting too many activities out of play. This, I believe, will be the commitment that we will have to face next year and the League will surely be the protagonist in this battle. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u90	He's enlisted to speak Senator Dell'Olio. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u91	Mr President, members of the Government, fellow senators, fellow senators, the 2022 budget bill is an expansive intervention, in the wake of all the measures taken during the Count II Government, in order to cope with the pandemic crisis. It is a maneuver that aims to satisfy the strong demand for public goods, made even stronger in this dramatic hairpin of our history, of goods such as work, health, education, environment, social protection, attention to the home. It is an expansive intervention, I want to emphasize it strongly, strongly characterized by the measure that more than any other is generating a positive impact on the revival of the country, on the growth of GDP, on the generation of jobs, on the achievement of environmental objectives in terms of energy saving. I am referring to the 110% superbonus, designed by the 5 Star Movement and approved by the Count II Government in May 2020. [[Applause]] I will not be here to list all the research centres, public institutions, observers who have certified, numbers in hand, the success of the superbonus. Let me, if anything, point out that it is not true that it is only because of the superbonus that the prices of some materials are growing. It is not true that only the superbonus generated fraud for EUR 4 billion. As for the first point, we are counting on the Government to know that the increase in the prices of certain materials is distinguishing many other European countries, which certainly do not have the superbonus, but which perhaps would like to have it, given the words of praise of Commissioners Timmermans and Simson. [[Applause]] As for the second point, it must be explained that the revenue agency itself had to correct the figure, explaining that the 4 billion relate to fraud detected in respect of all building and energy bonuses. What is more, those 4 billion refer to tax credits that are being audited, which is quite different from saying that they are all the result of fraud. [[Applause]] Having made this necessary clarification, it is a fact that even with this budget law the Movimento 5 Stars confirms itself the political force most oriented to the protection of that property so precious for the Italians that it is the home. With the superbonus, but also thanks to the confirmation of the other building bonuses, about which the Movimento 5 Stars has strongly wanted the recovery of the mechanism of the cedibility of the tax credits, we are protecting the houses of the Italians, we are improving them, we are making them more energy efficient, we are increasing the value of it; within this philosophy there are all the improvements that, thanks to us, have been made to the superbonus and have been widely discussed by colleagues. There are also other novelties introduced by the 5-star Movement, such as the fund to support cohousing for the elderly alone. Of course, it was not easy to do all this, it was not easy to analyze the draft budget law, which arrived only in mid-November here at the Senate. [[Applause]] It was not easy to work knowing that the MEF was committed until about two weeks ago on the PNRR and could not analyse our amendments. It has not been easy to have a restricted economic perimeter available to finalise sacred parliamentary proposals. In short, it has not been easy to work on this draft budget law, in a condition which would be a euphemism to define a strong compression of parliamentary times and prerogatives. [[Applause]] And it is only because of the sense of responsibility of all of us, of all political forces, that we are now able to carry out the draft budget law. However, it is correct to note that the working mechanism that saw the creation of shared tables between political groups and government was able to bring us to a shared synthesis on many issues and the political groups present here, all of them, cooperated to get to the result. But there is much more in the maneuver: there is an intervention of lowering the Irpef rates with a contextual reduction in their number, as they had not been seen for a long time. The result is a substantial cut in taxes that looks to the middle class, put to the test by the total absence of signals over the years, but at the same time also to the lower income groups, moreover already benefited last year from the reduction of the tax wedge operated by the Government Count II. Again on the fiscal issue, there is the historic zeroing of IRAP on more than 800,000 small taxpayers, who from next year will finally be able to do without a tax that has always created duplication and administrative difficulties. We were able to confirm other important measures of the Count II Government, extending for another three months the exemption from payment of TOSAP for public establishments such as bars and restaurants, among the most penalized by the pandemic crisis, and we gave a further breath of oxygen to taxpayers, bringing from two to six months the time to pay the debitory records that will be notified in the first three months of next year. In the bill we have defended and strengthened, with another billion euros, the income of citizenship, which has been so important in laying out a network of protection around fragile categories, such as children, disabled and elderly, who without this instrument would have paid a very high price in front of the Covid. [[Applause]] The income of citizenship has been praised, even in recent months, by all the main bodies dealing with poverty, from Caritas to Save the Children, to the Community of Sant'Egidio. Caritas, for example, defined the measure as a human promotion tool. With the maneuver, we also provide an answer for the benefit of families and businesses that are being tightened by the increase in bills, triggered by the increase in the cost of energy. The funds in the final text have almost doubled, up to 4 billion, all pending a comprehensive reform of the system of bills, which in our proposal must lead to a structural reduction of costs. On this, as on other issues, considering that we are not yet out of the pandemic, we must be prepared to allocate more resources next year. We must be ready for a further budget deviation, because for us to help a family of elderly people, to help a mom or a dad with a disabled child, to help those who have been out of work, was, is and will always be a good debt. [[Applause]] For health there are 4 billion more to strengthen the National Health Fund and to support the phase of contrast to the pandemic with an intervention that, in the wake of what has been done by the Count Governments, finally reverses that odious trend of definancing of health that has produced such negative effects, made dramatically clear by the explosion of the pandemic. We have managed to make our Transition 4.0 three-year plan to encourage companies in the green and digital transition, and we have increased the funds for our export, which thanks to our measures is marking a record year. Italy is taking a path of revival testified by the strong growth that the economy will experience this year, with a GDP now given by all the observers to more than +6 percent. The credit is all of our companies, of our workers, of our families, of the resilience of a country that has been able to resist and get back up. The 2022 maneuver aims to reward this effort by trying to provide all the tools to consolidate the positive effects we are seeing. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u92	I declare closed the debate on the question of trust posed by the Government. I am suspending the sitting until 1.30 p.m., pending the opinion of the Budget Committee. (The sitting was suspended at 00.42 a.m. and resumed at 1.42 p.m.) Colleagues, another 20 minutes of patience. We are awaiting the opinion of the Budget Committee. Twenty minutes that, hopefully, should be the last. I'm suspending the session. (The sitting was suspended at 1.42 p.m. and resumed at 2 p.m.) I do not have good news, because the President of the 5th Commission still needs time. I would suspend not for half an hour, as President Pesco asked, but for five minutes, inviting the President to come to this House to report. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 2 p.m. and resumed at 2 p.m.) I call Mr Pesco to speak in order to inform the House of how much time it needs and the reasons for this delay in "slicing and biting."
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u93	Mr President, we have received a note from the Accounting Office of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance, we have studied it in the Commission, we have made choices on this, and these choices, in order to be translated into an opinion, need time. So, it still takes half an hour.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u94	The question is whether we are able not to keep everyone waiting here and predict a time reasonably close to the right, or if every half hour you need more time. President, we need half an hour. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Otherwise, if you don't make it, you tell us and we'll catch up to tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u97	GARNERO SANTANCHE (FdI). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business. I would just like to say to the Presidency and colleagues that we have been hostage since this afternoon. All the forecasts made today have been disregarded, we move forward with half an hour, one hour, twenty minutes, half an hour. President Pesco, you have not given us any answers. I look at the Presidency, but I would like to know from President Pesco, who has just spoken, without giving any explanation, because he has practically told us nothing. I do not think that, because of the dignity of every member of this House, we can be hostage; so everything is fine, but patience has limits. [[Applause]] We want to know, Mr President, what is next for the night. Are we allowed or is it not democratic to ask this question to the Presidency? We want to know how long you think you're holding us hostage in here without telling us anything, if we can get an answer. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u98	President Pesco asked for another half hour. I believe that what Senator Santanché said, beyond majority and opposition, expresses the discomfort of the senators for this continuous postponement, which at 2 o'clock at night made us stay here basically without ever working. But I think all we can do is wait this half hour. If anyone wants to intervene, I'll give them the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u99	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u101	AIROLA (M5S). I just want to point out that we're all tired, it's true, and the text came very late. However, out of respect for the Budget Commission and its President, who have worked all night to finish this job in time, it seems to me to be out of place now, at 2.30 a.m., to me. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u102	We took note of your official defense. He finally got the applause.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u103	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u104	You've already intervened, Senator Santanchè.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u105	GARNERO SANTANCHE (FdI). A point of order, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Attention, so much at 2.35 a.m. we resume: who wants to intervene now can ask and can do so, or is there a veto to make someone intervene on the order of business? You have the right to do so. GARNERO SANTANCHE (FdI). Mr President, the Brothers of Italy Group makes a point of order: we propose that the continuation of the debate with the vote be done tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u106	I will inform the President of the request of Brothers of Italy, because it would involve the need for a group leader. Let us do the following, Senator: I advise the President, but taking into account that we have given half an hour. We have already decided that at 2.35 a.m. we are waiting for the 5th Commission. In the meantime, there is a request that I make to the President. [[Brusio.]] Don't get upset because we're not wasting time. It seems to me that time is the same to be sitting here dangling or intervening. DI NICOLA (M5S). Mr. President, you said to update us to tomorrow... No, I didn't say that. DI NICOLA (M5S). She said so. Tomorrow is December 25th, Christmas, and I hope you will be here. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Christmas can be done anywhere. Are there any other surgeries besides this brilliant one? Are there any other surgeries? Do you want to intervene again? You want to know what I'm gonna do tomorrow? DI NICOLA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to help you because I see you a little disoriented. Today is 24 December and, if you say "tomorrow," tomorrow is 25 December. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. That's what you meant? He's so good. Thanks for the suggestion. I am suspending the sitting, which will resume at 2.35 a.m. (The sitting was suspended at 2.13 p.m. and resumed at 2.35 a.m.) Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion of the 5th Permanent Commission has arrived, pursuant to Rules 102-a and 128 (6) of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, whose text will be distributed. Since the question of trust was raised before the opinion, I would ask the representative of the Government to give an opinion on the matter.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u107	Mr President, the Government accepts the first part, which are conditions within the meaning of Article 81 of the Constitution, and also the conditions on the observations: both the comments on the observations and the conditions. For the Government the opinion is fine and, therefore, the comments will also be included in the text of the maxi amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u108	We now proceed to the vote on amendment 1,9000 (correct text), tabled by the Government, entirely replacing the first section of bill No 2448, on the approval of which the Government has put the question of trust. Senators Steger, Conzatti, De Carlo, Manca, De Petris, Bernini, Tosato and Dell'Olio renounce their oral explanations of vote and are authorized by the Presidency to deliver the written text to the proceedings.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u109	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u110	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u111	PARAGO (Misto-IPI-PVU). Mr President, if the form and substance and form is the humiliation of Parliament, then the substance is the humiliation of the productive categories. Today with the PNRR you have trapped Italy, handing it over to financial globalization. Today you have also begun to destroy the bathing sector, artfully assembling the comedy of races and auctions, using too low concession fees. It was enough to adapt them, but you want to give our beaches to large groups. The concessions are not touched when - for example - there is the mineral water business, with very high profits and very low fees. What about the money you gave to the Benettons in Atlantia? Shame on you! Talk about the expensive electricity and gas bills, but don't do anything, because micro-enterprises and SMEs will pay, net of the "blah blah blah," expensive bills and you will not affect at all. Bet on the building superbonus, but don't you notice that small and medium-sized enterprises are jumping into the chain, for billing, for the DURC, for the banks. The superbonus will beat in the head, because raw materials cost more and more and there is also scarcity of the same and this will put in trouble a good idea. This maneuver is chaotic, like the method that brought her here. You are, moreover, masters of confusion. You wanted to save Christmas: you're putting in lightweight lockdown. Pharmacies are assaulted. On the green passes there is great confusion, chaos reigns over the duration of the sera. I mean, more than a maneuver, it seems to me another deception against the Italians.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u112	I refer to the vote on amendment 1,9000 (correct text), tabled by the Government, entirely replacing the articles of the first section of the bill n. 2448, on the approval of which the Government raised the question of trust. Pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the matter of trust will take place by roll-call vote. Each senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Mantero is drawn by lot.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Mantero. MARGIOTTA, secretary, make the appeal. (In the course of the voting operations, the Presidency shall take the place of - 3.10 a.m. - and - 3.15 a.m. -). PRESIDENT. - The debate is I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of amendment 1,9000 (correct text), presented by the Government, entirely replacing the first section of bill No 2448, on the approval of which the Government has put the question of trust: [[Senators present 231 Senators voting 231 Majority 116 Favorable 215 Contrars 16]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, since all the articles in the draft law have been examined, the Government will now have to draw up the corresponding Note of Variations, which will be sent to the Senate as soon as possible. The 5th Permanent Commission is now authorized to convene for the examination of this document and then to report back to the Assembly. Pending the presentation by the Government of the Note of changes to the budget, I suspend the session. (The sitting was suspended at 3.20 p.m. and resumed at 3.52 p.m.) Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance presented the Note of changes to the state budget for the financial year 2022 and the multi-annual budget for the three-year period 2022-2024, with which the Government introduced in the text of the bill and annexed tables the changes resulting from the determinations adopted by the Senate when examining the first section. This note was referred to the 5th Permanent Commission. The rapporteur has the floor to report on the conclusions adopted by the 5th standing Commission on the Note of Variations.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u113	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this Note of variations to the state budget for the financial year 2022 and for the three-year period 2022-2024 has been drawn up in order to incorporate into the draft budget law, on the one hand, the effects of the amendments approved by the Senate of the Republic and, on the other hand, the effects resulting from the conversion into Law No 215 of 2021 of Decree-Law No.146 of 2021. In relation to the above, this Note updates the accounting values of the former Article 216, General Total of Expenditure, Draft Budget Act and includes amendments to the general summary frameworks for the three-year period 2022-2024 in terms of competence and cash, to the estimates of revenue, Table 1, and to all estimates of expenditure by the Ministries, Tables 2 to 16. The amendments to the relevant technical annexes by chapters are also produced accordingly. The prospectuses are organized by voting units and the technical annexes by chapters present the entire budget of the State, with evidence of the units and chapters that have changed due to the amendments to the bill. Changes related to the amendments adopted are set out in appropriate columns, separately for Section 1 and Section 2. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u114	Never a Note of Variations was so applauded. We shall now proceed to the vote on the Note of Variations. With the approval of the Note of Variations, the text on which the Senate pronounced itself in the previous stages of the procedure, in reference to both the articles of the bill and the annexed tables, will be modified accordingly. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the Note of variations. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of bill No 2448, as a whole, in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. [[v. Annex B. Applause]] . Colleagues, having had to proceed to the seizure of signs of which they took photos, and having no more strength, to wish you Merry Christmas recycling the same sign that I seized immediately. Happy holidays, everyone.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u115	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-12-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-391.ana.u116	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 11 January 2022, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 3.57 p.m. on 24 December.)
