ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.06 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Nisini, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u4	[[The President and the Assembly stand.]] Ladies and gentlemen, today is Memory Day, the anniversary that every year allows us to honor the victims of the Shoah. I would therefore like to address, on my personal behalf and on behalf of the whole Senate, a sincere thought of closeness and friendship to the Jewish community in Italy and abroad. Seventy-six years ago the opening of the gates of Auschwitz revealed to the world the horror of Jewish extermination. The pain of genocide is still alive in us, because that evil, inflicted on women and men without guilt, is a universal evil, which can never be forgotten. Memory is the only way to overcome the darkness of indifference. Only memory can make us really aware; aware of the past and aware of the future we want. Knowing history is not enough: you need to understand it, understand it, feel it in its terrifying reality. Only in this way does the memory of what has been become inspiration to overcome indifference, never to turn to the other side, to fight always and in any case in defense of the supreme good of life and human dignity. Freedom, democracy and equality are the legacy that the Shoah has entrusted to us, they are a legacy that must be cultivated every day, fighting against the many pitfalls existing, building solid antidotes against the germs of discrimination, violence and oppression. Each of us can do much to make remembrance our collective consciousness and to make that consciousness always vigilant interpreters of today. This is the task that the Day of Memory entrusts us and I am sure that, especially young people, they will be our best witnesses of peace. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u7	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, we have just commemorated the Shoah and the memory of the extermination, and I would therefore like the Presidency to play a leading role in promoting the visit to the extermination camps, of which Auschwitz Birkenau is one of the most famous. Mr President, you mentioned the importance of seeing and knowing, but I would add that even breathing that air and seeing those places is an experience that enters into us, never abandons us again and consolidates the memory of the perhaps most heinous act done against humanity. I would therefore ask the Presidency to be the bearer of this request too, for the organization of visits, especially for young people, as you said, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, thank you and we will take your request into account.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, today I received the following letter: In accordance with Rules 14, 15 et seq. of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, we would like to inform you that the new parliamentary group called "Europeists-MAIE-Democratic Centre" has now been set up. The members of the Group are Senators Buccarella, Cario, Causin, De Bonis, De Falco, Fantetti, Marilotti, Merlo, Rossi and Rojc, who signed this letter. The assembly of the Group elected Senator Fantetti and vice president Senator Causin.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u11	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, I thought about how I could use these few minutes at my disposal for the celebration of the hundred years since the birth of the Italian Communist Party. Three minutes are infinitely few, to collect its historical value and are even ingenious, if we look at its breadth and the richness of its long life. However, three minutes can suffice to express, from my point of view, some clear judgements on the choices that that great party made, in two moments that resemble the historical moment that we live today, in this pandemic, because they fully express the necessity and value of the collective effort. Italy would not have been a Democratic Republic after June 2, 1946, if the Communist Party had not deployed all its forces to win the referendum without ambiguity. (You hear whistling sounds.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, I hear whistles: it doesn't really seem appropriate. Mr Ferrari (PD). Italy, the Italian State would not have beaten the Red Brigades and the fight against terrorism without the decisive support of the Communist Party. I have never been - certainly for reasons of age - enrolled in the Communist Party; however I feel that I belong to that feeling, if only because I was only two months old when my father decided to move from Pavia to Rome for several months to attend the famous "Frattocchie" (Frattocchie)... [[Comments. You keep hearing whistling sounds.]] Mr. President...
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u12	I have already called my colleagues back, but I cannot identify the origin of the sounds. Excuse me if I interrupt you, Senator Ferrari, colleagues, at the Conference of the Leaders we decided [[Comments]] Excuse me, I'm talking. Why are you interrupting? Please be courteous. As I was saying, at the Conference of the Leaders we decided unanimously to hold this debate. I therefore do not understand why it is whistling today in the face of a decision that has been unanimous. I would ask you, therefore, to be respectful of the opinions of all. We are in a free Parliament. Please, Senator Ferrari, continue your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Obviously it is not a matter of opinion: the point is that, unfortunately, the stupidity of this House is no longer waterproof. [[Applause]] As I said, I have never been enrolled in the Communist Party, if only for reasons of age. However, I feel that I belong to that feeling, if only because I was only two months old when my father decided to move from Pavia to Rome to attend the famous "Frattocchie" (Frattocchie), the party school. I have never had the opportunity to deepen with my father the reasons that prompted him to make that choice and, above all, to participate so actively in the public and civic life of the country within that great communist house, because my father was missing very soon. I understood, however, that, before even being a great party, inserted in all the characteristics and contradictions of a difficult and dramatic century like the XX, the Italian Communist Party was the story of a great people, of millions of Italians who dreamed together something different, new and better for all and not for just one of them. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u16	ROJC (Eu-MAIE-CD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in 1917 Antonio Gramsci wrote: Indifference operates powerfully in history. It works passively, but it operates. [...] What happens, the evil that befalls everyone, happens because the mass of men abdicates to his will, lets promulgate the laws that only the revolt can repeal. These words of Gramsci, after more than a century, could be considered as part of the foundation of the Italian Communist Party. I have never shared the history of the Communist Party, it is not my story and I am aware of the contradictions that mark its path, but I have always deeply respected its matrix. In 1921 Italy was preparing for Mussolini's rise to power, but in Venice Julia, as elsewhere in Italy, fascism was already showing its true nature through squadrista actions. The Communists may have understood the danger before others. Those who take the lessons on the fascism of Palmiro Togliatti can understand the underlying idea: from exile to Moscow and leader of the Communist International, proposed an acute analysis of fascism as a historical phenomenon that liberals, socialists and even a part of the communists at the origin had underestimated. Togliatti was also a controversial character, but he has been called a "constitutive revolutionary" because from these "Lessons" emerge the theoretical and practical bases of the Communist Party in the war of liberation and the establishment of the Constitution of a Republic co-founded on the work and values of anti-fascistism. In contrast to the forces of democratic Christianity, liberalism and social democracy, the Communist Party was a fundamental subject of Italian pluralism. Whoever gathers the heritage of the popular forces and shares the values that determine our Constitution and represent the foundations of our Republic, cannot fail to respect those women and men who have made their own the ideals that, since the French Revolution, are at the basis of the conception of modern Europe: freedom, fraternity, equality. And - we will add - they are children of those who have fought the horror and practiced the faith: antifascism. The Communists never renounced the struggle for social justice; in this struggle they recognized the women and men who joined in mass. They joined it with a pure soul, as idealists. Allow me a note concerning the Slovenian national minority: it was the Italian Communist Party first to offer the Slovenians the opportunity to see elected on their lists their own parliamentary representative, to whom their heirs joined in the center-left until... [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u17	You can leave your speech to the record, thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u20	NENCINI (IV-PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is right to recall the birth of what later became a major mass party in Republican Italy. But I will focus more on the origins, because today we are celebrating the birth of this party. In Livorno a political force was born that married with the hope of the revolution, which will then prove totally unfounded. An impenetrable, sectarian party, led with an iron fist by Bordiga and Terracini, not by the intellectual Gramsci, particularly loved in Moscow but inviso in Italy. A party that is not born as an Italian Communist Party, but as a Communist Party of Italy, section of the Communist International, illusory from doing as in Russia, at the total service of Moscow. It is not the party that we will know from 1944, a mass party, decisive in the struggle for liberation, important in the democratic estate of Italy in the most difficult moments, beginning with terrorism, equipped with excellent mayors and very good local administrators. A party of people, no doubt, although it has been converted late to Europeanism and has not, with good peace of Scalfari, ever been able to boast a net cesura of the umbilical cord. However, we remain at the origins, at the initial node, because there comes history: in Livorno, in January 1921. There there are two antithetical visions, which will accompany Italy and the Italian left throughout the 20th century: gradualism on the one hand (the position of Turati and few others), on the other hand the attempt to use the violent and revolutionary struggle to reach a different society. What don't you understand in Livorno? You don't understand what Turati will say with a joke: every shortcut stretches the way. And you don't understand, because you have no right to citizenship under the sunken roof of the San Marco Theatre (it was a really broken roof, and it was raining), the phenomenon that was being born of the fascist teams. The two protagonists of the second part of the history of the origins of fascism in Livorno will not be: Gramsci is present, does not intervene, is at the orders of his group leader. The thought of Gramsci that has fascinated even those who speak to her will be born only later, in the aftermath of the nineteenth century... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u21	Senator Nencini, I cannot derogate for anyone; I interrupted Senator Rojc first and I must necessarily interrupt her too. Leave the text to the documents, if any.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u24	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, I believe that today we should take this opportunity to remember the victims of communism. Communism has been, throughout the 20th century, a terrible nightmare and the peoples who have known it have experienced blood and rubble: 100 million victims, according to the black book of communism. For this reason, on behalf of Brothers of Italy, I want to say clearly and strongly that we do not share this work of mystification of history, among other things with the money of the Italian State. [[Applause]] It is a shame that 400,000 euros have been allocated to remind a party that, for over half a century, has been under the orders of the Soviet Union. A faithful executor of Moscow's orders, starting even with the support of the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact, to move, even after the end of the war, to positions clearly aligned with Moscow on tragic facts of European history. Moreover, as an important historian like Valerio Riva has shown - obviously forgotten by the complacent left-wing historiography and the legitimate heirs of that Communist Party - with hundreds of irrefutable documents taken from the archives of Moscow, everyone knows that the Italian Communist Party, from 1945 until all the nineties, received over 500 million euros (1000 billion old lire) from the Soviet Union. Evidently he responded to the drawings of a power that - I want to remember - was an enemy of Italy and the West. This was communism in Italy: no diversity of the Italian Communist Party, exactly the opposite, and of this today we should finally talk without mystifications and without apologies of a past that we all have to hope never come back. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u27	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, in the event that my time is running out before I have finished my speech, I would ask you to attach the full text to the report. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency authorizes it to do so. Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, if we look at the interest that has aroused the anniversary of the birth of the Communist Party in recent days, I think it is evident to everyone - not to Senator Balboni, but I am not surprised - the importance of the role of the Communist Party and at the same time its particularity, its originality. This is the result of a journey. Even a blind man cannot fail to see the role that the Communist Party played in the construction of Italian democracy, not only in politics, not only in the Resistance, not only in the constituent Assembly. I am referring to the ability to involve millions of men and women, to reconstruct a relationship of the popular masses with institutions and democracy, after the criminal tragedy of fascism. Not seeing these things is an intellectual effort that does not respect intelligence and history. I do not intend here to retrace the story of 1921; Senator Nencini is right in saying that in 1921 Gramsci absolutely does not have a leading role in breaking and splitting; it is in 1926, at the Congress of Lyon, that the fundamental role of Gramsci arrives. I believe that the history and originality of the Italian Communist Party could not exist without Antonio Gramsci and without his ability to nerve the history, the reinterpretation of the Risorgimento, the Italian literature with Manzoni, the 19th century; without it there would be no Communist Party and then the new party of Togliatti. Nor do I want to deny the objective contradiction between the Italian route and the relationship with the Soviet Union. I don't want to deny it and it's an objective contradiction, but on the other hand you can't deny... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u28	I'm sorry, but I am.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u31	AIMI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, there is little to celebrate today. Today, Italian communism is one hundred years old and everyone is seen. However, we cannot understand the history of that party unless we begin to evaluate its international connection. I am talking about a Communist Party which was part of the Communist International which, as has been mentioned in this House, has caused more than 100 million deaths. Moreover, as the lagers closed, the gulags opened (this is an absolutely incontrovertible truth), where many Jews died tragically. We cannot therefore - as I have heard in this House - wish communism a long life, a bandit lurking on the road to Western civilization. That's the truth. Italian communism still has to deal with the rubles that came from Moscow, with the gold of Moscow; it has to deal with the so-called triangle of death, a story page that we still have to write for what happened; it still has to deal with the drama of the foibes, with Tito and all the correlations at international level. The Italian Communist Party helped to give asylum to Prague to refugees who had committed very serious crimes. It is a total failure and it has been in economics, against private property, against values, against the family; religion has always been considered an opium of peoples and I think that is what we should talk about. That is why we are celebrating the victims of communism today. I would also like to mention the Alpines that were abandoned, our Italian Army in Russia (Armir), of which Togliatti knew. I would also like to remind you that the Unity, the daily newspaper of the Italian Communist Party, on March 6, 1953, headlined: "The mournful news" "Honour to the great Stalin!" "Eternal glory to the man who has done most of all for the liberation and progress of humanity." Yes, international communism has freed hundreds of millions of people from life, as in China and Cambodia; it has destroyed the most sacred principles, starting with that in life. I believe that an honest party, an honest political force, must have the courage to get out of this milk and honey treatment completely to finally tell the truth. Forza Italia cannot stand on this side and, as an anti-communist, will continue in this battle of truth. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u34	LANNUTTI (M5S). Mr President, in the event that my time is running out before I have finished my speech, I would ask you to attach the full text to the report. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency authorizes it to do so. LANNUTTI (M5S). History, teacher of life, never has schoolchildren. To all those who try not only to whistle, but also to denigrate history, I want to remind you that there have been errors of the Italian Communist Party, with its friendship with Russia. But I also want to remember that without the Red Army today many nostalgic people would be under the heel of Nazism. [[Applause.]] We remember these things. The first years of life of the Italian Communist Party were marked by the defeat of the workers' movement and the violent reaction of the fascist regime, fed by industrialists and landowners. During the Second World War the PCI - which on November 12, 1989, three days after the fall of the Berlin Wall, was dissolved by Occhetto, with the birth of a new party of the Italian left - had played an important role in the Resistance against the German occupation and fascism, after Palmiro Togliatti had implemented a policy of collaboration with the democratic, Catholic, liberal and socialist forces, proposing first the Italian way to socialism. It also had an important influence in the creation and defense of the Republican Institutions, which had been through the long season of massacres, which began on December 12, 1969 in Milan with the massacre of Piazza Fontana, the strategy of tension and the attempt to subvert the State with the deviant secret services and the Masonic Loggia P2 by Licio Gelli. I met many of those executives, having been the secretary of Mario Spallone, Togliatti's doctor. Everyone had at heart the general interests and the common good. I am referring above all to Berlinguer - whose moral question should be dusted up these days - who said that parties are power machines and customers. Finally, since time is running out, I would like to remind you that history, the teacher of life, must be a teaching for those who do not know it and are condemned to replicate it; also in order to prevent the repetition of the immense tragedies of the past, as Karl Marx taught, from repeating themselves as a farce. I remember when Almirante... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u37	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I take the floor on the order of business: I know that the timing of the speeches in this House is decided by the Conference of the Leaders, and I would ask you to make it clear that very important political and parliamentary issues must be put forward by the Groups at a reasonable time. We have had the proof of this with the debate this morning: all the groups have freely expressed their views, in one sense or another, with interventions choked, however, by the time allocated. It seems to me that on such matters we should give the necessary time to develop a minimum of historical memory and political argumentation, as we have heard. Three minutes to Commemorate Fathers of the Homeland or to address political issues, such as those on the agenda this morning, seem to me very few. I would ask you to raise awareness of the Conference of Leaders in order to change this practice, which does not seem to me to honor the Senate. Thank you, President. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u38	Thank you, Senator Zanda. We will take this into account for the upcoming events or events that we should be celebrating or debating here.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u39	The next item is the debate on the draft law No 2070, which has already been approved by the House of Deputies. I would ask Senator Garruti to report on the Commission's work.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u40	Mr President, the Senate Act 2070 was incardinated yesterday, on which the deadline for tabling amendments was set at 6 p.m., which came in the number of 55 to the Commission. The Commission's work was resumed this morning, but the very short time allowed us not to finish the examination of the measure and, consequently, to give the rapporteur the mandate. 9.41 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, in relation to Senator Garruti's report, the draft law No 2070, since the examination has not been completed in the Commission, will be discussed in the text transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies without report, pursuant to Rule 44 (3) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, this debate is the symbol of the misconception of this former Government: a decree-law on the Christmas period is converted, let us be aware of this. Let's look at a pitiful veil and talk about school: is it possible that, after a year, you didn't find solutions to guarantee the right to study safely? Summer has also passed and only in Italy we are at this point, while in the rest of Europe they have kept the classrooms open as much as possible. Where were you this year? School, research, training, culture, such as public administration and justice, information and Parliament itself have for too many years been the exclusive heritage of the left. Every thought other than yours, even during the pandemic, is to be abolished, rejected and ridiculed. Here are the obvious results of your strategy, to hide your head under the counter. Since March last year we have suffered everything, by direct television and DPCM shots of a former President that the Italians will remember only for the institutional arrogance and for all the economic consequences that we well know. Just say that you didn't know the virus, the cures and the protocols: all excuses to cover formidable mistakes. Other than defeating the virus; other than an example for Europe and the whole world: the results we see now, with Italy counting the largest number of deaths and the largest economic collapse. It's been a year and your presence has only led to worsening throughout the country. But let's go back to the shame of school. In September you arrived unprepared, uncoordinated, without a rag of prevention and safety program, despite the task forces and the legendary firepower. [[Applause]] Face the war with water guns: open schools without even the teachers of role and closed after two weeks; the transport completely ignored, in an Italy made of villages and small municipalities, with students who get up at dawn to go to school taking the only bus that there is. Not all children live in cities with public transport lines. Did you know or do you live on the Moon? Are you awake? Sacrificed young people, teachers without training on distance learning and families without digital equipment, but who can enjoy the scooter. But where do you live? [[Applause]] Greece, which you consider to be the last in the class, has increased the number of computers present in families by 500 per cent in a year, using the current European funds and not those of the recovery plan, which you so long for, knowing well that they are loaned money and to be returned in the coming years. UNESCO informs us that millions of young people are ruined by distance learning. There are 20 percent more cases of suicide and attempted suicide. The children's hospital "Child Jesus" spread the alarm: for the first time there are beds occupied by those who tried to kill themselves. You're co-responsible. Alcohol and drugs have grown and anxiety and depression have increased by 30 percent. You have taken away every moment of aggregation, sport and sociality to young people, who have found themselves isolated in the moment of growth and have felt alone like the thousands of entrepreneurs who are desperate at this moment, while you play with your chairs without decorum. You left them alone, like patients with diseases other than coronavirus. Screening not made, specialist visits abolished and 100,000 urgent interventions not made: in short, a disaster. The school must be a guarantee of seriousness and professionalism and a key instrument in order to promote a future decent work, which means not to have everyone graduate by lowering the quality, just to have a title, but to train the professionals of the future, teaching satisfaction in life and intercepting the demands of our companies and transmitting healthy values, so where everyone is unique and unrepeatable. [[Applause]] Enough with the television illusion of reality, social and success thanks to shortcuts and strokes of like. Many decades ago, Piero Calamandrei said: "Transforming subjects into citizens is a miracle that only school can perform." This miracle can only be achieved by a political majority other than yours, which does not waste public money on the unnecessary purchase of millions of wheelchairs for dilapidated structures in areas at seismic and hydrogeological risk. With the €29 billion recovery plan, these issues need to be addressed. We are very late on the organization of school and transport, on the recovery of lost hours, on the quality of teaching (don't you dare blame our children), on the vaccination plan, on the protocols for home care and on refreshments. We need to make the most of our researchers and companies right away, creating jobs. We need vision and planning, but for those who spend their days picking up votes in Parliament with their hats is perhaps asking too much. You need authority that you haven't seen for too long. Save the Italians a Conte-ter Government, an instrument of self-protection of your armchair, but that would be the perpetuation of the political, social and economic disaster that you have produced. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u43	Senator Modena is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u44	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, today we are addressing, among other things, without report and therefore without further analysis, yet another decree-law containing a heterogeneous text and contrary to the Constitution from a legal, formal and even substantial point of view. It is, in fact, the decree-law that has limited the freedom of movement of citizens during the Christmas period and has left the entrepreneurs alone at one of the most complex moments, such as that of Christmas holidays. Since the time available is short, I just want to remind you that Forza Italia has proposed a series of amendments to the decree-law in question, because there are emergencies that this majority - or "was majority" - has always decidedly ignored; and I quote two as an example. The first is as follows: we have proposed to use cashback funds (operating translation: 1.7 billion for 2021 and 3 billion for 2022) for businesses and services, in order to guarantee both tax credits and grants. Instead, this money is used, always in the logic of digital payment, as a measure designed to combat tax evasion at a time like this (so much to understand the madness of the construction of this legislation). Another example of an emergency is the European Bank's guidelines, which gave strict criteria to banks. Today a private accountant who goes below 100 euros or a company that goes below 500 euros risk ending up among the bad payers. This problem has been raised several times by Forza Italia and by the forces of the center-right, but it has continued to find the Government and the majority substantially deaf; instead they have made the usual decree, as I said, which limits the freedoms and leaves businesses and citizens alone. The point is that this emergency regulation comes out disorderly, chaotic and without a design, because the logic of this gathering majority - or "was majority" - is that of forces that have come together not to govern the country, but exclusively to manage power in the framework of an unnatural design, without a political-strategic design of a general nature. I could end my speech with a phrase that usually says those in opposition, like me: Resign. This, however, you have already done so and I sincerely hope that the discussion in the coming days will not only be on the boxes, but on the many things to do, that the country is waiting for and on which the unnatural majority of August 2019 has not been able to give answers. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u45	Senator Doria is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today I am speaking in my dual capacity as a health worker and university teacher in order to stigmatize the critical issues that have arisen in this pandemic and to suggest corrective measures. The emergency caused by coronavirus has certified in all its drama the collapse of the health system, put on the ropes by an unpredictable and unexpected situation. Public health has shown its inability to respond adequately to current emergencies, also due to short-sighted choices that have led over the years to a serious shortage in the staff of medical and health personnel, as well as the well-known infrastructure deficiencies. It is a dramatic situation, the one discovered by the emergency Covid, which is adversely affecting the health performance of our country. Numbers in hand, it is expected that over 50,000 doctors from the National Health Service will be missing over the next five years, also taking into account the fact that the Italian ones are among the oldest in Europe. Already today there are several thousand vacancies of medical staff: a hemorrhage with really thrilling numbers, if you consider that the problem is equally serious for nurses, physiotherapists and all other categories of health care. These problems require a precise strategy of action with measures aimed at restoring the staff of the National Health System, starting from the abolition of the number closed for registration to the master's degree course in medicine and surgery, now antihistorical and abandoned already in several European realities. Now, focusing on the situation of Sardinia, the land where I live and work, there is an even more negative trend, with implications of even more serious and emerging scope for the desertification of territorial medicine, for the lack of doctors of general medicine and pediatricians of free choice, as well as for the closure of numerous hospital departments due to the shortage of specialist doctors. In the universities of Cagliari and Sassari, which both have the faculty of medicine, there is an increasing number of young people from other Italian regions who are graduating in medicine and surgery. These, obtained the degree, easily cross the Tyrrhenian to carry out their medical profession in the regions of origin. Taking into account that the percentage of Sardinian students who pass the national test is only 10 percent, it is clear that the closed number does not allow the formation of a sufficient number of Sardinian doctors to cover the needs of the Regional Health System related to the turn over of the medical class. There is therefore a need to put in place an extraordinary measure of derogation from the norm, requiring at least for the next two academic years the possibility of registering in excess number in the two universities of Sardinia a reasonable number of students compared to the places annually assigned by the Ministry and whose access takes place through the national competition. Supernumbered posts should be reserved for those born in Sardinia or residents for at least five years prior to the application; access must of course include a selective test or a preferential certificate for those who have previously taken the admission exam. This proposal is shared by the rectors of the two Sardinian universities and the Regional Council of Sardinia, which will be active by making available the resources necessary for the coverage of additional teaching roles according to the increase of the student population as an investment necessary to fill the staff of the regional health system. The current proposal, which does not go beyond the existing legislation on state competence, has a limited character in time and exceptional, with the prospect that Parliament may have a law to reorder the university system which abolishes the closed number of access to the medical faculty. This measure - which I also hope on behalf of all the Sardinian Members of Parliament - is an indispensable measure for us, which would enable Sardinian health care to be provided with an effective and immediate means of combating the current crisis and preventing the paralysis of the health service, with irreversible damage which would have a dramatic effect on the health of Sardinians. I would ask that this matter be included on the agenda for a forthcoming sitting. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u47	Senator Rizzotti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am embarrassed to speak to a government that is not there, but since the decree entered into force on 18 December I am speaking to what was there. We are talking about a measure that was yet another missed promise from the former President of the Council. Now we see that the first, the second and the third Conte Government become like the first, the second and the third decree-restoration laws. Too bad the refreshments haven't arrived yet. I hope you don't get to the Count-d. The fact that at the end of January we are discussing a decree-law that provided for the restrictions of the Christmas period says a lot. What we are voting in the current context is yet another measure with which, as usual, we try to chase the epidemic, as we have been doing for a year without success. This text is made up of heterogeneous measures and contrary to our Constitution. I believe that we have all read the comment of the constitutionalist Sabino Cassese, certainly not favorable to the center-right, according to which it would take a special group of hell for the people who studied this decree. We have become a colorful country like Harlequin, like the former President of the Council. We only know from yesterday that there is a problem in the transmission of data that determines the allocation of color to the regions. We have been calling for transparency in the publication of data in all languages for months. We are for transparency! We have asked questions to which we have never received an answer; the only thing you have done has always been to put the responsibility on others: the fault of the citizens who behave badly, the fault of the regions, the fault of the researchers who denounce the copy-paste of the pandemic plan. This government has lost the compass: tracking is out of control, every day we read numbers, but we do not understand if they are hospitalized by Covid-19 or if the patient has taken the virus in hospital, since many Regions have not organized themselves (thanks also to the guidelines of the Government) to have differentiated paths between patients Covid and non. Are you sure, then, that the figure calculated for the risk model on intensive therapies was correct? For example, many regions have made the smart ones and, in order not to exceed the limit of 30% of the places occupied in intensive care, they have increased, as the government asked, the beds in those departments; a bed, however, is nothing, if there are no equipment and dedicated staff: they are beds that remain empty, but that can make orange a region that would deserve to be dark red. We do not consider everything that these changes of color have caused in the economy; but, as usual, it is not your responsibility. Let's not think about the impact on our young people. Just know that during the pandemic the number of poor among our teenagers has increased by 30 percent, with eating disorders leading to death. Boys and families have been abandoned, like all the other sick. [[Applause]] You are still looking for those responsible: seek your own responsibility! Even today I have heard that we are the only country in the world in which majority and opposition do not cooperate; do you want to keep making fun of us? We have tried in every way to cooperate, offering our help: you have rejected even the simplest amendment and agenda. You are very fast to boast with tweets: Italy was always the best. Yet we know that on the vaccination plan you have misjudged, because you knew, by doing the right things, that, compared to the quantities you had proposed at the beginning, by vaccinating healthcare professionals and over 80 years of age, 3 million doses would be missing. You're also flunking math. [[Applause]] I do not go into the substance of the checks on who has received the vaccine and who has not, because it will certainly be Commissioner Arcuri's intransigence and transparency that will define the issue. You weren't even able to test the vaccine or make a vaccination plan. Mr President, in conclusion, I believe that if you do not take off that crust of ideology (and thank goodness that there was today's commemoration), you cannot continue. There has been a lot of ideology in this legislature: we now refer to the Covid-19 and the concern to get vaccinated, but precisely at the beginning of the legislature in this House the vaccine was considered a useless thing for polio, for coughing or for measles, diseases considered as a mere cold. Now you've gone home. I hope that the next government will not present the same figures that we have been forced to see until now. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u49	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mautone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u50	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, senators and senators, in commenting on or discussing the effects and consequences of the various measures taken in progressive succession to cope with the spread of the pandemic and the various epidemic waves and the exacerbation of contagions, one cannot fail to point out and not start from an incontrovertible fact: the tragedy we are experiencing is the deepest and most damaging crisis that the world is going through after the Second World War, especially in terms of the tribute of human lives, suffering and social and economic upheavals. In this storm that has struck the world there are no winners and there will be no winners or losers in the end. What each of us must understand is that there is only one enemy to be fought together: the coronavirus. It is necessary to put on the one hand the interests of the party and the positions too personalistic and try to find a common and shared vision, highlighting and focusing attention on the things that unite and not on those that divide. We need a spirit of cooperation on the part of all, highlighting the measures and choices that are not shared, as it is right that it is, but also having the intellectual honesty and objectivity to provide alternative choices and solutions that are practicable, practicable and achievable, motivating them and subsequently assuming the responsibilities, if they do not achieve the expected and hoped-for results at the verification of the facts. Certainly it is much easier to judge the work of others. It is more difficult, on the contrary, to make choices, assuming responsibility, clearly, decisively and quickly. We all know how the time problem is fundamental, because the virus runs fast and doesn't wait. We need appropriate choices, often challenging, but to be taken quickly, in order to face the current state, with a programmatic look at tomorrow. I have said this before: the greatest difficulties lie, as we all must objectively recognise, in finding the right balance between openings and closures, between more elastic and less stringent measures and more restrictive measures, which may seem disproportionate to some and which, therefore, are not always understood or shared. Having said that, however, if we all always remember the tens of thousands of deaths that unfortunately the pandemic has provoked in our country and if we looked objectively at the situation of the world and the many restrictive measures that so many countries implement - such as the closures in response to the worsening of their internal epidemiological situation and their high number of contagions - surely many of those who currently criticize a priori and regardless of many of the choices made, probably would have a second thought, at least partially modifying their attitude, especially if it is based not on objective data, but on pre-emptive positions. Certainly the requests for support and economic help for the objective difficulties and losses of turnover of those who have suffered the most economic effects and problems related to the pandemic are acceptable, so much so that they cannot continue their work with continuity. However, the reliefs, public aid and the derogation fund have been financed and allocated and will be maintained as long as necessary. But everyone must also think that the health of the individual and the community is an inalienable good, which comes first of all. Suffering and death must be avoided in every way and by all means. Every single life must be defended and we must try in every way not to put it at risk: health comes first of all! This war will be won only with the contribution and solidarity of all and with the respect of the norms issued, but also with the decisive help of science and the progressive and gradual implementation of the immense vaccination campaign just begun, respecting the priorities and free of charge throughout the national territory, certainly not relating it to GDP, greater or lesser, of every single Region or to the luck of being born and living in a certain geographical area, such as Lombardy. The citizens of the southern regions already pay a high price, on their own skin, for the inefficiencies and the structural and organizational deficiencies of health care, the result of mistaken and demagogic political choices, connivances, corruption and decades of malasanity. We must all demonstrate, not only in words, but in deeds, that we feel the sense of belonging, even in territorial diversity, to a single great country. Everyone, in his own role, must play his part: this is the spirit of solidarity of a true community and of a united Italy. We need objective truths and not propaganda. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u51	Senator Binetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u52	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, there is always a kind of discomfort in adopting a measure that has already expired in practice. The measure under consideration, which goes under the name of the Christmas decree, contains, for example, a passage on the reopening of schools for the period from 14 to 20 January. It is therefore a decree that arrives at our old approval in some important points, such as those concerning school and a number of measures. When, as an opposition, we ask that we be able to cooperate in the facts, we refer to the possibility of intervening in the decision-making processes that contribute to guiding and redirecting the measures we are implementing. The decree has certainly seen a long stay - I do not really know how long - in the Chamber of Deputies and arrives at us in armored form, as I reserve the right to verify shortly, when we will vote on the amendments and we will understand so if there is a mechanism for correcting the model that has been transmitted to us, which would then necessarily require a return to the House. There is a huge scare in this active enhancement of the bicameral system that we represent. The first criticism that I make - I am addressing the Government and colleagues know it well - is an expression of deep discomfort as a Member of Parliament. We feel reduced to a mere formality role and we will soon see whether my words will be confirmed or not, but this is an important point. We are on the eve of a change of pace, of a change of government and we want to take advantage of the contradictions of this mechanism to tell the next Government, regardless of who will be the President of the Council and the majority that will form: Please don't work like that anymore. Do not systematically humiliate Parliament's contribution to this. To enter concretely into the detail of the decree there are three crucial passages that have drawn my attention particularly. The first is the mechanism of colors - let's call it this - that is to say what somehow confines a region in one color according to some indicators or allows the transition from one color to another. Change of color is not only a reflection of the country's health situation. Not only are the famous Rt factor or the number of intensive care beds occupied or not at stake, but all the economic dynamics of a certain region are at stake. It is this overall view and the ability to evaluate the 360° processes that have been lacking by the Government: a vision that is capable of integrating the needs of all by finding plausible answers of effectiveness and efficiency has really been lacking. What we have seen is a very long passage from the consent that the subject has to give to the vaccination. We would very much like this emphasis in the decree to correspond to the actual availability of vaccines. Today, after fighting the no vax operation at the beginning of the legislature, we are faced with the fact that the country wants to vaccinate, but does not have the vaccines available. It is as if here we put the emphasis on a freedom that, moreover, has no way of expressing itself, because the specific object of the struggle is missing. We would have liked to have had a vaccine supply capacity. We would have liked realism in putting people in front of this perspective, which would respond more and better to reality. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u53	He's enlisted to speak Senator Corti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this decree-law, the so-called Christmas decree, could not have had a worse name. At Christmas we are usually all better and look forward to the gifts of the Child Jesus; the family gathers together and happiness reigns. Nothing to do with this decree, which - in my opinion - should have been called "decree house arrests and euthanasia of tourism." There are 423 billion missing receipts and only 23 billion have been invested in refreshments. But do you realize that you are forgetting the avalanche of VAT matches and entrepreneurs? I turn to the presumed majority that is no longer there, of course. Today, in this surreal context, we are voting on a Christmas decree and it is at the end of January. But above all it is a text that forgets the part of refreshments linked to the week of Holy Christmas. Do you realize you forgot about the mountain at Christmas? And repeat again the same error related to the Ateco code system with a flat-rate system. This is a misery that is not enough even to cover the fixed costs of companies (bubbles, rents, suppliers, transport and employees). In this decree you inserted a miserable table with eleven Ateco codes related to catering, an eleven-line table. Are you kidding me? And then you're surprised if restaurateurs, exhibitors and traders have lost their patience and come down to the square? We have pointed out to you everything that came from this cry of pain: the protest of the restaurateurs, the gym managers, the world of tourism completely zeroed out. People who have an activity are suffering dramatic damage, which is increasing from day to day. They are people who are now on the brink of failure; they are desperate. At first they invested to safely adapt their service and helped their employees out of pocket; but now they are close to bankruptcy, and they will fail because the state, after having forced them to close, did not want to support them. I could quote the cases of Serramazzoni's bar, where Roberta closed. The case of Paola di Sestola, who paid for ski equipment and is excluded from the restaurant. The cases reported by Lapam di Montefiorino, in which, if the main activity is just the bar, that to survive also produces some pizza to take away, today can no longer deliver them because it is after 18: a madness in the pure state. This Christmas decree seems written by those who live in a comfortable city palace and do not imagine that the shops of the internal areas are very important territorial garrisons that, once closed, will never reopen. I would have liked to have brought you to the House a beautiful map in relief of those that explain the orography of the territories. It was, however, very large and, therefore, I will only show you the small map of the beautiful Val Padana, dating back to 1590. Well, that applies to the whole peninsula. Let's take a good look at it: do you see the brown parts with some tops? These are the mountain areas, those mountains and hills that cover 75% of our country. When you studied the mileage restrictions, did you use the compass? Certainly you have not done the mileage calculation that takes an elder to go from Armanur to the nearest optics store, or the Arezdora of Cargé who had to go to buy fresh fish in Pavullo for Christmas lunch, or a couple of mountain parents who wanted to rent a DVD, maybe cartoons, to see with their children. Yes, because in the mountainous areas very often there is no GSM coverage, as from Piandelagotti to Sant'Annapelago, nor are there radio bridges and optical fibers to connect companies and families; then imagine suitable Rai repeaters or other broadcasters. Therefore, it is normal for mountaineers to get away, physically renting a DVD or even a VHS videotape. Our valleyrs adapt to everything, but they certainly cannot be confined within a radius of 30 kilometers. Just the common sense and the map I showed you just now, of old maps of the sixteenth century, to realize that they knew better the geography of today's solos of the CTS. You had to do everything possible to reconcile the measures with the lives of people, that is, the elderly, the disabled, students, workers, entrepreneurs; we repeat this also in this decree-law, where you continue to hit the activities with the absurd system of the Ateco codes. Confcommercio speaks of 400,000 closed businesses. Even in this measure, during the proceedings in the House, we had tabled important amendments which you rejected. We call not to stop at the imposition of the Ateco codes, but to support the supply chains in the food, clothing, tourism and sport sectors. Mr President, a world of A-class people is being created, who fortunately receive their salary at the end of the month, and another of B-class workers, VAT matches and self-employed workers: politics cannot allow this. To regain contact with the social fabric and its diversity is the duty of politics. The mountain section has deep roots, roots that are the mirror of the people living there, and the mountains - as Goethe said - are silent masters that generate silent disciples. But our economy is on its knees and politics, if it remains unarmed, will generate the inevitable consequence of the depopulation of our valleys and the carelessness of places that will become the exclusive prerogative of wolves. I use the last thirty seconds to say that the internal areas to survive need immediately three things: large infrastructure works to reduce distances; digitalization and connectivity; enhancement of local health care. It is clear that with the 400,000 invested for the centenary of the Communist Party something could be done in this direction, but it was preferred to do sterile hagiography. In conclusion, Mr President, since dreaming costs nothing, let us at least dream of being able to live in our mountains. Let us dream of working to give our young people a future. We do not ask for alms and clientelism: we ask you to leave us the dignity of being able to dream with eyes open as we admire the peaks of our mountains. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u55	She is registered to speak Senator Mantovani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, senators, representatives of the Government, Decree-Law No 172 of 2020, already approved by the House of Deputies and today for the attention of this House, represents one of the regulatory instruments put in place by the Government, with the collaboration of Parliament, to counter the epidemiological emergency and safeguard the fundamental right to health. In it there are some rules - I am thinking of the provisions on so-called refreshments - which still have their full effectiveness today; others - the limitations in force during the Christmas period, recently passed - remain to photograph a situation that, unfortunately, will remain indelible in our memory and of all Italian citizens. These measures have outlined a more restrictive picture than travel and visits to relatives and friends, but always maintaining a balance between the restrictions imposed and the need for families to live - at least during the Christmas period - with a minimum of serenity together with their loved ones. It was not a light-hearted choice. We know that, for our tradition, Christmas holidays, New Year's Eve and Epiphany represent a moment of encounter, sharing and celebration that this year we have had to severely limit. We know that they also represent a moment of prosperity for all the commercial realities of our country, which have had to give up their profits, closing their windows in front of affectionate customers. But the threat of pandemic expansion was still real. Restrictive choices to the movement of persons and non-essential recreational activities have been implemented by the Government on the basis of a compilation of collected data, which are the scientific basis for making the most appropriate decisions. With the hindsight of the day, we can all see and see how important these measures have been to achieve the current containment results, even if in a dramatic emergency situation. Today we can see that the peak of daily positives was reached on 22 November (806,000 positives); at the same time the new daily positives were 35,000. In mid-December we dropped to 20,000 new positives daily and the total positives along the month of December continued the descent, while the healings grew steadily. The aim was to achieve an overall situation compatible with the return to school in the presence of high school children. Since the beginning of January the daily positives are always less than 570,000 and the new daily positives decrease from 20,000 to 13,000. This relative success was possible thanks to the sacrifices made during the Christmas holidays; sacrifices involving everyone, but some more than others. I am referring to the activities involved in the administration of food and drink, on which the restrictions described above inevitably affected in terms of decreasing turnover. For those with the active VAT number, especially identified in the Decree-Law under consideration, grants are offered through the allocation of EUR 645 million, EUR 455 million for 2020 and EUR 190 million for 2021. We are not at all out of the emergency - we know that - either from a health or economic point of view, and that is why these support initiatives will continue to be approved. Special attention deserves to be paid to the school. The measure contains measures for the gradual resumption of school activity after the period of distance learning. Also on this occasion the Movimento 5 Stars wants to reiterate its support for the work carried out by Minister Azzolina, who has done everything there was to make the school a safe place and guarantee to the children what they are entitled to. It is absurd to witness today the ballet of the Regions which, in recent weeks, have arbitrarily arranged referrals in the openings of schools. As the Technical and Scientific Committee asked for on 17 January, the increase in the incidence of new cases is contained and the return to class, because of its importance, is no longer procrastinable due to the serious impact of its absence on the learning and psychological structuring of adolescents. Extending the closure of school institutions in some Italian regions and preventing young people from returning to their classes was not a choice made in the name of the community. On 23 December, agreements were signed between the Government and the Regions; agreements were to be respected, put in black and white. From the Higher Institute of Health they say that attending school environments does not represent an amplifier of contagions and school communities have been following strict rules for months. The psychological situation of students and adolescents since last March, during the first lockdown, is very different from that of this last period in December and January. A student's testimony: in March everything was closed and we felt like everyone else; Today only we are closed and they postpone fifteen days in therefore days; it is a kind of Chinese drop. The balance between limitations on individual freedom and safeguarding the health of citizens cannot affect school, which remains - among other things - the place of fundamental socialization. Socialization is the process in which children become part of society, they learn the rules, knowledge, skills and values. The didactic loneliness - and not only didactic - for boys and girls is pathological: they have a huge energy that, if you keep locked up for months (it's now a year), you do them a huge damage. So do not let young people pay this very high price. There can be no refreshment to the cultural and social damage that they will carry. For teenagers, the school is not only a place of learning, but also a place of encounter and confrontation with different realities and cultures. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that the decree-law before us can also be passed and converted into law today. It represents a tangible signal of the Government's attention, unitedly represented by President Giuseppe Conte, towards the dramatic situation we are experiencing. My wish today is that our President, Giuseppe Conte, can be put in a position to continue this work in the same spirit that marked him in the search for unity of government action, in order to best respond to the needs of the country, without any further interference that, to the public's eye, would not be understood. The country no longer accepts role-playing strategies. The country asks us to work for the common good and for all citizens. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u57	Senator Masini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u58	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this week marks an anniversary, that of the arrival of the couple of Chinese positive spouses at the Covid-19 who were hospitalized at the Lazarus Spallanzani Hospital in Rome. It's been a year since Coronavirus, Covid-19, masks, sanitization and others entered our common vocabulary; it's been a year since in the parliamentary classrooms - I have to say quite little - but especially in the government rooms, more or less effective measures were discussed to get the country out of the crisis. It is a year in which, over and over again in this House, there has been talk of the economy, the right to work versus the right to health and how to compensate for the activities that have been subject to questionable closures. We have been discussing a weak health system for a year, which has been afloat only thanks to the skills and sacrifices of medical staff. We've been talking about school for a year. It has been a year that we say that we must meet the families and the most fragile, think of the disabled, the elderly, the children and the self-employed: all areas where the answers have been weak and summary. Spot measures, random bonuses, no structure, no program: you sail on sight in a stormy sea and unfortunately with bad sailors, with the last few weeks completely wasted to figure out who would still have a seat at the government table. In the meantime, between a sum and a subtraction of the Members, we have completely slipped the hand of the vaccination plan and I am not just talking about open disputes with the pharmaceutical companies and the scheduled doses that will not come, but I am talking about the organization and management of what we have at our disposal. I know for a fact that there are doctors and health workers for whom it has not yet been possible to immunize; doctors and healthcare professionals who every day enter patients' homes, perhaps to assist them with other diseases or to carry out tax visits and who may be exposed to contagion. Where, then, is the priority for healthcare professionals? The first months of the emergency we focused on avoiding the collapse of the health system, but that seemed the only goal; achieved that, the rest was completely left to chance. School is one of those problems: it's a problem you haven't understood, you don't know how to deal with and for which the solution for the new year has not yet been found. [[Applause]] Last week, the head of neuropsychiatry for childhood and adolescence at the children's hospital "Child Jesus" in Rome, Dr. Stefano Vicari, said that suicide and self-harm attempts have increased by 30 percent: since October - a month that should tell you something - access to the emergency room has multiplied due to psychiatric disorder and in 90 percent there is talk of young people between the twelve and eighteen years who have tried to take their lives. All our senior talk, you've completely forgotten about the kids. [[Applause]] They were asked to sacrifice their sociality, confrontation with their peers, the possibility of distracting themselves and getting out of that sense of fear and terror generated in all of us by Covid-19 and often have been accused of being almost anointed for their need of life; invisible and expendable beings, perhaps because not yet in age to vote. If we cannot give these children back the places of aggregation - I understand that they are at high risk - we must at least give them back the school, because - as Dr. Vicari said - the school cannot be seen as a place of preparation for the world of work, but as a place of formation of character and knowledge. [[Applause]] Inside the school you grow culturally, but not only. You redeem yourself, you assert yourself. You are trying to keep a country afloat tirelessly without thinking that, continuing like this, there will no longer be a shore to land on. It is not possible to continue pouring the State's responsibilities on individuals; it was so with the entrepreneurs who paid the Integration Fund; it is thus with the property owners who lose their rental fees. It is so for doctors you call heroes, but you are not able to protect. It is so for young people who are accused of unconsciousness, but to whom you do not give alternatives that have as a suffix future. [[Applause]] In these weeks there is one thing you should have done instead of going around the parliamentary classrooms looking for responsible people: you should have created and assumed responsibility for your choices, your non-choices; the responsibility of not being able to look to the future [[Applause]] But to try desperately to get unharmed at the next round of elections. After all, we know - paraphrasing De Gasperi - only a statesman looks to the next generations. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u59	Senator Grimani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the decree-law that we are about to convert into law collects the measures adopted by the Government during the previous month to address the health risks associated with the spread of the Covid virus during the Christmas holidays. The health data available at the date of issue of the first decree did not leave much hope in an improvement of the curve of contagions; they did not show prospects of reducing the victims of the pandemic and therefore required a restrictive intervention in view of a period, the Christmas one, that could expose the population to greater risks. It is therefore a measure that was - and it falls back, because we are converting it today - within an overall strategy that has had its consistency in recent months; a strategy of rigour, with containment measures that have expressed the necessary prudence regarding the contagiousness, the danger of the virus and its consequences on the holding of our National Health Service, which however has demonstrated in recent months a capacity for resilience and adaptation to an unprecedented event, showing its strength and vitality thanks also to investments extraordinarily unpublished for over 12 billion euros. In that particular context two decrees were issued, which then with an amendment of the Government were inserted in Decree-Law 18 December 2020, n. 172, which we are going to convert: Decree-Law n. 58 which extended the maximum living limit of the implementing DCCM of the emerging norms, bringing it from thirty to fifty days and providing for the prohibitions that we have known in the period from 21 December to 6 January about the movements between regions, with the exception of movements motivated by proven working needs, situations of necessity or health reasons. Then there is the decree of 18 December which instead introduced further restrictions of the period from 21 December to 6 January, also providing for measures of refreshment for the activities that carried out the administration of food and drink, to which it came on those days communicated, with a very short notice, the obligation of closure in order to reduce the possibility of infection. The measure contains the important aspect of the restaurants, which have not solved the problems of activity that unfortunately at a positive stage - as would have been the Christmas one - have seen their activities closed with the impossibility of being able to have the revenues hoped for. 455 million has been allocated for 2020, 190 million for 2021. This is a measure on which Italy Viva has made an important effort to guarantee its size and above all the speed, but in some cases there has not been, causing important problems with regard to the survival of the activities. The solution to the problem that many workers and workers have had from the situation we are experiencing must be a future objective for us. The measure, apart from having in its heart the theme of the refreshments, certainly has a very important aspect, which is that of the revision of the criteria for the identification of the risk scenarios, that is the criteria that have determined the allocation of colors to the Regions, that are still at the center of the attention of the citizens because they regulate the lives of all in these hours. They are colours that - as we have seen - characterize the daily life of the last days and, with an order from the Ministry of Health, starting from the one issued on 8 January, regulate the possibilities of movement and public life of citizens. The measure also includes another important aspect, which is that of the organization of didactics, that is the resumption of activity in presence for 50% of the students starting from 11 January. This is a crucial issue. We have seen that this date in many regions has not been respected by choice of the Regions themselves. We have to say that this has led to additional difficulties for families, which have added to the many concerns that they also have to manage both organizationally and emotionally the kids locked in the house behind a computer. The school must be the absolute priority in the commitment of the Government and for all the institutions of our country. We need to get out of the barren debate about whether distance learning is a good thing and we need to work instead to bring as close as possible the right of every girl and boy to a full, stable and secure education. Moreover, in order to do this, we need to clarify the data on infection in the school, which have been requested in recent months by the CTS and which still have to come to Parliament's attention. I believe that this data is important because it serves to clarify, to ensure that assessments are based on the evidence, transparency and intelligibility of the data themselves. I believe that in recent weeks the restriction measures have achieved the objective of limiting the spread of the contagion, but we must not lower the guard: the data that still in the last few days are in some ways negative, especially in some regions, confirm that the choices made for the Christmas period were right because, if they had been less rigorous, probably the data today would have been more negative. I believe that our commitment must be to improve the measures, as the measure under consideration has done, with the changes introduced to the House. I believe, however, that we need to rebuild a climate - as often in the debates on the measures relating to the Covid - of greater harmony in the diversity of political positions and positions. It is right to make constructive criticism, we too have made many of Italy Viva - we would miss something else, we also see the situation of these days in the relationship with the Government - but it is clear that one cannot have as objective that of riding the malaise of the Italians. We'll get through this pandemic if we all row together on the same side. We will have months of considerable complexity, as well as throughout Europe. It is enough to see the data that have covered the situation in England in recent weeks, where they are in the third lockdown, or in Germany, where up to ten days ago there were still 1,000 deaths a day, to say that this is a global problem and that it would not make sense to deal with it in a logic of political opposition within our Parliament and country. I think, therefore, that we must not blow on the fire; we must not populistly caress the idea of abandoning the line of rigour. There is a responsibility to make even unpopular choices to protect the health of our citizens and therefore it was right in the decree to reiterate, apart from the easy irony of someone, the model for differentiated bands that I remembered before (red, orange and yellow). And it is even more right to make an effort to make choices clearer, more transparent and more intelligible, making every effort to allow as much programming as possible for families, businesses and citizens in general. I believe that, given the difficult moment, we will have to gradually close this phase of decree. In Parliament we are in fact committed to progressively converting decrees-laws whose central regulatory content concerns the epidemiological emergency. I believe that we will have to go beyond this stage and open a new, more orderly programming, starting with vaccination. Above all, however, on the economic measures side, we will have to move from a subsidy and assistance mechanism to a progressive recovery and recovery of our economy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u61	Senator Collina is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u62	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I still have the conviction that the debates held in this House can represent a moment of fruitful confrontation between positions, capable of increasing the sense of responsibility that Parliament must put in place at a time like this. Therefore, despite all the limitations of this measure that have already been mentioned, I believe that the debate in progress is not to be put to the record, but to be used to make some progress together. I would therefore like to thank all my colleagues who have spoken and who have tried to interpret the debate in this regard. I'll try, too, for what it's worth, but I think it's absolutely an opportunity not to waste. Over the last few months we have constantly measured the inadequacy of the tools of relationship between Government and Parliament in dealing with the pandemic that has had an absolutely irregular and variable development, so as to prevent us from planning with certainty the actions and events and, therefore, the various discussions on what the instruments were, between decree-laws and DPCM, so as to allow us to interact in a positive and timely way with regard to the decisions that were to be implemented by the Government. This is a debate that we can take forward, but I think it is absolutely sterile at the moment. Let us focus on today's issues, which concern not only the pandemic, but also the political framework and the capacity of Parliament and the political forces to deal with the country's emergencies, which at this time are three. As for the health emergency and the pandemic crisis, we have not come out of it and we still need to deal with them significantly. The speeches we are discussing today, which have certainly already partially exhausted their effects, have served - some colleagues have provided the numbers - to allow a progressive decrease in daily infections and a reduction in virus transmission. Colleagues, we have said so many times that the transmission of the virus occurs through contact between people and moments of sociality and this element is definitely negative for our society and our communities, because it creates a strong contradiction: in the moment of difficulty, when people need to be close, it is being close that becomes the most dangerous factor for the transmission of the virus. This pandemic crisis must therefore be tackled today with determination and with the capacity to bring about co-responsibility. The game that we often witness, in which the Government imposes measures and the Presidents of the Region are opposed, but if an opposite measure had been imposed, the Presidents of the Region would have been equally opposed, is characteristic of a condition in which to live the responsibility and the ability to face the problem are themes open daily. The example of the school is obvious: at the time when the government said "we return to school," there were Presidents of the Region who said "no," we must keep it closed. So what are we talking about here, colleagues? We need more and more to put ourselves around these problems and together, correspondingly, to seek solutions, because in addition to the health crisis there is also an economic emergency that affects our country and the citizens in an absolutely uneven way. We must also bear in mind that our autonomous capacity to be in debt as a country to cope with this economic crisis is exhausted: with the last budgetary deviation, which we have all voted together, we have exhausted our ability to be in debt to cope with this economic emergency. We have only the resources of the recovery fund before us in order to face the revival of the country and the economic emergency. Then there is the social emergency, connected with the economic one. It is clear that the repercussions that will be on our country - and that we already see - when a whole series of measures will run out will put us in front of the need to face, I believe in an even more dramatic but certainly even more responsible way, the relationship with the citizens and with our communities. I think that in the face of these scenarios and these three emergencies (health, economic and social), Parliament should use moments of debate such as these to find common ground and try to give answers. This is today's theme that challenges all political forces, and above all those who have been part of a majority that today can no longer stand up to the Government, but that has managed to govern this country with responsibility in such a difficult period. Even with all the contradictions present in our country, which represent a given context with which we have been reckoning for years, we have put in place an ability to address the issues and a comparison that have led to the adoption of measures that, with all the limitations that we can find, have allowed us to give answers to the country until today. Could it have been better? Of course. Let me give you an example: the failure of tracking is under everyone's eyes. The containment of contagion, if there is no tracking, is certainly more difficult and necessarily leads to generalised lockdown actions and generalised restriction actions. This was an element that we have not been able to implement in the right way. But, in view of this, we must admit that our health system has been able to develop this year an experience capable of giving more and more adequate responses to the negative elements of the pandemic. In my opinion, we have also seen a very positive work of organization within the schools, which has allowed to refine a path of reintegration into the everyday school of the children. There is certainly more to be done in this area as well. However, I believe that those described are all evidence that we have found ways together this year to deal with this pandemic crisis. Now we must continue to seek ways and political conditions in order to move forward, because - I repeat - pandemic, economic and social crisis are at the door and our country needs unity in order to be able to face them in a positive way. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Ferro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u63	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, last week, when Senator Cioffi, during the debate on the umpteenth deviation, quoted the glucose cycle, I could not understand what it had to do with it and I became strong because if an authoritative senator of the majority cites the glucose cycle I can quote other things. I'm glad that undersecretary Castaldi is on the government desk. He is a fellow senator and he is a fellow football referee, like me, and I am referring precisely to the rules of football. As Undersecretary Castaldi knows, the rules of football are made up of 17 rules. When, however, you take the course for aspiring referee, they tell you that there is an eighteenth, the rule of common sense, that, as referee, you always have to apply if you want to apply the 17 formal and written rules well. This government and this majority - I am sorry, Senator Castaldi - absolutely do not apply the rule of common sense. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u64	Talk to the Presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u65	FERRO (FIBP-UDC). I express sympathy for both the Undersecretary Castaldi and for the Turkish Undersecretary, perhaps the only two Senators of the Movimento 5 Stars who enjoy my personal appreciation, at the political level clearly. What's going on and what's happened until today? I'll leave Senator Pagano the statement on the substance of the measure. We went on to sound economic bonuses when the economic crisis became structural: the pandemic crisis from exceptional crisis has turned - over a year ago - into structural crisis. To deal with it, the economic bonuses are no longer needed; references to the Ateco codes are no longer needed. We have seen how much confusion has happened in the application and we told you that we had to reason on the losses of turnover of all the companies because the crisis has involved indistinctly all the economic sectors of our country. Let me remind you of one that has been totally neglected by this Government. I am referring to the tourism sector: the whole tourism sector, the hotel sector, travel agencies, campsites and restaurants have been completely forgotten. [[Applause.]] 10:59 a.m. (Follow FERRO). The International Monetary Fund yesterday lowered the growth forecasts of our GDP compared to the forecasts of our Government as well. GDP will rise from a forecast of 5.2 percent to 3%. We're suffering badly. The legacy that the Government leaves us are 547 implementing decrees that are missing in order to implement the numerous decree-laws that you have issued this year. [[Applause]] He quotes it "Il Sole 24 Ore" this morning. This means that great proclamations and great conferences have been made, but in fact we are stuck; you are stuck. The economy is much more serious than what is granted: there is a widespread latent social tension that risks manifesting itself in unprecedented ways in our country, if we are not careful to play continuously with politics. On this day of Memory Day, I allowed myself to ask the President of my Group whether we should celebrate the founding of the Communist Party today. Just on this anniversary? [[Applause]] I'm sorry Senator Secret isn't here with us. We always applaud you when you enter the Chamber, but we do not respect you. We could have done it tomorrow or yesterday or next week. But what consistency is there? Gentlemen of the government, you're taking the country to a dangerous abyss. Stop, stop, because the risk is very serious. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u66	He's enlisted to speak Senator Briziarelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u67	Mr President, the first question we all ask ourselves is why it makes sense to discuss on 27 January 2021 the conversion of the so-called decree-Law on Christmas 2020, which was also approved by a government that resigned. [[Applause]] It makes sense because wandering is human, persevering evil, in the contents of the act that we are about to approve and above all considering the Premier and the Government that issued it. It makes sense because unfortunately we will still be in emergency at Easter and Christmas 2021. We should all remember the meaning of the decree of urgency and the decrees-laws: they should be issued only for necessity and urgency. Well, Count himself managed to beat two records: not only did he make the decree the rule, but he even made the decree-law exception to the river of decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers, with whom he risked and risks drowning the country. We must always remember this and not just say it ourselves: the administrative courts have begun to say it and God does not want the Constitutional Court to start saying that the mess was able to produce the Premier. I was saying that, at the base, there is necessity and urgency. The absurdity is that the need and urgency in which we live largely depends on the delays and inability of Premier and Arcuri. [[Applause]] The political condemnation came from the country and is coming from the political forces. We wait to see if there may be any other action against Arcuri even by the judiciary; we are curious to see it. The irony of the fate is that all this was done by a Premier chosen with the excuse of not giving the full powers to Salvini with the elections, but giving them to a person who has never been voted by anyone, who has never submitted to the vote and that those full powers used them really and also badly, as we see from the results. The sum in front of all this is that the majority (or former majority) is in the grip of a Stockholm syndrome: instead of wanting to the Government anyone apart from Count, given what he has done, a piece of the majority does not want anyone except Count, that is, a Premier who has the ability, the ease, would be to say the despicability to change color to his supposed majorities faster than the regions change color, going from yellow, to orange, to red, with a single constant, that is, the incomprehensible and absurdity of the motivations he adduces. So many examples could be given. My colleague Ferro proposed football examples, but he forgot one: we have a goleador on the contrary, a Premier who made his own goal to the country with the choices he took and with the measures that remain to be approved: 547 decrees and every decree not approved is a autogol to the country. [[Applause]] There could be many examples of absurdity. We were in the square on Monday with the restaurateurs, a category that collapsed in the face of the choices made: first we imposed important investments on them, promising reopening, if it had been safe, and then denying it. We denied the reopening of bars in the city, but not the trucks. We predicted curfew until 10 p.m., as if the virus were only circulating after and not before. We said that restaurants are dangerous - said the government - but not those of hotels (but on Christmas and New Year's Day also those of hotels). This is illogical, and you could go on. Do we want to talk about the school and everything the government hasn't done to reopen it safely? Everything is sacrificed on the altar of health, but what health are we talking about? It has begun to say from many quarters that we do not just die of Covid and not only in terms of delays, of possibilities for the regions, which have been put in difficulty instead of helping to deal with the ordinary health emergency, but also of psychological health of citizens, especially of children. It's not just about not dying, it's about living. There is no point in re-reading Durkheim's suicide about what happens during the holidays and how much suicides and depression increase, which a people are experiencing, because of the Prime Minister and the Government. There would be many other examples to make, which would make the picture even more bleak, but time does not allow me. I therefore conclude my speech with a proverb of popular wisdom, which reads: "Christmas with your parents, Easter with whomever you want." Christmas with your parents, you denied it to the Italians. However, the Italians have one thing clear: "Pasqua con chi vogli" except with Count Prime Minister of a Government. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u68	Senator Mollame is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u69	Mr President, I feel it is my duty to show respectfully my participation in the re-enactment, which the Presidency did this morning, for the Day of Remembrance. That said, gentle senators, senators and members of the government, it is clear to everyone how much this pernicious virus has affected the lives of all of us, even if it causes the end, for so many of us. They have left us relatives, friends, people dear to us and many other unknown, women and men who, in the silence of the numerous intensive therapies, did not make it. The virus has also affected parliamentary customs, so much so that today we are discussing a decree-law that has already partly carried out its main tasks, as some members of the opposition have already said, but so much so. We have had to adapt every measure, trying to mark, day by day, the onset of the pandemic phenomenon and trying to quickly dampen every incipit that proved to be the cause of an excessive increase in the phenomenon. The government has always been on the piece and today, at the end of the day, we can say that the restrictions made necessary during the Christmas period have borne fruit. It was "a Christmas with yours" more intimate and in a more resigned style, it was an act of love for the weakest, perhaps even in full Christmas spirit. This is a period which, from a climate point of view, is certainly favourable to the spread of the virus and would have been even more so if we had given free rein to our important emotional needs, which are also legitimate, during the period we have just gone through. The virologists have told us that the virus does not travel alone and makes use of the human medium, that is, of ourselves. Therefore, in order to safeguard the most precious good that we have, that is, our health and our own life and that of our neighbor and loved ones, we have had to adapt to different sacrifices and, probably, we will still be called to continue in this action of resistance. On this principle we have founded every measure, aware also of the inevitable repercussions on the economy, which we have already partially refreshed, with almost EUR 20 billion of grants, with the suspension of taxes, the Cassa Integrazione and so on. With the good will of all, we will certainly be able to come out even stronger. On this very point in Europe we have managed to open a single credit line in the history of the same. The decree also refers to the opening of our schools and just last Monday, following the invitation of some parents, I was a guest of a school manager to verify the state of affairs. Indeed, this was not the first time I visited a school. All of us have spent so many years of our lives, our growth and our training among the schools and also as adults it is always a strong emotion to come back. The basic institution is the school, structure and foundation of our society. On the occasion of this visit, even improvised, I was able to see the great work done by the manager, the teachers and the entire staff. I have seen disciplined pupils follow the separate lanes along the corridors; I have seen the hygiene of desks and chairs at the change of time; I have seen a new school, new single-seater benches, new paintings, new screens, new computer equipment and even new doors in the classrooms. I also saw the doctors of the Special Care Continuity Unit (USCA) and the parents patients with their children in line to perform check swabs. I looked into it just a few hours ago and fortunately in that context the results of the swabs were all negative, both those made on Monday and Tuesday. It is a fact, a sample that represents the positive side of what happens in schools. I say that there are no schools or hospitals, but there are women and men who do schools and hospitals; there are jobs, passion, commitment and responsibility for each of us and the Italians are responding with extraordinary common sense to an equally extraordinary phenomenon, that common sense which perhaps at this particular moment has been lacking in this House. The vast majority of the Italian people do not conceive of the events of the Palace and certainly no one can blame them. We do not conceive - I do not personally conceive it myself - especially the timing. There is a place and there is a time for every event and for every event, wanted or not wanted. Expected that this place is the right place to demonstrate democratically every note, it certainly appears out of phase today to unleash a pandemonium in full pandemic, pass me the term even strong, but so much so. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u70	The general debate is closed. The government representative does not intend to intervene. At this point, in view of the need to proceed with the sanitisation of the House, I suspend our work for an hour. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 11.14 a.m. and resumed at 12.17 a.m.) Colleagues, please take your seats. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and on the amendments, which will be published in the annex to today's report. The Presidency, in accordance with what has been reported in the course of the examination in the referent, declares impossible, pursuant to article 97, paragraph 1, of the Regulation, for extraneousness of matter with respect to the contents of the decree-law, the amendments 1.4, 1 -ter.3, 2.0.6, 2.0.7. 2.0.9, 2.0.10, 2 -bis.0.8, 2 -bis.0.0.9, 2 -bis.0.11 and 2 -bis.0.12.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u71	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u72	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1, tabled by Senator Augussori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.2 has been changed to agenda G1.2, on which I would ask the representative of the Government to give his opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u73	Mr President, the Government's opinion is favourable.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u74	Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G1.2 will not be put to the vote. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.3 tabled by Senator Augussori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.4 is not possible. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.1, tabled by Senator Augussori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 1-a of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u75	Mr President, I am against all the amendments to Article 1-a.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u76	Let us move on to amendment 1- bis.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 1- bis.1, tabled by Senator Vitali and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1-a.2, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 1- bis.2 tabled by Senator Vitali and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 1-b of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u77	Mr President, I am against all the amendments to Article 1b.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u78	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1-b.1, tabled by Senator Augussori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1-b.2 tabled by Senators Zaffini and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1-b.3 is unacceptable. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 1-c of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u79	Mr President, I am against all the amendments to Article 1-c.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u80	Let us move on to Amendment 1-c.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1-c.1 tabled by Senator Augussori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1-c.2 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 1-c.2 tabled by Senators Zaffini and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1-c.3, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 1-c.3, tabled by Senators Zaffini and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1-c.4 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 1-c.4 tabled by Senators Zaffini and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Caligiuri, on amendment 1-c.5 the 5th Commission gave a non-obstacle opinion conditional on a rewording. CALIGIURI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I accept the proposal for a rewording made by the 5th Commission. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1-c.5 (text 2), tabled by Senator Caligiuri. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 1-d of the Decree-Law, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u81	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u82	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1-d.1, tabled by Senator Grassi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1-d.2 tabled by Senators Zaffini and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 1-e of the Decree-Law, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u83	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u84	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1-e.0.1, tabled by Senators Zaffini and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1-e.0.2, tabled by Senators Zaffini and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 2 of the Decree-Law, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u85	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u86	Let us move on to Amendment 2.2, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.2 tabled by Senators Zaffini and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2.3, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I call for a simultaneous vote by ballot of the first part of Amendment 2.3, tabled by Senator Augussori and other senators, up to the words "400 million euros." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 2.4. are therefore excluded. Let us move on to Amendment 2.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the request has been made, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.1 tabled by Senators Zaffini and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2.5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on the first part of Amendment 2.5, tabled by Senator Vitali and other senators, until the words "190 million" are added. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 2.6 to 2.10 are therefore excluded. We move on to amendment 2.11, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the request has been made, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.11, tabled by Senators Zaffini and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 2.12 on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.12 tabled by Senator Zaffini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 2.13 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.13 tabled by Senator Augussori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2.0.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 2.0.1, tabled by Senator Augussori and other senators, up to the words "€345 million." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 2.0.2 are therefore excluded. Let us move on to Amendment 2.0.3 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.0.3 tabled by Senator Vitali and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2.0.4 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.0.4 tabled by Senator Augussori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2.0.5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.0.5, tabled by Senator Vitali and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 2.0.6 and 2.0.7 are unacceptable. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.0.8, tabled by Senator Augussori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 2.0.9 and 2.0.10 are unacceptable. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 2-a of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u87	Mr President, the Government is against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u88	Let us move on to Amendment 2-a.0.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment No 2-a.1 tabled by Senator Zaffini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2-a.0.2 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2- bis.0.2, tabled by Senator Zaffini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2-a.0.3 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 2- bis.0.3, tabled by Senators Zaffini and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2 -bis.0.4 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 2 -bis.0.4 tabled by Senator Zaffini and other senators, up to the words "a contribution". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 2 -bis.0.5, 2 -bis.0.6 and 2 -bis.0.7 are therefore excluded. Amendments 2-a.0.8 and 2-a.0.0.9 cannot be proposed. Let us move on to Amendment 2-a.0.10, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment No 2-a.0.10 tabled by Senators Zaffini and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 2-a.0.11 and 2-a.0.12 cannot be proposed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2-a.0.13 tabled by Senator Steger and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u89	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u91	Parent (IV-PSI). Mr President, I would first like to announce, on behalf of the Italian Group of the Italian Socialists' Party, the vote in favour of converting Decree-Law No 172 into law, with additional urgent provisions to address the health risks associated with the spread of the Covid-19. In this measure there are some virtuous elements, such as keeping together the protection of the health of citizens and, at the same time, economic aid in the form of a non-refundable contribution to the specific activity of catering services. This contextuality is also due to the government action of our Ministers, beginning with Senator Teresa Bellanova, but it is useless to hide that such contextuality is not yet accompanied by a just and necessary programming of economic activities, in particular catering, with measures that have all too often arrived late, preventing economic activities, in particular bars and restaurants, the right programming. It is paradoxical, moreover, that today we are discussing norms that have already exhausted their effectiveness (this decree, so-called Christmas, concerned norms, precisely, for the Christmas period). This is in contradiction to the need to give timely answers, to plan the same, as I said before, and in this measure all the criticalities emerge in the management of the pandemic: a proliferation of norms and a de facto monocameralism, which also today prevents the Senate from putting hand to these norms. There is an amendment, however, in this provision, which affects paragraph 1 of Article 1 of Decree-Law No 19 of 25 March 2020, which extends to fifty days - I remember that there were thirty previously - the maximum duration of measures to combat the spread of the Covid-19 virus. This rule has, of course, also been agreed in order to avoid the distortions I was talking about earlier, but of course when we establish certain provisions we must always bear in mind the principle of adequacy and proportionality of these provisions. The measure also contains provisions on the manifestation of consent to the health treatment of the vaccine for the Covid-19 for persons unable to hospitalize in assisted health facilities. This is a fair and important rule, supported and amended in the course of work in the other branch of Parliament. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on vaccines, let me say once again that we are fully aware that one of the key elements of this challenge, perhaps the most important one, namely the amount of vaccine doses we will be able to have, is at this moment out of our control, because it depends on the quantity of vaccines produced and the European Union's supply capacity. We have made a right choice: to promote unitary negotiation at European level. However, if the production capacity of pharmaceutical companies is a factor outside our control, the readiness to react to an increase in this capacity is in our hands and there are still no satisfactory answers to this. I have already had the opportunity to say to the House that, although we now have a shortage of doses, it is easier to vaccinate health workers in the hospital than to organize a huge mass vaccination campaign, which is a very different undertaking and for which we must prepare ourselves in time. To date, the vaccination plan has not been adapted to delays in the arrival of vaccination doses and is however based on clear guidelines from which the actual priority categories for vaccination are not included. An example for all, but very significant, is the fact that it is not yet clear whether people with disabilities will be included among the priority categories, nor what is meant by fragility. Still, it is not known whether and when non-hospital health care and even basic doctors will be vaccinated and there is no detailed organisational plan to have a system to ensure that all available vaccines are inoculated as soon as possible. When the arrival of the doses resumes its pace, we will have to ensure precisely this, namely the speed with which the vaccines are administered. Net of the enormous criticalities related to the relationship between the state and the regional competences, there is then the theme of the force used with the Regions to impose the closures. We have said many times in this House that it must be the government's responsibility to impose on the regions a unitary vaccination plan. In addition, one issue that I particularly care about is a single surveillance plan and buffers in all regions. Then there is the question of school, which has been repeated several times in this House. A rule contained in the measure under consideration establishes the teaching activity in the presence of 50%. In the Health and Health Commission, together with the Public Education Commission, we are examining an assigned affair concerning the impact of integrated didactics on the psychophysical balance of children. Well, we are neglecting this situation, of which we will see the effects in the coming months, perhaps years. This is the strongest criticism of the government's action expressed in this Assembly: do not have a precise strategy, nor a country vision to help and carry our boys and our girls by the hand and support especially families in this difficult phase. The lack of physical contact concerns the humanity of people and is a very profound issue. We absolutely must intervene, and so far we have not done enough. In order to re-open schools safely - and we should have done so - we absolutely need to resolve the transport situation and provide buffers for children in all schools. This has not been done. I should like to end by repeating what I said earlier on the occasion of Mr Hope's communication, namely that this must be the beginning of a new phase. In fact, we know that in the first phase the virus took us as an enemy behind us and all of us were unprepared. In the second phase we built weapons, but these do not serve without an overall strategy and vision, to understand what kind of war we must fight and where to arrive. Now, at this stage, citizenship and the productive categories need exactly this: a strategy and a vision not only to get out of the emergency, but for the future, because the world, Italy and our country will no longer return as before. At the same time that we have to get out of this epidemic day by day, if we don't have a strategy and an overall vision we won't make it. I think that's what the country needs right now. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u92	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u94	Mr Zaffini (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will give you an example of what we are deciding and also what we are talking about, because sometimes there is no connection between measures and real life outside the Palace. In recent days the Government has decided to put Sardinia in the orange zone, after it had been yellow, leaving Campania instead in the yellow zone. The last reading is from the day before yesterday. The reason given is that the week before Sardinia appeared to have committed 31 percent to intensive care instead of 30 percent. Basically, it was fifty - two busy beds, instead of fifty. By virtue of this fact, an entire region has been subjected to a regime such as that of the orange zone which, as I hope you know, ladies and gentlemen, is a regime that basically destroys all activities - obviously for the time when they are subject to this regime - and undermines their development. I repeat, for two places, two beds occupied in the ICU. It should be noted that Sardinia had notified the Ministry that it was precisely in those days that the additional places of intensive care were in operation, which then took place after only three days. Nevertheless, the Ministry has moved Sardinia from yellow to orange, while maintaining, paradoxically, Campania in the yellow zone. Colleagues, there is a clear political use of restrictions. Sardinia has an area of 24,090 square kilometers and is, as everyone knows, an island, therefore probably isolated or in any case more protected than other territories; it has a population of 1.650.000 inhabitants, with a density of sixty-nine inhabitants per square kilometer. Campania, still yellow, has 5,900,000 inhabitants living in an area of about 13,670 square kilometers, with a density six times higher than Sardinia, that is, 423 inhabitants per square kilometer (against the sixty-nine of Sardinia). The day before yesterday Campania had 1,150 new cases of infection, while Sardinia had new infections for 190 cases. The obvious inability of this Government materializes in this example. Examples serve to show how words translate into concrete deeds. It is quite clear that there has been a political use of restrictions to the detriment of the regions governed by the center-right. I've shown it to you about this particular case. I could do at least six or seven more plastic examples on this occasion, which is very serious. This last act that we are about to convert or, better, that we are required to convert - as far as we are concerned, I am now announcing our vote against its conversion - precisely because the last of a majority and an experience of government lends itself to be the subject of a budget, which falls just under a year or so from the emergency, which constitutes a further budgetary reason. There are three or four elements that leave us absolutely satisfied with the understanding of what has happened in the experience of this Government. The two major issues that the Government has faced at this time were the economic emergency and the health emergency. I have already made this argument in this House, but since I continue to listen to speeches - the last not later than this morning in the Commission - in which some majority representatives continue to recite the litany of Italy as an example for other countries of Europe, emphasizing that the measures taken by Italy have been fumigated here and there and that the industry magazines have divinized the work of the government that is going home, I wanted to tell you that the two major themes of the health emergency and the economic emergency that occurred following the explosion of the pandemic today achieve two plastic results. On these issues, with a sustained expenditure on cash and not due to the competence of almost 100 billion, the two plastic results are the record of the greatest reduction of GDP for the economic measures side and the record of deaths - colleagues, if you prefer to say so to the beautiful souls - of deaths of all the countries of the world in proportion to the resident population. These results, now before everyone's eyes and which are judged by everyone on the basis of their numerical data, except by those who are in bad faith who want to see more, should suggest us at least from here on forward to change the register - President, I do not say to change attitude because for that we have now lost all hope - about the quality of the measures that are taking place. At this point the reasoning refers to the two macro strands. On the economic side, the restaurants must be recognized on the basis of chromaticism - you have adopted this colour selection of the Regions - and, that is, in proportion to the restrictive measures, which has not been so far. There has been a qualitative defect in the ristori and a quantitative defect in their size which - please remember, all of you - has been estimated at around 7% of the losses incurred not for the market, but because of the government's restrictive measures. The other enormous issue concerns the funds that should come under a series of measures that the Italian State must adopt and which, at the moment, it does not seem to be adopting (but I do not even think I can foresee them). The story linked to the recovery fund funds, however, has entertained you only on political issues, excluding the big issue of serious debate to be undertaken, beginning with the Regions, for a project of effective restart. On the health issues side, we are still only making 100,000 swabs a day: it is shameful, ladies and gentlemen. The Marche Region, chaired by our representative, my colleague Francesco Acquaroli, in recent days has adopted a deep screening measure, which has given extraordinary results in terms of detecting asymptomatic positives. Our experience, here in the Senate, regarding the carrying out of rapid swabs, is giving extraordinary results. How can one deny this circumstance, which must see us obliged to make about 600,000 swabs a day? I hope that someone will eventually explain to us the paradox for which we continue to make 90-100-110-120,000 swabs, when we are obliged to identify the asymptomatics in circulation. The cure protocols still don't exist. You don't know what Aifa's doing. You don't understand how monoclonal antibodies work. You can't tell what happened to hyperimmune plasma. We had an emergency, colleagues, that of the Covid-19, which concerned everyone. But you put the load on it, the burden. You have been arranged for an additional emergency. Your obvious inability is now certified by numerical data one year after the pandemic explosion. Apologize and let's all go pick another government with a vote. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u95	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u97	RUOTOLO (Mixed). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we are once again in the House to convert a decree-law into law, which entered into force on the occasion of the Christmas holidays at the end of the year to strengthen the measures for the containment of contagion by Covid-19. The present law is Decree-Law No 172 of 2020. These measures take measures that do not like, temporarily close economic activities, ask people to avoid gatherings, limit individual freedoms. For almost a year now we have been in full pandemic, in fact, in full syndemia, because in addition to the disease there is poverty, because the epidemic is impoverishing our people. Nearly 2.5 million citizens have been infected, 86.500 are the dead. In Britain, more than 100,000 victims were killed. There are almost half a million positives in our country today. These are, therefore, measures which do not like them, but which must be taken to ensure the health of citizens. In the decree-law in question there are provisions that also affect the progressive resumption of school activity in presence, as well as the health treatment for the vaccine anti Covid-19 for those unable to hospitalize in health care facilities. The Decree-Law also provides for the granting of a grant to persons who carry out activities prevailing in the areas of catering services, in view of the limitations on their activities established during the Christmas season. The aim is to support operators in the economic sectors affected by the restrictive measures. Finally, an article also identifies a tax credit for rental of properties for non-housing use. As we understand, the decree-law in question is therefore part of an overall strategy, which has had its consistency in all these months, decree after decree, adopting rigour through containment measures. For this reason, rightly, measures have been considered, on the one hand, that have allowed not to abandon the necessary rigour during the holidays, defining different scenarios, with the forecast of consequent punctual measures in relation to the evolution of the risk, on the other, measures of refreshment lost, important for the operators of the catering services, particularly affected. The epidemic that has changed the world has already had dramatic repercussions in our country. These numbers, with the choices taken, testify, however, to the flexible approach that Italy had towards the emergency, trying to modulate the contrast measures on the basis of the data and the decrease or recurrence of the virus. This approach has been implemented throughout Europe and in most Western countries. It is a method that has maintained or attempted to keep together both health protection and the containment of economic effects. No country has managed to prevent the arrival of the second wave of the virus. There are countries like Germany, which still question and adopt more stringent lockdowns. Definitely in our country the loosenings of the summer period have favored the resumption of the contagion and the beginning of the autumn period has favored its further development. It should be clear, at this point, that the strengthening of measures was the only fully responsible response to the danger of an even more dramatic surge in infection. Don't do that would have meant a very high price. Today the powerful weapon of vaccines lets us see the only possible way out of the pandemic crisis, but for the immunity of flock it will take months - we must say - if the vaccination plan does not encounter further slowing down. We already know that, with the budgetary deviation voted a few days ago, a new phase of refreshments will be opened, which will have to be even more focused and fair and will have to be redirected, especially in favour of those who have had great losses in turnover and those who have received little or nothing so far, in order to keep alive the widespread Italian entrepreneurial heritage. The crisis we are experiencing has ancient roots and the pandemic has only brought out, in all its drama, the system crisis and the need for a new model of development, based on ecological transition, the fight against inequalities, the reduction of the gap between North and South, strategic investment in public health, school, training and public administration. 13.02 p.m. (Follow RUOTOLO). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government who resigned yesterday, we are at a difficult time, in the midst of a political crisis, which none of us would have wanted and which many of us consider irresponsible. The way to avoid early voting is narrow. Today President Mattarella begins the consultations. We of the majority of the Mixed Group, the Senators of LEU, are with Conte, for the remand to President Conte. Of course, we are for a new Count Government, with a stronger majority and a parliamentary pact. Starting with the conclusions, I therefore announce the vote in favour of the so-called Christmas Decree-Law, in approval, of the Senators of LEU and of the majority of the Mixed Group. People first! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u98	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u100	Mr Parrini (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am voting in favour of the Democratic Party Group's conversion into law of this decree-law, which gives us another opportunity to make a general reflection on the strategy of countering the pandemic, which we have put in place in our country. I believe that every time we talk about this issue, we must remind those who listen to us and ourselves of the gravity of the tragedy that has struck the world, not only Italy and not just Europe. Mr Rotolo mentioned some figures. I just want to point out that yesterday we exceeded 100 million cases in the world: the dead are more than 2.1 million. We see around us nations in which the present conditions of contagion are far worse than those in Italy. We must therefore make a proper reflection on the gravity of the phenomenon that we are called to analyze, without indulging, in my opinion, in poor polemics or in vanguard jokes that, unfortunately, sometimes we feel and of which we have been given a gift today. I say this because seriousness seems to me to be the first duty that the ruling class, which occupies positions of responsibility in the institutions, must fulfil. Even with regard to the individual measure we are examining today, I think we would be wrong if we denied that in contrast to this totally new situation some mistakes were also made, that there was some deficiency, some limit or some insufficiency. These things have happened and there is no country in the world in which it did not proceed for attempts and errors; even in Italy this was the reality. I think, however, that, on the basis of a budget which now includes so many acts of law and which covers a period of almost a year, we can say, without the issue of denial, that we can go head-to-head for what we have managed to do in terms of combating contagion and pandemics. I also believe that it is necessary to deconstruct some common places that are repeated in bursts, in the illusion that, repeating a false thing, the intensity of repetition makes it become a truth. I think there are arguments on which this game cannot be made and that the death penalty in our country is just one of them: we should put everything into the political controversy to attack the government, except the number of deaths for Covid-19, used as a sword to say that the government has worked badly. [[Applause]] By now there is not a single serious research - obviously the serious adjective is decisive - that does not say that the high number of deaths in relation to the population, which unfortunately we record in Italy, has nothing to do with the efficiency of government action, which is measured on other parameters on which Italy is instead in good position. I am referring, for example, to the vaccination campaign in terms of the percentage of doses administered on those available; I am referring to the places in intensive care and the level of investments in health care. This serious research tells us that unfortunately Italy is in a position of extreme weakness as to the lethality of the virus for two fundamental data. The first is the incidence of the population over eighty years of age on the total population: in Italy, over eighty years of age are 7.2 percent of the total population; in Spain and France, there are 5.1 percent, while in Germany, there are less than 6%. This means that we are placed at a much higher level than those of the countries with which we are confronted and this makes us extremely vulnerable. The other element that makes us weak with regard to the lethality of the virus and on which we should reflect, because we are used to thinking of it as a positive figure under normal conditions, is that the average size of households in Italy is much higher than that which can be recorded in all other European countries, because we, in some ways fortunately - and we know how fortunately - have a very large number of households in which grandparents, children and grandchildren live together and we all know how much the spread of the virus has used the intrafamiliar channels to expand massively. I think that these figures should be reflected in the institutions. Of course, then it is also necessary to analyse the limitations of territorial medicine and to promote the development of digital medicine. Think, for example, of something as important as what our Government announced today: the decision to enter the capital of a Roman society, ReiThera, which is developing a vaccine in our country. It is very important that the state is given a leading role in an operation that could give us a very great benefit in the medium term, in the context of a vaccination campaign that will certainly commit us for many more months. I do not have much time at my disposal, but I would like to stress one element of the decree today which I consider to be particularly important in our examination. We decided to face the Christmas period, which seemed to us, and was, loaded with many risks, with the choice to implement a degree of strong and important restrictions, but lower than what we had introduced with previous decrees, allowing sufficient mobility so that people could see themselves, at least at minimum levels, at a time of the year that is very important for affections, for families and for interpersonal relations. Criticism of the setting of that decree has been advanced; but today, in the second phase of the second wave, we see that Italy has emerged from that period with results, in terms of contagions and mortality, much better than in many other countries, sign that those measures, so calibrated and so differentiated territorially (the system of colors, the systematic comparison with the Regions and the use of shared indicators), although they are not perfect (there is nothing perfect in the face of such a new phenomenon), have produced significant results. Let's focus on the data we are seeing in recent weeks, which are probably the effect of the Christmas phase: we have a lower number of infections and we also see that in some neighbouring countries we often and willingly exceed the number of 1,000 deaths per day, which is definitely not happening in Italy. I will conclude by saying that of course we cannot do an analysis of the health strategy against the pandemic from Covid-19 without devoting part of our attention to the strategy of combating the economic crisis that the pandemic has produced. In this case, too, I would avoid quoting data in vain, devalue the government's activity, use the fact that we are in a crisis situation, that we are all concerned and that we all hope to be able to resolve with a majority enlargement and with a reinforced government team that can continue to lead our country at this difficult time. It seems to me that using these circumstances to make analyses that are completely detached from reality really serves little. The bottom line is that we have committed, in these eleven months, EUR 140 billion to support businesses, self-employed workers and millions of employees through the extension of social shock absorbers. This is a massive support operation, which is showing the weight it will shed on our future. We have entered the pandemic with a public debt of 120 percent of GDP and will emerge with a public debt probably around 160 percent of GDP; an increase of 40 points of debt normally occurs during a war and, in this sense, that to the coronavirus is also a war. I think that we have avoided social conflicts by arguing more that we could our economy, also in relation to our starting public debt. The real question that now arises, even considering the need to build a good recovery plan, is how to produce in the coming years a level of growth, investment and productivity expansion so as to make sustainable that greater burden that we have loaded on our shoulders to fight well against the virus. This is the topic that will be of today, tomorrow and the day after tomorrow: modernising our economy and making it increasingly prone to growth and investment. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u101	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u103	PAGE (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Forza Italia Group, I have the honour to represent the indications of Forza Italia's vote, which will obviously be of opposite meaning, as has always been the case with the other 32 decree-laws that have already been proposed by the Conte bis Government since the beginning of this pandemic. This demonstrates the fact that, as we have pointed out several times, even on the occasion of the question referred precisely to Decree-Law 172 of 2020 - known to Italian citizens as a Christmas decree because of the restrictions on individual freedom imposed during the Christmas season - we think that bulimia, the abuse of the so-called urgent decree is inappropriate and absolutely inconsistent, also in view of what has happened in the past months. The centrality of Parliament has been seriously affected by this and we have a duty to remember this in this context as well. Having said that, I have just listened to Mr Parrini's speech in an explanation of vote for the Democratic Party and I must say that in his premise I have taken a kind of humility in admitting that, in this pandemic, in the course of this very serious health problem which has brought about many other problems of an economic nature, mistakes have been made, and so many have been committed. It is right that Parrini should remember this, but it is even more important that an opposition group should do so. Thank you, Minister Patuanelli, if you leave, it's better!
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u104	Senator Pagano, please, the Minister was in the Chamber, was speaking and was not sitting on the benches of the Government, so please maintain a certain education towards the same. [[Applause]] PAGE (FIBP-UDC). It bothered me. I couldn't speak because when we get together in this House, I can't. [[Applause.]] Senator, there was no gathering, otherwise I would have intervened. And I don't think it's appropriate to applaud when the seating space is not even respected. I would kindly ask colleagues to leave the benches of the Government free so that the Minister can listen to the speech. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u105	If you'll excuse me, ma'am, I was just disturbed, okay? In fact, I also like Mr Patuanelli.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u106	Let's move on, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u107	PAGE (FIBP-UDC). Having said that, I want to say that, at least as far as this umpteenth measure is concerned, it is right that we should remember - as admitted by the Democratic Party - that most of the interventions to counter infection from Covid-19, in the light of the facts, especially given the health emergencies, have proved inefficient and ineffective compared to what we wanted to understand. We are well aware - as we have already pointed out - that in so many areas it has been completely wrong; we know what has happened, for example, in local public transport, as well as in relation to the management of our elderly, the need to intervene, for example, on the real outbreaks of contagion, that is, families. We didn't intervene, we didn't have the ability to intervene - you of the government didn't. [[Applause]] - to try to give real comfort to the health problems. Therefore, even on this occasion we have a duty to remember it, just as we have a duty to say that in the decree-law at our examination the need to intervene with a division in different color zones of the national territory had its own meaning, but there has been an incredible confusion in the attribution of the yellow, orange or red zones; a disaster has been brought about. [[Applause.]] That's the truth. The last case, that of the Lombardy Region, for which there has been a ripple of responsibility between the Region and the National Government, is yet another, last, but significant and eloquent example of how much the system, above all in the relationship between Regions and the State, between Government and Regions has not worked. The Permanent Conference for Relations between the State, the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces has not clearly and clearly attributed the competences that belong to the State as well as to the Regions, even if health is the exclusive competence of the Regions. There are situations of national emergency where it would be better to clarify but unfortunately, during this year of pandemic, this has not happened. The measure under consideration, however, has been supplemented by some interventions in terms of refreshment that are also good for us; however, it is right to remember here that the refreshments - and this was the fifth time they were attributed by this Government - have also been completely inadequate in this circumstance. [[Applause]] In fact, I would like to remind you that for ten of the fourteen days of Christmas holidays, the allocation of the red zone has been planned throughout the country, which has meant for many productive activities, in particular in the catering and tourism sector, the absolute closure, the lowered shutters and problems of various kinds. [[Applause]] On the other hand, it should be borne in mind that, especially in the catering sector but also in the tourism sector, there was the possibility, especially on the part of many locals, of being able to maintain catering activities without problems of a pandemic nature or in any case related to contagion. There was a need for better organisation, a great deal of confusion, so much damage has been done, and the rest of this measure has proved to be totally inadequate in relation to needs. I would like to recall some data that alarmed me, according to which, in practice, if we go to distribute the interventions on the catering activities, out of a total of about 645 million, it turns out that each activity has received more or less 2,000 euros when we know well that only 367 star restaurants in our country have an average turnover ranging from 700,000 euros to 1.5 million annual, for almost 260 million total turnover. So we are talking about 334,000 catering activities, which is the highest number in Europe. Italy focuses on catering [[Applause]] Italian food likes not only Italians, but also others and our GDP is also very dependent on this activity. We therefore believe that this is absolutely inadequate, and that is another reason why we are absolutely dissatisfied with the measure under consideration. In the same way, we remember the sense of responsibility and above all the fact that Forza Italia, in the end, does not root for its faction but for the Italian people, for the Italians. Also on this occasion we have remembered - I do now - that we have voted for yet another deviation of budget of 32 billion euros and we will vote the next decree-restoration laws [[Applause]] which has not yet been approved by the Government, guiltyly late because of the well-known issues and disputes that led to the government crisis until the resignation of the President of the Council of Ministers. Having said that, I would like to conclude my speech in an explanation of vote and say that we had to do better and more. Forza Italia always has a constructive attitude, says our leader Berlusconi, said our President Bernini on many occasions, in many explanations of vote, even in the presence of the discussion on the crisis of government that took place last week. With this I would like to say that the problems related to the solution of the crisis of government must not prevent this country from moving forward, because the stopover, the interruption of every activity of government is creating an incredible and irresponsible damage to the activities of Italians. [[Applause]] In conclusion, as I mentioned in the debate on the question referred to you, the simple majority that you have here in the Senate makes it clear and clear that the use of the decree of urgency is no longer acceptable or admissible. In my opinion, the use of the urgent decree is even unconstitutional without an absolute majority and with only a simple majority: this must be remembered. [[Applause]] Also with regard to this, I announce that the Forza Italia Group will present a package of constitutional reforms. [[Applause]] After reducing the number of Members, you promised to make a series of reforms that you did not do. Forza Italia will prove once again to be responsible and will deposit, within a few days, a constitutional reform that will allow, even in the event of an early vote, to return to the polls. Forza Italia votes "no"! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u108	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u110	GRASSI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the decree-law we are debating today contains rules already known to us, because it is concerned with the rules governing the movement of Italians on national territory. He then took an interest in the treatment of disabled people, who were admitted to health care facilities, and was also interested in the distribution of certain refreshments to certain categories. I would like to make a quick reference to this last profile: once again we are in the presence of a distribution of absolutely insufficient funds; we continue to see a distribution according to criteria that we could define as horas, on a case-by-case basis, hypothesis by hypothesis, forcing the beneficiaries to follow the rule that applies to them. This certainly does not help the order, clarity and quality of the relationship between the citizen and the State. As for the rules governing movement on the territory, I would say that it is now before our eyes that these rules have lost their effectiveness and I do not say that because some of them already concern periods behind us, but because Italians no longer understand anything and proceed in common sense. [[Applause]] People no longer know where and when they can move; Italians are self-regulating and the rules we approve are now absolutely self-referential. I could stress once again how damaging it is for the legal system to introduce rules that are so twisted and difficult to read. If we have to tell the citizens where, how and when to move and the rules are difficult for us to understand that we write and study them and are difficult to understand even for lawyers, let alone for those who do anything else in life and want to have an answer to a simple question: can I go to my relatives? When can I go? Under what conditions? It is not clear from the rules. By now the legal source is only read in the newspaper; by now our Official Journal is no longer the one technically such, but it identifies itself in the media. But so much so; I can take care of little, because all this legislation will become old, disappear and melt like snow in the sun. However, within this measure there is a part that renews the substantive law and that will remain. It's the part that I use as an example of the government's way of proceeding. I refer to Article 1-d; careful, it is a delicate and important rule that concerns the manifestation of consent to the treatment of the anti-Covid vaccine for those unable to be admitted to health care facilities. If you are familiar - and you are familiar with - with the rules that protect the weakest, you certainly know that this topic has already been dealt with by Law No 219 of 22 December 2017. A law intended by the previous legislature, which was led by the left, a law not of governmental origin, but originated from the Chambers. This law, which has the merit of clarity, says, in summary, that the health treatment is decided by those who care for the poor and if by chance there is a dissent on the administration of the treatment, on the opinion of the treating doctor, we turn to the court to protect to determine once and for all whether that person is subject to the health treatment. The norm was already there, although perhaps it deserved some correction. Well, the legislator intervened under Article 1-d. The first two paragraphs - which I do not read so as not to lose your attention, assuming that there is - in an incredibly involuted way do nothing but repeat what we already know and is already present in the ordering. Proceeding, the following paragraphs, simplifying, say that the one who has the task of deciding whether or not to submit the unable to the treatment, must decide felt relatives of the incapable. The rule says that consent to processing cannot be given if these people refuse. Well, but the legislator, immediately afterwards, shows that he doesn't have the clear ideas, that he doesn't know what he's thinking because he specifies that if these people refuse, the health director of the facility turns to the judge to protect for the sole purpose of obtaining consent. Voice from the runaway sen. It is clear that in interpreting this part may mean that it is then decided whether to treat it or not, but the legislator, to be strict and limited to a literal interpretation, it seems to say that if the relatives say no it is necessary to say yes and the health director addresses the judge to protect in order to be authorized, i.e. only in order to obtain consent. It's not enough. If the protection court does not validate the consent and transmits it to the parties concerned within a short period of time, the consent shall be deemed to be automatically validated. Do you need all this? No, because the last paragraph of the norm substantially copies the 2017 provision and states that in the event of disagreement on the provision of the treatment we are addressed to the judge to protect, creating a further confusion in the application center, but forgetting, compared to the norm of 2017, that the last word must say the treating doctor, the one who knows the pathological conditions of these people. What emerges from all this? Firstly, a difficult-to-read rule that is not addressed to magistrates, lawyers or university professors, but to those who care for weaker people, people who are called to decide quickly what to do. Can you imagine them in the imminence of vaccination, perhaps in a state of emergency, reading this complicated article and understanding what it means, what it must and can be done? But the serious thing is that the whole article is written so as to obtain surreptitiously a compulsory vaccination hidden and disguised for the most fragile subjects. It could be a political choice and if it were a transparent and clear political choice, it would also be worthy of respect, because it would be suitable for discussion; but in this case you are introducing compulsory vaccination under disguised lies, without putting citizens in a position to understand what the situation is. Disabled people are not B-series citizens, they are not people to whom we can impose surreptitiously and disguise an obligation that we have not imposed on everyone else. They are citizens like us, so if vaccination has to be compulsory, if it is compulsory for everyone, but if it does not have to be compulsory, if it is not compulsory for anyone. [[Applause]] Otherwise, you are ruling by breaking the loyalty pact with Italian citizens and this is serious, because you do so by vulnering the order. What you write remains, is part of the positive order and tomorrow the damage to the clarity of the system will be what will remain of your work. Paraphrasing Manzoni, I would like to say that this Government must be told the clear things, because he then has to cheat them. Well, on the basis of these considerations, I declare the vote against - and I do so with pride, because in defense of the weakest - of the Group of the League-Salvini Premier-Party of Sardinian Action. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u111	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u113	DI MICCO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, how many times have we been here discussing together what and how many further restrictions were needed to stem the terrible pandemic emergency that struck us a year ago? Every time we are forced to lengthen the time limits of the norms or to make them more stringent, inside us lies the sad awareness that some categories will be more penalized than others and that it will be a bit harder for many to go ahead, resist, continue to hope and cultivate resilience, especially now, after months of direct observations of the causes. Ours, every time, is an inner battle that divides us between the priorities related to public health and those related to the economy and to the preservation of the social fabric. In the face of painful choices, as were those that took over the government of President Conte, we know that the measures that were put in place for the Christmas period are those that have avoided a dramatic increase in contagions, as certified a few days ago by the Gimbe Foundation. With a sense of responsibility, then, we have moved on with our conscience in place of those who know that they have done the right thing, many times reluctantly, because restricting freedom has never been a whim, but always and only a necessity and time has given us reason. The choices made in Italy have been taken as a reference model in Europe and the world. The measures of distancing and the obligation of personal protective devices have cushioned the blow and have led to a slow but gradual decline of the contagions. The impossible has happened to us - we should all have the courage to call it the name it deserves - and we have done everything we can to cope with its monstrous unpredictability, but certainly we have not been helped, in the management of the pandemic, by those who have been mostly committed to taking selfies with the first coffee of the morning [[Applause]] , just as it didn't help us the game of the contrary bastian operated by someone, it didn't help us who, even here in the Senate, refused to wear the mask participating in a conference of negationists, a page to say the least embarrassing that no one will forget, in the dramatic chronicle of this pandemic. [[Applause]] It certainly did not help us the narrative of the fake news, which contributed to fomenting movements and manifestations of negationists and conspiracyists. Italians have not benefited from this, nor from the ferocious exploitation of pain, just as they will not receive benefits from the absurdity of a government crisis opened by those who irresponsibly scalped to sit at the chair, thinking that they are perhaps the best at teaching, in a moment of extreme fragility for the country. Fortunately, however, citizens have been helped by all the resources put in place by the Government and by President Conte, who has always thought about how to support families, businesses and workers and how to modernise a country that has only heard of reforms in the last twenty years. Since the beginning of the pandemic, the Government and Parliament have launched interventions with a deficit impact, directly or indirectly linked to the Covid emergency, for about 140 billion euros, which rise to 165 considering the measures absorbed by the last budget law, at least for the first year of effectiveness. With the exception of the two budget laws, measures of EUR 108 billion were launched last year to deal with the pandemic, with the so-called crisis decrees (including the rest of the world). But there is not only this, because it must be remembered how our country has arrived at such an event of immense scope, loaded on the shoulders of all of us who have found ourselves ruling Italy in months that will be remembered as the darkest hour of recent years. During these months we have had to deal with all the flaws of previous political managements, starting with those that have reduced the National Health Service to a colabrode, with 37 billion euros of cuts made in the last ten years, which have led public health to get away from the values of universality and equitable accessibility. [[Applause]] The Movimento 5 Stars has reversed this dramatic route, investing in the last year about 13 billion euros. All this despite the drama of the limits of Title V of the Constitution, emerged in all their criticality, and of all those right-wing regional governments that over the years have favoured private health compared to public health, with the effects that, for example, can be seen in these days and in the last months in the Lombardy Region. Speaking of Regions, I would like to remind you that Sardinia, an orange zone and isolated as an island, as mentioned in the intervention of my colleague Zaffini, has communication routes such that in the summer months isolation has become a vehicle of contagion throughout Italy, also thanks to the decisions of the Sardinian Regional Council. [[Applause]] I would also remind you that geographical extension and population density are not absolute criteria and that there is a method defined by precise scientific criteria through the analysis of the now famous 21 indicators chosen to monitor the development of the pandemic. Over the last few months, we have also worked to offer a more objective view in the management of the pandemic. This period saw us working hard, day after day, always putting public health first, together with the awareness that all the necessary restrictions would have caused huge economic gaps to be filled, but also acting to transform the crisis into opportunities (from work to school, from the economy to the green turning point, from health to infrastructure). We never stopped, knowing that all the work we were doing would be diminished, misreported - even worse - and in many cases stolen. Yes, because we had another record besides being the first country to suffer the massive impact of the pandemic: always, constantly, have a Parliament divided exactly in half, with whom, on the one hand, was committed to building and on the other the serial demolition companies. [[Applause]] Mr President, despite all the work we have done, we have not yet defeated the virus, which remains a dangerous and still little known enemy. We finally have vaccines - it is a fundamental fact - and the Government immediately launched an imposing vaccination campaign that allowed Italy and the Italians to meet from the beginning at the top among the European countries by number of administrations. However, the news that arrives to us about the possible greater lethality of the English variant and the resurgence of the reinfections with the Brazilian one must necessarily keep us on the alert, even more so now, because for a few days there has been news of the delays that we will undergo in the deliveries of the vaccination doses from the producing companies; news that the oppositions of course have tried to ride speculating on the delays, as if it were the fault of the Italian government, but it is not, because the problem concerns all the European countries. This government has already moved, activating the state's bill to see the contracts respected. In fact, however much has been done, the situation is still delicate and so much remains to be done. This is absolutely not the time to lower our guard: we have understood it and we know it, as the citizens know, that together with us they have faced this painful unpredictable path, which has forced us all to learn. However, some have not learned, for example, that, if you really want to help the nation, the Member of Parliament is also doing so in this House and not only on TV. [[Applause]] or that attending the Senate of the Republic to try "discourses" three times a year does not mean representing the country, but themselves. Some have not learned that one can always find a time to make propaganda, but today, in the midst of a global health crisis, it would be time to make politics. Yesterday morning President Conte resigned his resignation in the hands of President Mattarella, and I - allow me this brief digression - feel I have to thank him on behalf of the Movimento 5 Stars and all Italians. [[Applause]] I warmly thank him, as well as for his commitment and achievements, for the discipline and honour that have characterized his entire mandate. [[Applause]] , as the entire nation could appreciate. What happened yesterday morning formalizes an alarming political fact: we are the only country where pandemic crisis and the prospect of a vacuum of power are woven into an explosive plastic that would mean loss of stability and trust in Europe. Despite the worrying political framework, we are also here today, once again, to confirm the right measures, and we do so with conviction, because data, numbers and science tell us that we cannot do otherwise. The next few days will tell us how much we will still have to be concerned about Italy and the Italians, because they will be paying pledge also for this strange crisis that no one has understood. Meanwhile, while waiting to understand what future awaits the nation, the Movimento 5 Star Group will continue to do its duty here in Parliament towards the country. For this reason and for all the reasons I have listed, Mr President, I am voting in favour. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u114	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, composed of only Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u115	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u117	CROATTI (M5S). Mr President, today, Wednesday, January 27th, is Memory Day, a anniversary celebrated every year to commemorate the victims of the Holocaust. I come from a land, Romagna, which paid a very high price during World War II. Just this year, Rimini, who was on the border of the Gothic line and was razed to the ground with 388 bombings, was chosen, thanks to the work of the prefect and the administration, as the city of memory of 2021. It is a great honour for us who are reminiscent. [[Applause]] Memory is the basis of our future. As the President recalled, on 27 January 1945 the gates of Auschwitz were cut down by the 60th army of the Soviet army. Remembering it today also means safeguarding our tomorrow, because the things we forget can come back. It is an important opportunity to nourish a sensibility in young people who, in addition to not having lived this historical period, have even fewer opportunities for confrontation with those who have been part and have suffered from it. The responsibility for remembrance year after year lies more and more with the institutions, which must be up to the values of what is most important. Unfortunately, both in Parliament and in our daily lives, too many political representatives choose to give up these moral principles on which our democracy was based, only to gain consensus. [[Applause]] Stimulating social conflict on the basis of fallacious and incomplete reasoning is regrettable, as well as risky. There has been evidence of the need to escort our Senator Liliana Segre, a woman who is once again risking safety in order to bring her testimony to us. [[Applause]] From this important place it is important to reiterate the condemnation of the atrocities that the Jewish people have suffered, renew an appeal and repudiate those hateful speeches that too crowd political and social discussions. Remembrance is neither a choice nor a political question; it is an awareness, which must belong to every man and woman capable of being reflected in democratic values. The hope is that these moments will also be lived in an interior way as personal reflection and growth for all. We are on the side of collective memory: it is important to keep it always in mind. Mr President, I conclude with a sentence by Saint Augustine: Even immersed in darkness and silence, I can, if I want, extract in my memory colors, distinguish white from black and from any other color I want. This can be memory: a lighthouse in dark and stormy nights. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u118	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u119	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u120	CORRADO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the crisis in government - which I regret personally - prevents me from hoping for an urgent questioning to Minister Franceschini, of being able to obtain a timely and timely response, as has always been his custom since autumn 2019. I am also addressing him, because the case I am going to explain is serious. I am referring to the DCCM No 169 of 2 December 2019, which finally established the much-awaited National Superintendence for the Underwater Cultural Heritage. This initiative has raised high expectations, which have also been exalted by the media. In recent days, everyone of us has seen on the press and television services that applaud this happy event. There is something wrong, however, and I am referring to the fact that, with the appointment of Dr. Barbara Davidde as Superintendent, through one of the usual procedures of non-competitive nature introduced by the Minister, this so-called Superintendence of the Sea has become operational, but one wonders what waters it is competent for. They are certainly not the internal ones (of rivers and lakes), but they are not even the territorial ones (of the seabeds, which extend for more than 100,000 square kilometers, of our sea). The DCCM to which I mentioned, that identifies as headquarters Taranto and as operating centers Naples and Venice, does not tell us however which are physically these centers, nor tells us anything of the personnel and operating means, and in fact, to date, the National Superintendence for the underwater cultural heritage consists of the sole Superintendent. That decree by the President of the Council of Ministers states, however, very categorically, that the hidden cultural goods within the competence of the Office are those between 12 and 24 nautical miles, then in international waters. This means that in reality the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, and not the Ministry for Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism, and then that the new superintendent and the new office, with special autonomy, cannot deal with either the inland waters or the seabed of our territorial sea, which remain the responsibility of the traditional superintendents. Then I wonder why, in a Ministry that has lost almost 10,000 units compared to the original organic plant, we continue to multiply the offices and increase the number of directors, sometimes even with special autonomy and relative cost, if they are not put in the conditions to work. Mr President, I should like to add one more detail. This Superintendence was ingeniously defined as Sea and Mountains, like the appetizer, because the superintendent of Taranto, as well as the waters, also has competence on Taranto city, on the territory and, probably, also has the interim assignment on Brindisi and Lecce. I would therefore ask the Minister to explain to us, as long as it is in time, what is happening in Puglia and in the Italian territorial waters. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u121	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u122	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u123	MAGORNO (IV-PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, once again Calabria is forgotten. The recovery plan, which should have represented an important turning point for this region, in fact ignores it, moving it further and further away from the rest of the country. Many Calabrian mayors in these days have made their voice of protest heard from their trenches, highlighting the real risk that even on this occasion, unique and unrepeatable, the rights and expectations of Calabrian citizens will be mortified. The day before yesterday, the ANCI Calabria steering committee unanimously reiterated the problems, omissions, inconsistencies and shortcomings of the recovery plan towards Calabria and the Calabrians. With their document the mayors want to raise awareness of MPs and senators of each side to take a clear and determined position in favour of Calabria, in order to modify a text that, although improved compared to the first draft, does not in any way affect the historical delays that humiliate our martyred land of Calabria. As Senator and, even earlier, as Mayor of Calabria, I will be at the forefront of fighting for the demands of the first citizens to be accepted in full. In this historical moment there are no mediations of any kind, no delays are permissible, no desertions are bearable, no hesitations are acceptable, no cleverness is permissible and no personal or political interests are conceivable. Calabria must be represented, protected and defended beyond any limit. It is useless to be scandalized in the face of the statements of Corrado Augias about a Calabria condemned to marginalization, if then the words do not follow concrete actions and aimed at filling the atavic deficits of this our Region. In recent weeks I have voted against the Calabria decree and, as Senator of the majority that was, I have therefore voted against trust in the Government. Also for the good of Calabria, I will also vote against the recovery plan, any Government will come to light in the next few days (if it comes to light), and I will do so to give a future and new prospects of growth to my land. Calabria is not a lost land, Mr President; it is an abandoned land, isolated, forgotten and used, which with great dignity and strength demands to have the same opportunities as other territories. It is true that it is full of contradictions and criticalities, but for a long time it has begun a path to overcome them, first of all with the fight against 'ndrangheta and the evil. Calabria is a land of men and women who have skills, skills, intelligence and tenacity to work effectively for the ransom of their community. However, the necessary resources and instruments must be made available to them. The recovery plan must also do this, and I will work and fight for this not to remain a dream, but to become a reality. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u124	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u125	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u126	MODENA (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I would like to speak because, among the requests which had been made to the Government and which I would like to reiterate here, while faced with a completely changed situation and picture, there is the one relating to the state of implementation of the implementing decrees (forgive the pun). As my colleague, Mr Ferro, has also mentioned here today, we know that the Government - indeed, President Conte - is inheriting important numbers, or 547 implementing decrees. This means that only 40 percent of the laws have had the necessary legs to produce effects. In particular, we still await the enactment of the implementing decrees relating to the liquidity decree-law and the decree-law relaunch. In many cases we have gone even beyond the deadlines and important measures remain pending, such as for the continuation of public works, or the decree for the Fund for the safeguarding of employment levels, or those concerning the refreshment of local authorities for the lack of income linked to the tourist tax and employment of public spaces. It is therefore necessary, in our view, to refer in Parliament to the state of implementation of these decrees, the reasons for the delays and the measures that are to be taken, since half of them relate, among other things, to the emergency from Covid-19. Considering that this emergency requires efficient management, we therefore think it is necessary to really understand how much we are talking about and what has been done, with reference to the various rules approved since the beginning of the pandemic to date. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u127	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-296.ana.u128	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 2 February, at 4 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting is closed (14:03 p.m.).
