ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.30 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. MARGIOTTA, secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u6	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, thank you for giving me the floor. I asked to speak in order to ask the Senate Presidency to urge the Minister of Justice Cartabia to come to this House as a matter of urgency for a government communication on the tortures inflicted on prisoners in the prison of Santa Maria Capua Vetere by prison police personnel. [[Applause]] Mr President, I have rightly used the term torture, because only in this way can I define, under Italian legislation and international conventions, the facts of which we have come to know, not from voices or indiscretions, but through the indisputable images recorded by the prison security circuit. We have learned that such violence has been repeated for a long time and also that similar events would occur in other Italian prisons. Mr President, I do not believe in the theory of the few rotten apples, but I do not believe that a body made up of 40,000 agents is made up entirely of violent people and torturers of prisoners. Precisely for this reason, because of the senate's need to understand, we need to hear the government looking for urgent ways of intervention, parliamentary and also legislative. That is the point of asking Minister Cartabia to come to the House as soon as possible for government communications. In recent decades, Mr President, Parliament has lost much of the centrality that the Constitution has assigned to it in order, but on facts such as those that emerged in the prison of Santa Maria Capua Vetere it would not be conceivable that Parliament would not express itself with all the force that the Constitution attaches to it. That is why it is urgent for government communications to be brought to this House as soon as possible. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u7	Colleagues, the Presidency has already received four requests with the same content, which are absolutely justified. Given that we had planned the vote for the constitutional bill, which provides for a qualified majority, around 11 a.m., if colleagues agree, not wanting to restrict the possible debate, I would now take explanations of vote and the final vote on the draft Constitutional Reform Act, and then proceed with the requests that have been submitted to me in relation to this subject. I would first of all like to address those who have asked to speak, because otherwise I should be holding the time so long that I do not think it is correct with regard to the matter that Senator Zanda has submitted to us. Of course, Minister D'Incà will take part diligently in relation to the requests made by Senator Zanda or those that should come in subsequent interventions. I would like to make a further statement to the House: given that, due to the timing of the sanitisation, yesterday evening we could not make the speeches at the end of the sitting, yesterday's members who wanted to intervene will be able to do so after the vote on the draft Constitutional Act and any speeches on the matter just before the suspension. If no comments are made, this remains the case.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the draft Constitutional Law No 1440-B, approved in first resolution by the Chamber of Deputies; approved, in first resolution, by the Senate; approved without amendment in second resolution by the Chamber of Deputies. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting the rapporteur carried out the oral report and the general debate took place. The rapporteur and the representative of the Government do not intend to intervene in the reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u9	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u11	Grimani (IV-PSI). Mr President, Senators and Senators, Honourable Representative of the Government, the reform of the active electorate of the members of the Senate comes to the fourth reading between the House and the Senate. Italy Viva will vote in favour of this reform, understanding its spirit, since it was always an important point of view of ours to allow an improvement in this sense of the active electorate of the Senate. This reform will allow the right to vote to be extended to the 18-24 age group and will allow 4 million young people to directly elect the representatives of the Senate. However, in addition to a positive vote, it is right to make some remarks which have already emerged yesterday during the general debate. We believe that this is a partial reform and we also expressed it at the time of the previous reading in the Senate, because we would have preferred a reform that would change the passive electorate as well as that of the House, that is, allowing the election of those who are more than twenty-five years old to the Senate of the Republic. Paradoxically, with this reform, 4 million girls and boys are given the opportunity to elect the Senate, but not to be part of it. They will elect him, but they will not be able to influence him from a generational point of view. We believe that this reform should also be completed by changing the passive electorate, also by reducing the number of Members of Parliament; we know that from 945 to 600 Members of Parliament, one third of the new overall composition of Parliament will be of the Senate, so the presence of young people in our Chambers will be reduced even further. This should have prompted us to think of a more comprehensive reform of the electorate, both active and passive, of the Senate. Among other things, the 40-year threshold for the second chamber no longer exists anywhere; if I don't have incorrect information there is only in the Czech Republic. Among other things, that is a House that does not have the function of the Italian Senate, because it does not vote on the budget and does not vote on the government's trust. We think, therefore, that the establishment of the bill should be approved and safeguarded when we examine it, because it still makes it possible to equalise the electorate active with that of the House, so it is a step forward and as all the steps forward must be supported, but we also believe that it is an incomplete reform. I heard some thoughts yesterday about the stew reforms: in my opinion, and of my Group, there is no doubt that this is the problem of the legislature, but to say it now seems a little out of time, because we do not want to live with nostalgia and perhaps someone has tired of hearing us always say the same things, but in 2016 Matteo Renzi, then President of the Council, proposed a reform that could have been so critical and was rejected by the voters - so that remains the immodifiable piece and the judgment that no one can change and that we absolutely cannot afford to evaluate - but it was obviously an overall reform. I still remember today that the front of the no had been called to offer an alternative proposal; someone said that with a few articles you could make those interventions that were foreseen in the reform rejected on 4 December 2016; those few articles we have not seen them anymore and the problems that five years ago were unresolved are even more present today, also because we will go towards the reduction of the number of parliamentarians. All the problems we had in 2016, therefore, are intact today and indeed will be even heavier in the next legislature, in which fewer parliamentarians will have to confront an unchanged institutional situation, so always with two chambers that legislate, always with the mechanism of confidence and with the life of the parliamentary committees that will be even more complicated, especially with regard to the Senate Assembly. In fact, therefore, talking today about broken reforms - which we are the first to condemn - doesn't make much sense, because we remember well what was the judgment of most political forces in 2016, when that referendum could change things. We hope, however, that this, like other changes to the constitutional dictation that have taken place in recent years, will necessarily lead to a more comprehensive rethink of the institutional system. This can hardly be the legislature in which this can happen, because we are still in its final phase, a stage in which we will have to elect the President of the Republic and in which the exit from the pandemic will catalyse the attention of parliamentary life and parliamentary work, as we see now with the many legislative measures that are at the attention of the Commissions and that will then arrive in the Chamber during the summer. But it is quite clear that, as a political class, we will once and for all have to think about reforming our institutional system. This is also in the light of what has happened in the last year. I am referring above all, for example, to Title V and the relationship between the State and the Regions, which will be another of those issues that Parliament will not be able to escape from revisiting. It is quite clear, in fact, that that is really the hard core of the institutional issues of our country. We have witnessed a difficulty in dialogue in recent months between the State and the Regions, especially in the context of the epidemiological emergency, which still cries vengeance. It is necessary, therefore, especially on the subject of competing legislation, to put the word "end" in time to leave clear and obvious areas of action to the State and the Regions, avoiding contrasts that then become elements of opposition that create distrust in citizens who no longer know what the institutional subject of reference is. We appreciate the establishment of this reform and we will vote for it with conviction, but there is a regret in us that it would have been more just to review not only the age thresholds of the active electorate, but also and above all the age thresholds of the passive electorate. In the hope that the institutional system can then be put in place more comprehensively and more adapted to the needs of a modern state and its citizens, we note that this is a step forward and will therefore vote in favour of institutional reform of the active Senate electorate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u12	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u14	BRESSA (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, I would like to begin my brief explanation of vote with a reflection that Aldo Moro made on the events of 1968. The figure of that age that was imperishable and yet so dense, was given by the appearance on the public scene of a new social subject until then prisoner of a condition under protection: the young. Moro spoke of the urgency of a new time; it is a new humanity that wants to make itself. Today the general vote at eighteen must be understood as the beginning of a new time, but there is a need for a full awareness of this choice. It is not a constitutional adaptation due to a need for electoral symmetry; it is a political choice of empowerment of a social subject, precisely young people, without any distinction between them, masters of their own choices and their own future. Today's vote marks a passage in which politics, we, must live up to this choice. We must be credible in the eyes of those who stand for the first time in the vote and, therefore, in the highest participation of a democratic community. Credibility is the child of seriousness and responsibility. If we are aware of the meaning of the vote that we are about to give, this commits us to being politically serious and, then, we can say that this vote of constitutional change is a commitment that we all take in this Parliament and that we deliver to those who will have to and will be able to judge us. The vote of the Group for Autonomies will be in favour. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u15	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u17	Mr Totaro (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Brothers of Italy, from the beginning of the House, are convinced that this is a reform that is right in half. We've always talked about this law. The right does not do so today, but since Giorgia Meloni, then Minister of Youth, was the first to bring to the attention of the House the need for the involvement of young people in political life, with the lowering - in that bill we spoke of equivalence - of age to vote and be voted on. Brothers of Italy, however, has never shunned the challenges of constitutional reforms, although in this punctual version maintaining - we do - that organic vision that is culturally proper to the right. On the subject of constitutional reforms, for example, we have been decisive in this parliamentary term and have always been a necessary component in the approval of the reform that has led to the reduction of Members, and it is good to remember that we also voted by the opposition for the cut of Members who would not have been achieved without our vote. Similarly, we want to be decisive and decisive on this reform, as well as on the many other challenges of modernising our legal system. This does not prevent us from pointing out with regret that we would have liked there to be that equalization that we tried to incorporate both in the House and in the Senate with punctual amendments to say that the principle that, if you can vote, you can also be voted on at the same age; if you have the ability to choose who represents you, you can also be the one that represents the widespread interests and the future of the nation, thus giving voice and protagonism to young people. On this I believe that we do not accept lessons from anyone because the right has always been in avant-garde history in this sense. Of course, we are aware that youth is a category that seems inexplicably excluded from parliamentary political life, both in the House and in the Senate. It is a category excluded only in Italy because, instead, in the rest of Europe, the eighteen-year-olds participate directly in the parliamentary representativeness. This is true in Denmark, Finland, Germany, the Netherlands and other European countries. However, if we want young people to represent in this Parliament also that piece of national society and therefore the future, the hope and ambition of our nation, this small reform is not enough if they cannot themselves represent that split society. Do you not think that at the moment, if there were 18 or 19-year-olds in this House, they would have been able to represent the discomfort, ambitions and concerns of their peers? Elements that have often been overlooked in recent measures in this very Chamber. In the light above all of an epidemic, so devastating and impacting precisely on young people, it is evident that today the media and social media accelerate the processes of communication, information and formation of consciences and therefore also the involvement of the youngest in political life is better realized than what probably were the intentions at the time of the writing of the Constitution. However, it remains a vulnus with respect to the possibility, as we have said, of choosing from one's own destiny. There are many issues and measures that have been put into effect on young people. Let us think, for example, of the pension reform that took place some time ago. Choosing repercussions on future generations without these generations being able to say their own about those choices they find themselves paying. Or, to make a recent reference, I would like to remind you of the important budgetary deviations we have voted in this House in order to respond to the needs of the pandemic. They are mortgages on the future of the younger generations that have not been taken into account and that perhaps they could have said theirs if they had been used for infrastructure and economic development, rather than wasted on navigators, cashbacks or citizenship income. We had also made this appeal in the parliamentary process, but it must be recorded that, right here in the Senate, the politics of the majority of that time has been bogged down and has pulled back on what the Senate had done, with the equalization of the passive electorate as well. Brothers of Italy will vote in favour of the reform in our examination because we have never fallen behind in the challenges of renewal to which we have always approached with an organic vision. This means that one cannot ignore a fundamental premise that must be introduced in the Constitution alongside the reduction in the number of parliamentarians and the increased participation of young people: the direct election of the head of state. This is in order to remove all those barriers that our system has to the full participation of citizens in political life, which for us means respect for the vote of citizens, which is not a blank cheque with which parties can do what they want or what suits them at that given historical moment. All this in the logic of the defence of the institutions and of a commitment to the renewal of the institutions, guided, as we always are, only by a single interest, the national one and that of the Italians. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u18	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u20	MALPEZZI (PD). Mr President, today is a good day. I see the Minister for Relations with Parliament, who also has the delegation to reform, and never, as on this day, his presence is truly consistent with the path that has been made. We should also remember that the measure we are discussing is a parliamentary initiative, a reform initiative that was born in the Chamber and Senate classrooms, which put together several legislative proposals on the subject and which really came from a comparison. The operation started in the Chamber in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; I like to remember this because there was a game of exchange and continuous deepening between the members of the two Committees of the Chamber and Senate to try to give an answer that would meet the needs that the parliamentarians were bringing on the field with respect to this aspect that sees the possibility of giving a right to 4 million Italian citizens. Today we conclude this path, even if it will take another three months to make the law come into force. We are talking about citizens who previously had only part of that right. We are not simply going to deliver another ballot, but let's say one very clear thing: let's tie it up, telling all those kids in seven age groups, from eighteen to twenty-five, that politics needs them and needs their ability to choose. This gives us a responsibility. Yesterday I heard in general debate that someone stressed that there is an impoverishment of knowledge, of the Italian civic sense, of our rules, of our laws, of the functioning of the institutions. Well, we cannot raise the alarm from these benches; we must find the solution and the answer to that participation which, in the lowest age groups, exists. Our squares, before being blocked by the emergency Covid, have witnessed a great season of participation of the youngest, on the issues that they care about: the issues of the environment and rights. The kids are in the squares and they want to participate. And so let us help them, not only by voting for their participation in the vote also for the election of this branch of Parliament, but by telling them that the demands of which they have been bearers will be heard in a Senate that will also be chosen by them. Let us tell them that we do not want to keep them out, that they are present and that we can stimulate each other. This can also help to increase participation in the vote, because often, after the elections, we also turn into commentators and tell how then the strongest party is often, too often, that of abstentionism. Then the desire to involve this age group also with regard to voting in the Senate, guaranteeing them this kind of right, may be a further attempt to respond to this lack of participation and to this lack of will. It is as if we were saying today that we want to involve them, and we ask them to participate. Because then politics chooses for the citizens and then it is right that all citizens, even the youngest, should be able to choose. That is why it is a beautiful day, because it is as if the legislator today responds to them, responds to these demands. I add an element, which is undoubtedly political, because the reflection that was made in the Chamber and Senate Commissions by the rapporteur Parrini, whom I thank for the work he has done, of great attention, together with all the members of the 1st Senate Commission, has been a profound reflection on these different electoral basins to date, which have often led to a difference in the numerical composition of the majorities between the House and the Senate, which has often put in difficulty our activity in carrying out the demands and in giving stability to the country. It is not said that in this way everything will be resolved, but undoubtedly the fact of guaranteeing two identical electoral basins, at least from the historical point of view, that therefore will go to choose the members of the House and Senate exactly the same way, with two different ballots, but voted by all, perhaps it could help to improve the same functioning of our institutions. That too should be explained, because we need our institutions and the way in which we work to be known. Often we are simply the ones in the palace, with few contacts outside. In fact, maybe in here you often try to do a job that can carry on the instances that come from outside. I think that this is a further opportunity that we, as a political class, must seize today; we must turn to the world outside, with which we must continue to maintain and strengthen a very strong relationship, and we must be more able to gather their demands, even in another language. Politics has a number of issues to question: its ability to communicate what it does, its ability to demonstrate the work done in these classrooms, its ability to tell the difficulties of the legislative process in the exchange, even in the clash, in the desire to find the synthesis. These are also opportunities that we have, telling the younger kids that we offer - because we believe in it - an extra card that gives them an element - I use this term - of citizenship. It is as if we said that we want to guarantee a further protagonism of civil life for all young people. Mr President, I am speaking with great serenity because I have heard those who have spoken of the reform that has been broken; Senator Grimani also mentioned it before: he remembered reform processes that have been done in a more complex way and that perhaps have not brought home the results that many, on the other hand, hoped to achieve. Let's see it, yes, as a small step, but let's see it as a step that Parliament takes because - I repeat - what we are expressing today is the vote that marks a parliamentary work that we should all claim as a symbol, as the strength of democracy to act and to do it as it should for the good of society, in this case of 4 million young people who in the next elections will be able to vote for both branches of Parliament. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u21	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u23	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, the reform that we are finally approving today is certainly an important signal to young people, as was the reference in the other reform - for me, I have to say quite frankly, much more importantly - which we approved at first reading a few weeks ago, which provides for the introduction of the Constitution for the protection of the environment, ecosystems and biodiversity, including for future generations. These are very important commitments for us today, and they are certainly concrete messages that aim to affirm precise principles. In this case we want to extend participation to an important moment in political life such as that of elections to age groups ranging from eighteen to twenty-five years. So, it is certainly an important step. However, we must also be very clear. We cannot sin naively thinking that the question of the participation of young people in political life can be exhausted only and simply by the fact that we give young people, when they are eighteen years old, the opportunity to vote for the Senate by amending the Constitution. The question of the participation of young people in political life is much more complex. Beyond the pandemic that slowed everything down, we have reviewed in the square many young people who asked political decision-makers to take responsibility for their lives, therefore for concrete choices to combat climate change, concrete choices for their future, to give a certainty of the future and their prospects. Therefore, I would like to say that the political participation of the younger generations is a much more complex issue. Why do I say that it is in the responsibility of politics? Because it is up to those who then have to give a different face to politics, to take responsibility and to the general interest; to those who have to work to change the state of things and give young people real prospects. The problem of young people today is also that of the future of their generation and their lives. We must not accept this when we assume responsibility for a very important constitutional change. The second question is: when you vote, you think you can be represented. If we enlarge the electorate and with this constitutional change we give young people the opportunity to vote for the Senate, but it remains a very serious problem of representation. The reduction in the number of parliamentarians was approved and the problem of the differences in electoral outcomes, which accompanied the whole history of our country, was not linked only and exclusively to the fact that there was a substantial difference of the active electorate, but also to the fact - President Parrini knows perfectly well - that the Senate is elected on a regional basis. Therefore we will have a problem: with the reduction in the number of Members - we are talking about the election of two hundred senators - I am afraid that many of the young people to whom we rightly give the opportunity to exercise their electorate active also for the Senate, in many regions might not see the vote they express for the first time. This is a problem that lies before us. However, I would like to draw attention to one issue which has been removed from the political debate and which concerns the fact that, after the reduction in the number of Members, we have no longer dealt with the subject of amending the electoral law in order to have a system that can ensure that there is no squeeze, with the reduction of the number of Members, of political and territorial representation. It is a question that, even more so when we intervene to enlarge the electorate active in the Senate, is strongly posed, because it is not said that they can be fully represented and that, in fact, their vote cannot be wasted in the combined arrangement of the election of the Senate, which remains on a regional basis, and the fact that the reasoning on the electoral law has been completely removed. But the issue is there and we want to put it very strongly today, because the problem of the objective compression that is likely to occur with the reduction in the number of Members has not been addressed, and above all it does not seem that even remotely we want to deal with it. We will therefore have a problem in the next elections if we go to vote with the electoral laws currently in force. Certainly the enlargement of the electorate to the 18-year-olds for the Senate does not solve the underlying problem that we have and that will be very heavy and evident after the reduction in the number of parliamentarians. There is another matter. On the contrary of Italy Viva, we were absolutely in agreement to remove from this reform the modification of the passive electorate. I say this because we do not think and do not want to think that this reform should be just the anti-campus of de facto elimination of the Senate or its radical modification, as provided for by the constitutional reform Renzi that we faced in 2016 for overcoming bicameralism and the reduction of the Senate to a club. The question of bicameralism is very complex and I believe that the fact that the passive electorate has been absolutely right since the reform has been exonerated, not only because this regulatory intervention must not be the antechamber of the attempt to bring back to life a reform that the citizens with the referendum have rejected, but also because, in the spirit of the Fathers and the Mothers constituting there was the idea of a Senate that had a greater weight in the examination of the measures. I therefore believe that in some way that spirit and that assessment must be absolutely safeguarded. Having said that, however, the issues I have raised and which we continue to remove remain unsolved in front of us. The reduction of parliamentarians, however, strongly raises a question of the balance of the system, as well as the question of political pluralism and territorial representation. In any case, I hope that, even after the final approval of this reform, we can finally put our hands on all of this, once and for all seriously addressing the issue of electoral law in order to try to restore representation to the political system. Otherwise, we risk having compromised the very mechanism of representation and political and territorial pluralism. Of course, this reform is positive, because it proposes and allows for the enlargement of participation, but it remains before us the very serious issue of political pluralism and representation. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u24	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u26	MALAN (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, it is difficult to add something for me after the speeches made by Senators Nazario Pagano and Luigi Vitali yesterday on behalf of the Forza Italia Group, who outlined a very clear picture of the situation, explaining why we did not join the almost unanimous choir in favour of the reform that we are approving. But I want to add something. We are faced with one of the measures we were promised when we voted last year for a drastic reduction in the number of Members. As is also apparent from the newspapers of the time, which I have reviewed in recent days, the then Secretary of the Zingaretti Democratic Party said that there would shortly be compensatory measures to adjust the reform concerning the reduction of the number of Members who, evidently, by the mouth of the proposers themselves, create imbalances. Well, almost a year has passed and we have seen nothing, except this proposal which, as was said, should be involved in compensating for the problems created by the reduction in the number of Members, and which, among others, has the effect that I will now say. In 1947 the constituent Fathers had established a variable number of elected senators who, if they had remained so, would have led to a Parliament of about 1,200 members compared to the 900 that were there until this legislature and which will be drastically reduced from the next one. In 1963 the fixed number of 315 elected senators was established, that is, one in every 98,000 voters. In 2018, during the last elections, the number of voters for each senator rose from 98,000 to 148,000 because of the increase in the Italian population. Faced with this, it was thought to reduce the number of senators, bringing it to 233,000 voters for each elected one, so we went from 98,000 in 1963 to 233,000 with previous reforms. To "compensate" this problem, another 4 million people, of young people, who will have much less power than they would have had before the reduction in the number of parliamentarians, are promoted to the Senate vote when they could have voted for an adequate number of parliamentarians. [[Applause]] If that's compensation, we're completely off the track. There was only one other matter. Proposals have been made, among other things, by people who have proudly opposed the reduction, but have been dropped; like all of them, these proposals are questionable, but they have been received. The other proposal that we have heard in recent days from the current secretary of the Democratic Party Enrico Letta is that of a norm against currency changes. For God's sake, we who have seen the last government that has been a direct expression of the vote of the citizens precisely because of the change of name we are not against; this proposal, however, comes from the party that in this House currently has three senators of its Group (the Democratic Party) who have changed their coats twice; one in particular (I do not want to make names, because they are victims of things that they have been asked to do) has changed Group twice, for the noble purpose of helping to give life to the Group of Europeans, which was done all by changers of the coat, in order to support the third Count Government. [[Applause]] If the example comes from there, where do we end up? Moreover, Enrico Letta himself became Minister (one of the three times he was) before he was ever elected to any office: he was particularly gifted, because he did three times the Minister without even being elected City Councillor, far from being a Member. The first government in which he was Minister was the first government of Alema, which was born thanks to the change of office of many MPs and senators from Communist Refoundation, from Forza Italia and even from National Alliance. [[Applause]] Then they managed to put together the elected Communist Refoundation and National Alliance to make a government, in order to make Enrico Letta minister, which was a goal expected from the end of the war. [[Applause]] It is not enough: Enrico Letta was also President of the Council (we remember him well), even with our vote, ahinoi. That government was born from a majority that originated from the Democratic Party's majority prize thanks to the alliance with Left and Freedom (SEL), which - I believe no one is offended - were the predecessors of Free and Equal. This alliance granted them a major prize for the numbers of the Letta government: it is a pity that it broke immediately after having elected the Presidents of the Chambers and therefore was false. Let us say then that we are really off-road, because the pulpit is completely unfit for preaching and the preaching is questionable. We know that it is difficult not to vote in favour of this reform which proposes that even eighteen-year-olds should vote for the election of the Senate. We have a great deal of attention for young people, but also for seriousness. [[Applause]] Yesterday Mr Vitali spoke about young people who are not interested in politics and it is not really necessary to force them to be interested; then there are those who are interested in it, but do not go to vote, perhaps because they see little seriousness and, knowing social media better than any other age category, they would like politics to have a different level and not that of likes. Receiving likes is one thing, ruling one country is another and young people know it well. [[Applause]] If you make constitutional reforms of likes, the first to understand that it is a fraud are the young. [[Applause]] In addition, in this way we create a premise. By matching age to vote in the Senate and the House, we make bicameralism less justifiable. Now, someone likes bicameralism and someone doesn't like it, but I remember that on December 4, 2016 the Italians rejected the substantial monocameralism introduced by the Renzi-Boschi reform and not a little: with 60 percent votes against and 40 percent in favour. It wasn't just a defeat! [[Applause]] So, we can't go in the direction of monocameralism with this standardization. We therefore argue that we should have a global approach and the courage to understand the Constitution, as everyone who has a minimum understanding knows. And so do many of those who carry out reforms in this way, but who, for the likes of the next day, say: who cares. Serious behavior would be another, but to get some consensus, let's do that too. They should know that the Constitution is an architecture, it's a symphony. If you change a piece, it is not that the rest can remain the same without consequences on the rest. We need balance and, precisely, the seriousness that young people, first and foremost, ask of us. They do not ask the Senate vote: frankly, I have never heard this once, meeting people of all ages, starting with young people. [[Applause]] We are being asked for opportunities and universities that really give them: the opportunity is not assistantism, nor as we saw yesterday, the possibility that people who, by choice, do not work earn more than two young people who work 50 hours a week. [[Applause]] And that's legally! When the income of citizenship, with all the various additions, reaches up to 1,700 euros per month, while a young person who works 50 hours a week earns half of it, it is precisely compared to this that young people say there is no seriousness. Then, yes, there is a risk that they will not vote, even if we give them the right to vote. 10.25 a.m. (Follows MALAN). We show that we have confidence in the institutions, because if we damage democratic institutions, the Senate and the House, power does not go to the citizens and the people, but to the great interests, to the great bureaucracies, to the international organizations with dubious democratic stability and to the foreign powers that try to get into our territory (I speak of the regime of the Chinese Communist Party), buying companies, people and media. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u27	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u29	GRASSI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we all know that the constituent Fathers, when they decided to give Italian democracy the bicameral structure we know well, were also well aware that representative democracy poses a problem, which I would not call difficult, but almost impossible to solve. The problem is to ensure, through the electoral system, that elected representatives are the faithful projection of the electorate, so that in these classrooms they sit, in our name, all Italians. Of course, it's on a scale projection. They chose, then, to differentiate the electoral method for the one and the other Chamber, so as to obtain two different photographs of the country, which, once superimposed, gave a representation more rich in details. The ratio, therefore, of the difference between the electorate active in the Chamber and the Senate does not reside, as I will explain shortly, in the conviction that the voters of the Senate are or should be more mature than those of the Chamber, but simply in the need to offer two different photographs of the Country. Let us not forget that only in 1975 the age was reduced to eighteen years; until then, it was achieved to twenty-one. So, until 1975, the difference between the two electorates was only four years. We all know that the maturation of the person is accelerated as it grows: so much is the difference in terms of maturity between a 12-year-old and a 16-year-old, but very little, I would say nothing, is between a 21-year-old and a 25-year-old. Therefore, the initial ratio was quite different and - well Mr Malan did to remember this - closely linked to the bicameral functioning of the Italian Parliament, which saw each of the two rooms suitable to control the other. Constantine Mortati, many times quoted (who knows how many times read), reminds us that there is a difference... [[Brusio.]] Mr President, may I ask you to urge a little more silence? I'm having a hard time concentrating. [[Recalls of the President]] Constantine Mortati explained that there is a difference between formal and material Constitution and the material Constitution that today integrates the formal Constitution is different. We are now faced with an alternate bicameralism; especially with the decree-laws, we see that the provisions depart once from the House, another from the Senate. Only for the bill of parliamentary initiative do we find that bicameralism. If in 1975 we have reduced the age to eighteen years, that initial ratio then perhaps has failed. And if we also consider the actual change in our constitutional structure, we further realize that there is no longer a need to separate the age of the voters of the House and the Senate. For what I said, then, it is perhaps not correct to understand this provision as an openness to young people, because we must make room for them. The problem is not this, but rather to take note of a constitutional change and understand - and this passage is very important - that the change we are introducing cannot be considered in isolation, as an end in itself. It must be accompanied by a much wider operation of difficult completion, because today the real problem is the maturity of the elector, not because of the age, but because properly informed and aware of the political problems. The uninformed voter votes badly, without adequate informed consent, as the doctors would say. What is the way to improve the political, social and civic conscience of Italians? Social networks - let's not hide it - are not helping us. One of the fundamental steps for this awareness lies in the example that we must first set. The age of ideological opposition, in which we were enemies, dates back at least seventy years. Today we are an expression of a democracy that desperately tries to become mature, in which there are no enemies, but opponents, who confront each other on ideas. [[Applause]] A true democracy, so that each of us is truly representative of the people, demands and imposes mediation. As members of the League, we defend our beliefs that they are right, but we know that others - you too - are bearers of other ideas that we cannot ignore and we know - and we have shown it by the facts - that, if we are truly democratic, mediation is necessary to bring a measure to approval. If we reduce the electorate's age to eighteen, but we continue to split up and counter ourselves in an unreasonable way - forgive me the digression - on measures such as the Zan bill, we contradict the constitutional change that we are making today. [[Applause.]] 10:38 a.m. (Follows grassi). We must live up to the measure that we are approving. We must show the Italians how to behave, when they are aware of the importance of their actions, and what it means to act in a mature way, informing themselves, studying and opposing facts and arguments, not on empty slogans, because, if we continue to do so, we will continue to address an electorate that, perhaps 90 years old, will remain immature, because not adequately informed or educated of what is really at stake for the future of the country. On behalf of the Group to which I belong, Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione, I therefore vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u30	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u32	GARRUTI (M5S). Mr President, in motivating the 5 Star Movimento Group's vote in favour of this draft constitutional law, I will review what my fellow Members say that they will not vote in favour of this seemingly minimal reform of the Constitution, but not at all irrelevant, bringing back to the attention of this authoritative Assembly some passages in the preparatory work of the 1st Commission of this branch of Parliament. It has been said that the constituent Fathers had foreseen a different age of electorate for the two Houses and that this will mean something. In addressing the issue of the decrease of the threshold to access the active electorate at eighteen years even for the Senate, one cannot fail to consider the changed socio-cultural context of the country compared to the constituent season of 1946-1947, whose works must be an indispensable starting point. The wounds of the war and of the institutional phase that preceded the debate on the Constitution advised the constituents to foresee differential elements in the composition on an official basis of the electoral body, in order to allocate in the Senate the characteristics of maturity and balance useful to balance the enthusiasms of the younger generations. The age difference between the active electorate of the House and the Senate, as is well known, was four years when the Constitution came into force. However, in Law No 39 of 1975, which laid down the attainment of the age of 18 compared to the twenty-one previously foreseen, this difference was doubled and therefore the effects of the choices of the constituents were amplified, in a period of greater progress and schooling. The fact that the ordinary law, which pursued all other purposes, has achieved such a distorting and disorganization effect between paragraphs 1 of Articles 48 and 58, must necessarily be remedied, because it is without justification and without equal in contemporary democracies. It has been said that we will not vote for a reform that has been done - and I quote - and we will not vote for it. So tell him you want to abolish one of the two chambers. It was 1985 when the Bozzi Commission, in its final report, for the first time hoped for the establishment of the electorate active in the Senate for the attainment of the age, as well as for all other civil and political rights. Several hypotheses of institutional reforms included the lowering of the active electorate, until the failure of the Renzi-Boschi reform. The outcome of the referendum of 4 December 2016 and with it the abandonment - I hope - of any hypothesis of indirect election of the Senate and, more generally, of the various proposals aimed at introducing a structural or functional differentiation between the two Chambers gave rise to a limitation of the principle of equality of the so-called incoming vote which, although established by norm of constitutional rank and, therefore, not in itself illegitimate, does not appear to be less indigested in the light of democratic principles. By granting voting rights to certain age groups of citizens presumed to be more capable and suitable, the freedom of choice of the electoral body and, therefore, the same freedom of vote are harmed. The 2006 and 2016 referendums taught those who wanted to learn the lesson that further attempts to proceed with overall constitutional reforms are doomed to failure due to the difficulty of making, especially during the referendum campaign, the basic lines of a broad project. Thus, the legislator, therefore, has been pushed towards the adoption of the opposite method, namely punctual reforms, further following the ratio with which Article 138 of the Constitution was written, widely recognized by doctrine. It has been said: young people do not know who the President of the Republic is, how can we grant them the right to vote? The impairment of the right to vote is detrimental to citizens with less contingent interests and therefore tend to give priority to a look at the future, with the result of a progressive increase in the age of the median electorate resulting from the ageing population that, as is well known, is registered throughout Europe and, in particular, in Italy. Several systems are facing this trend by providing for a further reduction in the minimum voting age - in the European Union it has been raised to sixteen years in Austria and more recently in Malta - or, more frequently, by introducing in the legislative procedure mechanisms and incentives to encourage the prevalence of a long-term and forward-looking vision over the current dominance of contingent logic, as is the case in Finland with the Commission of the future, which has long been active in the Parliament of that country. Colleagues, how nice it would be if we had a ministry for the future. Moreover, due to the current constitutional discipline on the active electorate, the composition of the Chamber and Senate continues to differentiate with a difference of almost 4 million, thus accentuating the risk of different political orientations between the two branches of Parliament and making the functioning of both the bicameral system and the form of parliamentary government more difficult. It is a risk that the Constitutional Court itself, with the ruling No. 35 of 2017 of illegality on the so-called Italicum, has highlighted, while suggesting a solution: adopt electoral laws that, although different, do not hinder the outcome of the elections the formation of homogeneous parliamentary majorities. With wide-angle lenses, we can extend the warning not only to the electoral system, but to the bicameral structure, if not to the entire constitutional system. Thus, the homogenization of the electoral bases of the House and Senate would benefit the function of government. It can be said, then, that the reform under consideration would have the non-trivial advantage of combining to a certain extent the values of representation and governability, often at odds with each other. It has been said: we will abstain because we do not want the newspapers to tell us that we are opposed to young people. Colleagues, when discussing democratic institutions, youth cannot be flagred as a value in an absolute sense, let alone exemplified as such, but must be regarded simply in the light of constitutional principles. This reform is absolutely appropriate, made necessary by the social, cultural and institutional developments that have taken place over time in order to remedy the distorting effects of the democratic representation that emerges from the current discipline. Let's be clear, however: the acclaimed disaffection to the politics of the new generations is a phenomenon that is not eliminated sic et simpliciter, guaranteeing young people the possibility to vote also in the Senate; today we need to adopt a perspective of wider views, recovering the participation of young people in politics, through new and more appropriate forms of representation to the changed social context (I think, for example, to digital democracy). At the present stage, characterised by a certain crisis of the classical institutions of democracy, the preservation of Article 58 of the Constitution risks only contributing to increasing the gap between people and voters, weakening the sovereignty established by Article 1 of the Charter in relation to the profile of popular will. For these reasons, I repeat the vote in favour of the Movimento 5 Star Group on the constitutional bill when we examine it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u33	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u34	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u35	AUDDINO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to escape my duty to express my doubts about this way of proceeding to implement important constitutional reforms with a very dangerous parceling, in my opinion. The measure under consideration, by modifying the national requirement of the electorate active for the Senate, risks taking us in the direction of a precise design that is not fully revealed in this House, which can be carried out in the next legislature, with the overcoming of the perfect bicameralism. This way of making reforms, in my opinion, is wrong, as are these interventions, parcelled and made with the scalpel. Implementing the slow erosion of the differences between the House and the Senate could lead to the other step, the equivalence of the passive electorate already in the next legislature, as I said, until the inevitable conclusion of the uselessness of the Senate, now reduced to a second Chamber. The constituent Assembly, as you all know, discussed the issue of bicameralism for a long time, choosing the perfect one, with the provisions necessary to create significant differences between the two branches of Parliament. In fact, the electoral system of the two chambers was differentiated, one on a regional basis, the other on a national basis, and the active and passive electorate of the two branches of Parliament, according to the age requirement. In my opinion, all this must now be protected and not modified. Expressing a favorable vote on the measure you will be complicit in a broader design, not clearly explicit, aimed at suppressing the Upper House, the Senate of the Italian Republic, precisely in Italy that saw the birth of the senatus romanus. Those who want to protect perfect bicameralism do not vote yes today; ladies and gentlemen, it is a project that we have already seen and which the Italians have already rejected, without any possibility of appeal. We protect the Constitution, because this reform risks being the antechamber of monocameralism. In conclusion, we do not touch the strength of equal bicameralism, which lies in the valorization and not in the compression of the differences between the two branches of Parliament. I therefore call on you to assess the measure in the light of the dangerous design that is taking shape, which, in my opinion, is foolish and contrary to constitutional principles, because it undermines equal bicameralism. This could already be achieved in the next parliamentary term, with your complicity today. These are the reasons for my dissent, for which I shall vote against the measure, with extreme pain. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u36	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u38	DE FALCO (Mixed). Mr President, I agree with the last words I have heard from my colleague, Mr Auddino, because - be careful - the policy in extremis, in the vicinity of the constitutional referendum, had guaranteed its honour that remedies would be put in place: constitutional reforms, ordinary legislative changes, amendments to parliamentary regulations, in particular to the Senate, before starting further reforms. Well, even the electoral law was not revisited, although the then Secretary of the Zingaretti Democratic Party had exulted at reaching agreement on a basic text. Without those changes, we are giving 18-year-olds a broken toy, because the Senate of the Republic will not work; with the current rules, we are giving them a bluff, a broken toy. And then, if they had promised those changes on their honor, now with what honor and with what courage do they still ask for confidence? Those who dishonor their word have no right to trust, until they restore it correctly and honor their promise. On the basis of what mandate are we picking up the institutions of the Republic, demolishing the bicameralism equal? According to what mandate do we believe new Zeus of this reconstruction, which is a demolition? Well, I will vote against it, not for a party or for a group; I will vote against it for my own goodness and because I do not want to be an accomplice to this further evil covered. Look at the fact that the obituaries of the Salento gazzetta have not even spoken about this matter. We're talking about something that no one knows and the consequences of which everyone will suffer. If there had been a public debate - and therefore a mandate - you would have been right; but you are wrong and you are a falsus solicitor, because you have no title to change the foundations of the Constitution. I will vote against, at least in my name. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u39	Pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Constitution, an absolute majority of the members of the Senate is required to vote on a constitutional bill in the second resolution. Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot for the second resolution on the constitutional bill, composed of only Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves in second resolution with an absolute majority of its members. (See Annex B). [[Applause]] Colleagues, as agreed, there are further requests for intervention on the issue faced by Senator Zanda. The speeches which should have taken place at the end of yesterday's sitting will follow and have been postponed due to sanitisation.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u42	NUGNES (Mixed). Mr President, I am speaking not only to endorse Senator Zanda's request to have the Minister of Justice here, but to highlight the failure of politics. Once again we had to wait for the judiciary to move; yet, from these Aules began inspection activities in April 2020, one certainly at my first signature, in which we were wondering why there were disturbances between Sunday 5 and Monday 6 April 2020. He asked the Minister to know what was actually happening that night and what was happening in Santa Maria Capua Vetere, because the newspapers and social media already reported very serious events. Well, we have not received any response from politics: Parliament asks, but the Government does not respond and the judiciary must intervene. Therefore, by signing up to the request of my colleague, I too call for the Minister to come forward, at least now, in extreme delay, to give reasons for these very serious events.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u45	Mr Totaro (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Brothers of Italy Group will join in the request made by Senator Zanda to ensure that Minister Cartabia comes to the Senate to report on the events in Santa Maria Capua Vetere. We also call for the Minister to come to this House to report not only on those facts but on the situation which unfortunately concerns our penitentiaries. Before, Mr Zanda had a fall in style that is not from him: frankly, to state what he said just now that, with reference to the facts of Santa Maria Capua Vetere, it is not a few rotten apples, but much more - he said that certainly not all 40,000 members of the prison police are negative people - it seems to me a very serious thing about men and women in uniforms representing the Italian State. [[Applause]] For 1,200 euros a month they do a very difficult job and frankly, Senator Zanda, I would not have expected it from you, because he is a very paid man: it is really a fall in style, and I therefore ask that an apology be made to 99% of the members of the prison police who carry out their duty in our penitentiaries in a thousand difficulties - and I stress it forcefully [[Applause]] - for little money and with little staff. This we will tell Minister Cartabia and ask what has been done by this Government to increase the staff of the prison police. Not only that. In addition to asking about what happened at Santa Maria Capua Vetere, we will ask to shed light and to report on what happened, in the months preceding the events of Santa Maria Capua Vetere, in all Italian penitentiaries - otherwise we remember only a part of the truth - in which we saw videos of prisons and sections set on fire, insulted and assaulted agents, prison police officers ended up in the hospital. On all these facts, we ask the Minister to know whether measures have been taken and whether the magistrates have intervened to make the prisoners pay for the riots caused. We speak of multiple prejudices: in our penitentiaries we do not have students from Oxford, Cambridge or Bocconi, but multiple prejudices that have destroyed our penitentiaries and attacked the Forces of Order, and attack them every day. They have paid or are under investigation, how will those who, wearing a uniform, have been wrong in Santa Maria Capua Vetere be put under investigation? We want to know the facts, so it is good for Minister Cartabia to come and shed light at three hundred and sixty degrees on these stories. It cannot be accepted that the attackers become aggressors and vice versa. We ask for respect for law enforcement and prison police officers who do a very difficult job in prison sections with one agent for every fifty prisoners: this, Senator Zanda and Senators of the Democratic Party, you must know, without just talking from here, from these scranni, at random and without knowing the reality of the facts. [[Applause]] We are on the side of law enforcement and prison police and we ask that the minister come to the Senate and report on what he is doing.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u48	CALIENDO (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I am in my third parliamentary term and I have never asked a minister to report to Parliament, because many times this request is dictated by electoral reasons, by the desire to make a criticism or give a different interpretation of the facts. I agree with what Senator Zanda has asked, because, as the Minister of Justice said, we need to know the truth. What has happened, if it were in the terms in which it appears in the newspapers, is certainly a problem of vitality in our country and a betrayal of our Constitution. A constitution that is often forgotten, like - I must say - as happened also for the vote just held on the so-called eighteen-year-olds who will vote for the Senate. All of this, Mr President, is something that I have experienced in my own skin: when I was a magistrate, I lived the rule of 50 years of age in order to be elected President of the Republic and 40 years of age in order to be elected to the Senate. This rule had something ideal that led me to believe that the Constitution says something that represents the Italian people. That was the philosophy of the Commission of 75. The philosophy of the Constitution on inmates has enormous value. We must realise that the prisoners are living in a situation of narrowness, and I am not saying that the prison police have full responsibility for what has happened. In fact, I would like to remind you that the prison police carry out a series of tasks, perhaps not even having the tools to do them legitimately. I say more. I intervened and fought in this House when the rule concerning prisoners assaulting the prison police was removed. Mr President, you know better than I that four hundred police officers a year are victims of physical aggression, even with consequences for the wounds reported. In the past legislature, a formidable mistake was made to eliminate the rule that, for the prisoner who attacked a prison police officer, it was impossible to access for two years the benefits of the so-called Gozzini law. It was in fact a rule that, without previewing the sanction, prevented certain behaviors in advance and, after forty years of judiciary, I still believe in the force of prevention rather than of punishment, in the strength of those who do not want to close people in prison and throw away the key; this is not the way to be of our country. Since the Minister has evoked the principles of the Constitution, I ask him to come and tell us the truth - and it is not a request to try not to look at difficulties or waste time - because the problems posed by those facts, if they were true, are such as to impose on us a further reflection in order to verify the respect of the Constitution. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u51	CANDIANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, the subject is certainly one of those who raise the debate, as it is right that it is, because there is no doubt that we all care about security within prisons, which, we must remember, is always on two sides, on the side of prisoners and on the side of prison guards. The horrible circumstance of which we have all come to know in a disconcerting way also shows that, inside the prisons, for too long there are conditions, both for those who work there, and for those who are detained, not up to those who should be the standards of a country like ours. [[Applause]] Let us make it clear immediately that what happened inside the prisons and taken from the cameras is something that cannot exist in a civil order. If we are to ask the government for a commitment, this is clearly in order to make it possible to work in prisons in a secure and certainly just way. Then, among the guards and thieves, we have no doubt: we are always with the guards. [[Applause]] It is necessary to guarantee to those who are imprisoned security, but it is necessary to guarantee to those who carry out their duty in uniform not to undergo even conditioning with respect to a system that wants to put the numbers on the prison guards and the prison police, as if they were the prisoners. Mr President, we also asked ourselves a question, a question about something very curious. For some time now, we have been insisting in Parliament's classrooms that the government should understand that, by putting in delicate places, where there may be abuse, control systems with cameras is an opportunity to ensure legality. [[Applause]] However, we always find obstruction by the Democratic Party on these issues. Well, under the circumstances we are talking about, the control system through the cameras inside the prisons has ensured that it can highlight a situation of abuse, so that certain things can no longer happen in the future. We insist that there are systems that ensure guarantees and safeguards within the protected structures for the elderly, as well as within the nursery schools. [[Applause]] We have unfortunately seen that there have also been situations of ill-treatment. However, if the League says so, it is not good; if Salvini says so, the opposite must be said. What has happened must therefore make us think in many respects, even in terms of the protection of those who are in a position to be offended without being able to defend themselves. There is a PNRR, Mr President, in which the corresponding budget item is provided for a large amount of resources which we have asked the Government to commit seriously to the restructuring of prisons and to allow adequate environments and structures, both to contain them, and to protect those who work there and those who are imprisoned there. On this we need the Minister to come to the Chamber to report, giving us certainty that the Government is not underestimating the situation, also guaranteeing the good repute of a body such as that of the Prison Police, which cannot be tainted by the behaviour of individuals. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u54	SANTILLO (M5S). Mr President, the facts of Santa Maria Capua Vetere must not make us think that this is a purely local matter. The prison problem is national, because in all the prisons of Italy (more or less) you suffer from the inadequate number of prison police officers, moreover throughout the country the presence of prison structures is inadequate. In those days, however, unlike so many colleagues who now speak here, I went there with other colleagues to bring closeness and solidarity to the prison police officers, for the precious work they do daily in prisons, in a difficult place like the prison of Santa Maria Capua Vetere. [[Applause.]] I also entered the arms of the prison, I spoke with the prisoners and in the eyes of some one could sense the fear of speaking. In this respect, we hope that the investigations will take their course. This is the right sector. But then there were very strong images, which we have all seen, and also messages written by some agents that make it seem that the action was premeditated. This is not good, so we are renewing the request that Minister Cartabia report to the House to make it clear that the guarantee of custody and the re-educational function of the sentence, enshrined in our Constitutional Charter, should be ensured in accordance with the rights and human dignity of the prisoner. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u55	Mr D'Incà was present when the problem was dealt with, and we will send out these additional requests that come unanimously from all the groups and I hope that the answers to these questions will be as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u58	TRENTACOSTE (M5S). Mr President, a series of terrifying fires have crossed Sicily in the last few days. No Province has been spared from the fire that has devoured hectares of maquis, woods and cultivated fields, with the loss of crops; hundreds of citizens have been evacuated from their homes, besieged by the flames that have affected some protected areas, doing massacres of wildlife and biodiversity. Too many farms have been affected, with real estate, equipment and livestock; farmers' families have lost everything: the work and hopes of a lifetime. In some cases the fires cover the archaeological areas, putting the Sicilian cultural heritage at risk. It is an environmental, economic and human disaster. Citizens and farmers have had to personally defend their homes and property, fighting the flames alongside the women and men of Civil Protection, the firemen and the forest corps, to which goes the gratitude of the Movimento 5 Stars for the spirit of sacrifice with which they face this emergency. [[Applause]] The proportions of the phenomenon are impressive this year, but it is not new. The appeal I have made to the regional authorities over the past few months has been worthless, and I have called for a strengthening and speeding up of the prevention activity. The negligence of regional policy is clear: it is enough to look at the Regional Forestry Corps, which has been penalized in its operational capacity over the years, with obsolete means, a shortage of personnel, very few inspectors, small and often older forest guards. All this within the framework of a regional fire plan, which is actually late and ineffective. Sicily has a regional law that protects the plant heritage, the second lowest forest cover index at national level, but it is among the first Regions by number and extent of fires: I wonder why. Is it possible that there are speculative interests linked to fire services or the land market? In the hope that the judiciary will find useful elements to answer these questions, it is necessary to intervene, for example, by assessing the use of predator drones supplied to the military aircraft that, through remote sensing with thermal chambers, can supervise the territories, early identifying the outbreaks in a more effective and economic way than the deployment of thousands of military, as requested by President Musumeci. Similarly, we need to tighten the penalties for criminals who burn our future, making the fires of rural areas comparable to those of forests. Tomorrow the citizens of the Province of Enna will come to the square spontaneously asking for answers to the institutions. The inability of the Sicilian Region to manage the emergency fires is under the eyes of all and then, if Sicily burns, the State has the duty to intervene to protect the environment and the safety of the citizens. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u61	FOURTH (M5S). Mr President, in Barletta, over a century ago a cement factory arose outside the city centre. Over time, however, it was surrounded by palaces and opifici, in fact ending in the urban fabric of a city of 100,000 inhabitants. This plant, like many similar plants in Italy, is used as a co-incinerator of pre-treated CSS waste and this is of great concern. In February 2019, in order to know the possible effects of the pollutants emitted, although monitored by fireplace and within the limits of law, a protocol of understanding between Municipality, ASL, ISDE Committee, order of doctors, primary schools and environmental associations for a biomonitoring financed by ASL was signed. The proposal was launched by the Environment Health Forum, brought into the institutions by the municipal councillors of the Movimento 5 Stars and, thanks to the pressure of many citizens, implemented by the mayor. For the first time in the world, in a reasonable space-time arc, the concentration of 24 metals in the toenails of 366 children between six and ten years of age was measured. On 25 June, Dr Di Ciaula published the results of the study on the prestigious Exposure and Health magazine. Children living and attending school in the area exposed to cement factory emissions show chronic bioaccumulation of toxic metals such as nickel, cadmium, mercury and arsenic. These correlate by indicating a common source. The article concludes that cement factories in urban areas appear to be harmful and that primary prevention policies are therefore needed to protect children's health, relocation, more restrictive rules for the use of fossil fuels, limitation of heavy metal-rich waste, health education. This study now requires the utmost attention, national and not only, both on the health front, to deepen and evaluate the actual risk on residents in the surroundings of cement factories, both on the environmental and socio-economic, in order to eliminate the cause, if it is dangerous. Burning waste, as well as tombing it, is a tragic mistake and now we know that it could also be dangerous, even more for children. The zero waste strategy is the only sustainable one, activating the 5 Rs: reduction, reuse, recycling, collection, recovery.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u64	FREGOLENT (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will take the liberty of speaking, as well as as being a senator, also as a mother, because it is unacceptable that in a civilized country one can die while sunbathing or playing in a park. On Wednesday, June 23, around 12:30, a young man, living not far from my municipality and driven by an impulse to harm, randomly chose a victim, a young woman who was sunbathing along the Piave River. He attacked her in the back and stabbed her with various stab wounds before cutting off her ear, which he took away like a trophy. I wanted something to remind me of her, said the young man at the police station. He was followed by the mental health center of the area, but apparently he did not take medication. On 13 June last, two children, two children, two grandchildren, lost in a moment because of the madness of another subject, which was literally abandoned by the institutions. I want to remember him again here, because the facts of the news are quickly forgotten and this should not happen. The harsh and harsh reality is that we must remember that two children of five and ten years old are no longer there. It is a tearful pain, crying out justice. No more hiding behind a finger. There are too many cases of psychiatric subjects, mental illness, leading to murder. Many of these cases, then, were practically announced in their obvious predictability. The last misfortunes that have happened again put us in front of how the Basaglia law has remained in the middle of the ford due to the premature death of those who wanted it and its successors have not been able to understand its vision. A reform has thus remained unfinished that wanted to bring to light the injustices committed within the handles and that now condemns patients and their families to a state of abandonment. The Italian system has not been able to set up the care segment. Families have been left guiltfully alone, reducing the whole to mere doctrinal classifications and pharmacological prescriptions. Can you explain to me what tools a sick person can use to ask for help? How do you do that? Why can't family members act for their child? At most seven days of compulsory health treatment are given, which can be extended to fifteen days; and then? This is a guilty abandonment of the institutions, a system that forgets the needs of too many families under these conditions. This deafening silence, the saying "it is not our fault" is not enough to wash our conscience from such responsibilities, from these deaths, as from all those that happened without us scandalizing, if not for a short time, perhaps in the spotlight, and then leave everything as it is, consistent with our typical misconception. Stop. With Senator Marino we are saying this from the beginning of the legislature: people have the right to care, families have the right to be helped and the State must stop pretending nothing. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u67	GRANATO (Misto-l'A.c'è-LPC). Mr President, I have asked to speak in this House because of a rather worrying situation and the concerns expressed above all by many teachers about Professor Miozzo's statements, who is the coordinator of the Scientific and Technical Committee. These are statements that lead even to foreshadowing measures to force teachers to carry out vaccinations for teaching in the presence, which absolutely, in the state of the art of scientific knowledge, is unacceptable. It is unacceptable because it was the same Technical and Scientific Committee that changed version on vaccines countless times, at least seven or eight times, only with regard to the AstraZeneca, first authorized from eighteen to fifty-five years, then extended until sixty-five years, then extended also to the over sixty-five, then suspended precautionally throughout Italy, then authorized for all the adult, then recommended to the over sixty with open day accessible to all, then stop for those under sixty years and second dose with Pfizer or Moderna, then freedom of choice for the second dose, with informed consent. In short, gentlemen, if this Scientific and Technical Committee does not know where it should go, how can it afford to force anyone to carry out an experimental vaccination in a country where informed consent is clearly required? The citizen has the right to choose which health treatment to undergo. This is absolutely unacceptable. To keep schools open simply reduce the number of pupils per class, a measure that no one wants to put on the field. There are many abandoned, abandoned schools that can be used or restored to create additional classes, to reduce the possibility of infection and allow everyone to attend. So please accept, once and for all, to increase current expenditure on education, to ensure that all citizens learn in safety and freedom of choice of vaccine therapies to apply to their own person. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u68	I suspend the sitting, which will resume at 3 p.m. for immediate questions (so-called question time). (The sitting was suspended at 11.24 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u69	The next item is questions in immediate response (so-called question time) pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, to which the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy and the Minister for University and Research will respond. I call on the speakers to ensure strict respect for time, given the current live television. Senator De Carlo has the right to explain the question 3-02678 on the reform of the European Common Agricultural Policy for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u70	Mr President, Minister, the question that we are asking you is in a rather difficult context for agriculture. We have already discussed on several occasions in this House issues related to the difficulties that farmers and our agri-food sector face in the world today, not only because of the pandemic that has exacerbated certain problems, but perhaps also because of the attitude that farmers are not an integral part of the environment but are almost antithesis to the same, in other words as something that those who deal with the environment should in some way oppose. In fact, this is not the case and the data from our agricultural and agri-food productions say so. Last but not least, I would like to refer to what happened, for example, with the Croatian attempt to copy the name "Prosecco," which I also love for regional reasons. This shows how much Italian agriculture is absolutely under fire. To this we add what happened with the CAP, on which I have heard more triumphalist tones than criticism, while instead it is a CAP that, compared with previous years, penalizes our nation also in financial terms, and it penalizes above all the first pillar that has always provided the resources for the liquidity of companies. In this respect, there has been a 10% cut in Europe, but in Italy it results in an even 15% cut, with a series of commitments much more stringent than before and even with less resources. I remind everyone that the 15% cut in Italy is worth about 6.2 billion euros. At a time of difficulty, further difficulties are added. Then there are a whole series of new commitments, including that of eco-schemas, which, in fact, our agriculture, which is the sixth most sustainable in the world, has to face without a real concentration of the situation. I would therefore ask you, Minister, whether you have made an impact assessment on the new rules and modalities of the CAP, and how you intend to make Parliament aware of and take part in those choices that the Strategic Plan will have to make shortly in order to make the new CAP calm.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u71	The Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy, Senator Patuanelli, has the right to reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u72	Mr President, I would like to thank the honourable Members for their questions. It is not easy to deal with the CAP in three minutes, but I will try to give specific answers to the very specific questions that have been asked. Firstly, as soon as the overall picture of the political agreement has been defined, the central administration together with the regional ones, the Crea and other institutions have started with an impact survey with SWOT methodology just to understand what is the real impact on Italian farms. The second element is Parliament's participation in the formation process of the National Strategic Plan. It is not conceivable that Parliament has no say in this matter, and I am not simply talking about being informed of what the Ministry is doing. I believe that proposals must come from the two Chamber and Senate Agriculture Commissions, which will of course be assessed in an integrated framework because the Strategic Plan is fundamental. Finally, there is not a total regionalisation of resources, but a national strategic framework. It is important that this is the case because, if we want to protect - as we want - the distinctiveness of our agri-food productions, we must do so by concentrating resources. I am therefore going to the point of the amount of resources. It is true that there is a cut of 6.2 billion in the seven-year period of CAP resources for our country, but it is also true that in the European multi-annual financial framework, having identified 750 billion for the Next generation EU has meant that - on the one hand - we have lost those allocated resources on the CAP and - on the other hand - we have in the National Recovery and Resilience Plan 7.9 billion direct for agri-food systems. There are not only seven projects focused on agriculture, but also horizontal measures such as the 4.0 transition that, thanks to the work - let me say - that I did to the Ministry of Economic Development, are now also accessible to the agricultural sector, which is not possible until there was the depreciation system. In that case too, there are many resources for innovation, but I believe that, in addition to the amount of expenditure, we must also look at the quality of expenditure. Then perhaps we must overcome an instrument such as direct payment, which is very wide and horizontal. It was true for everyone and it is fine because it is clear that we must support farmers' incomes. But trying to concentrate resources to make agriculture make that leap towards innovation, which allows us to keep together the needs of environmental sustainability, beyond those of social and economic sustainability, I think it is an objective that we as a country must have.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u73	I give the floor to Senator De Carlo to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u74	Mr President, Minister, I am not satisfied with the answer because - as you know - the CAP was born sixty years ago and its aim is to support farmers in production to provide citizens with food in quantity and safety. The primary aim of the CAP is to support farmers in production. With 6.2 billion less, it will be more difficult both to support farmers and to ensure that citizens have food in quantity and safety. The United States itself estimates that the farm-to-fork strategy, welcomed with great acclaim by many political parties, provides for a loss of land productivity of about 7%. And as if that were not enough, the same estimates a loss of farmers' income of about 20%. This is because, if we give farmers tasks, as well as social contributions, also in environmental terms, we unleash them from their work. The farmer is an entrepreneur and as such must produce food. We cannot give him tasks with less resources; otherwise, we change it into something else; we unravel its true nature and, above all, we make the farmer pay the price for our changes. If for someone the farmer is a cow to milk, I remind everyone that that cow first has to be fed. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u75	Senator De Bonis has the right to explain the question 3-02677 on cases of imports of unhealthy or damaged foreign wheat for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u76	Mr Minister, as you will know, apart from the problems of reducing the income of our farms because of a CAP which in every seven years sees the reduction of transfers to Italian farmers and, in particular, to those of the Mezzogiorno, Italian agriculture suffers - I think, in particular, to the cereals growers of the South in Apulia, Basilicata, Campania and Sicily - because it also has to face the ruthless international competition of garbage ships, which are sent back to the sender in the rest of the world. It happened in Algeria, Africa. Italy, thanks to a complacent European Union with limits on contaminants even higher than Africa, becomes the port of last resort for such ships. Yesterday a ship loaded with Canadian durum wheat arrived in Italy, a bulk carrier, called Sumatra, flying the Portuguese flag, who arrived in Ravenna after being rejected by the Algerian authorities in the port of Annaba for health reasons, as foreign journalistic sources tell us. Inside were found insects, an unpleasant smell, water infiltrations and definitely molds. The ship, after about a month, resumed the sea on June 30 and, after a short supply at the site of Sarroch in Sardinia, headed towards Ravenna. According to a statement from the office of the port of Annaba, the shipment was rejected because it did not comply with the quality standards agreed between African importers and Richardson supplier. So at an Italian port a ship has arrived strongly suspected of carrying a cargo of damaged and moldy wheat. Now, given that there are all the elements to intervene and control that ship before the discharge procedures begin; considering that someone will probably set that ship also for zootechnical use, if it does not be adequate for food use, I ask you to intervene and to bring the levels of control of safety standards within the European Union at least as much as those in force in Africa, since Africans did not want to use the ship for consumption either animal or human. I therefore ask you to know what the ship contains, for what reason it has arrived, to whom it is destined and whether it is the intention of the Ministry to dispose with the Central Inspectorate of the protection of quality and repression of fraud checks on all the holds of the ship arrived yesterday to Ravenna. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy, Senator Patuanelli, has the right to reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u77	Mr President, I would like to thank the honourable Member. The questions raised affix to the cereal sector, to the import of wheat in the Italian ports and in particular to the arrival near the port of Ravenna of a ship with a cargo of wheat that is presumed, in a fairly evident way, damaged. These materials concern the health and hygiene aspects of the wheat transported in the holds of the ships, subject to attacks of parasites and other alterations due to the long stowage time. These aspects fall within the competence of the Ministry of Health's Border Control Posts (CFPs) responsible for carrying out checks on both food and feed. In this regard I inform that we have promptly contacted the Air and Border Maritime Health Offices (USMAF) of Ravenna, who have reported to us that the ship MV Sumatra is at the moment at the mooring in rada near the port of Ravenna. The health offices are in close contact with the customs fraud officer for continuous updating. The state situation seems to be under control and there is obviously no permit to land. In general, I would point out that on foods of plant origin, the European Commission, on the basis of the evaluations of the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA), has specific control rates on consignments at risk for certain hazards in relation to the country of origin. Our Department of the central inspectorate for the protection of quality and fraud prevention of agri-food products (ICQRF) also carries out control activities in the cereals sector, in order to verify the conservation or the carrying out of any treatments for grain stored in silos; the accompanying documents and traceability of the goods are also examined; compliance with the analytical parameters of reference; the possible presence of active substances with a plant protection action used in the field and in the post-harvest; the process of processing of products derived from flour and meal; compliance with the labelling rules, conformity and truthfulness of mandatory and optional indications, with particular regard to the geographical origin reported on labelling devices and commercial documents. In order to increase the effectiveness of the controls to the import, IICQRF has undersigned a protocol of understanding with the general command of the Body of the captainies of port in order to have data and information on the marine transports of agricultural products and technical means of agricultural production, monitor the introductions on the national territory, carry out joint inspections to the staff of the same captainies and to have an easy access on the ships and the transported containers. Moreover, in order to combat in a more incisive way the possible illegal import of food products on the national territory, for years has been established a relationship of collaboration with the Agency of Customs and Monopolies, in order to be able to monitor the incoming flows of food and food raw materials from non-EU countries and to prevent the entry of products without the documentation of traceability, or not meeting the minimum quality requirements, established by the norms of sector. Thanks to the acquisition of state-of-the-art technical and scientific instrumentation, the analytical laboratory control activity of the ICQRF has been further enhanced, allowing rapid and effective screening strategies aimed at detecting the presence of food contaminants and their metabolites, including egg albumin, as well as any adulterants. This tried-and-tested system of checks will ensure, also in relation to the specific case reported to the questioner, that all necessary checks are carried out on the traceability, the quality and the actual destination of the imported grains, in order to prevent them from being illegally marketed in our country, in case they are found to be different of the product with respect to the provisions of the regulations of the field. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I give the floor to Senator De Bonis to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u78	Thank you, Minister. I'm quite satisfied with your answer. I know the attention you put on these issues and, therefore, I trust in the commitment that you will be devoting to the cereal issue for Italy. I would like to sum up to you that this case, like so many others - I have asked a lot of questions about this - shows how the grain load, which I understand is of the third category "western amber Durum," coming from Vancouver, has its own type of commodity and toxicological. Abroad (in the United States, Canada and Australia), toxicological quality is rigorously assessed. I am well aware that the Ministry is addressing this issue with the Single National Commission, which should harmonise Italian prices with international prices. Ever since there was Minister Martina, Ismea herself has always stated that this harmonisation in Italy was not there, leaving room for operations of distortion of the national market. Therefore, it is important that on all ships arriving there is an additional check and that the data be communicated to the telematic Stock Exchange, so that Ismea, in the reports that will provide the single national Commission, can make available to the commissioners all the information of qualitative and quantitative character, for a fair forecast of the prices in Italy and for a harmonization with the international prices.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u79	Senator Caligiuri has the right to explain the question 3-02679 on measures to protect quality Italian agricultural production, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u80	Mr Minister, since we have seen a fall in the price of cereals from abroad in recent weeks, which is causing the collapse of the Italian market, the Single National Wheat Commission should be a stable price observatory, contributing to criteria of greater transparency. However, there is a clear inequality between territories and supply chains and headquarters of the national single commissions, which requires a greater presence of the South, as it represents an important contribution to national production. The issue of unfair competition on wheat also concerns health issues related to the import, transport and storage of grains of foreign origin, whose control must better protect the safety of Italian consumers. The highest price of Italian wheat is precisely due to procedures and additional burdens on Italian producers, as they are subject to greater safety and control protocols for the management of the entire production cycle. In the same way, all other Italian food products are subject to production and sale procedures on the market, which involve additional charges compared to products of foreign origin, always to protect the quality of the Italian product that goes on the tables of consumers. So we ask to know: what the Minister intends to do to protect the income of Italian agricultural producers, who guarantee food safety for wheat and other food products, but are subject to increased production costs; given the drought season in which we are and the various natural disasters that have occurred, especially in South Italy, what extraordinary measures are planned to restore farmers, who at the end of the year will bring an extremely salty account, and how we can at the same time intervene on the issue of agricultural insurance; at what point is the creation of a brand that certifies and values the total Italianity to 100% of an Italian food product.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u81	The Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy, Senator Patuanelli, has the right to reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u82	Mr President, I would like to thank the Senator. Obviously the problem of price and in some way the protection of income in the cereals sector depends on several factors and, in order to support the sector, we need to act on several fronts, such as price transparency, the competitiveness of the sector and the integration of the supply chain. In this direction, for a clearer and more shared quotation of durum wheat, we are launching the CUN, the single national experimental Commission, for which the regulation of operation has recently been defined between the selling party, i.e. the associations of agricultural part, and the buyer part, Italmopa. We are therefore in the process of a historic phase in the formation of the price of durum wheat that will also allow to rebalance the supply chain relations. Moreover, in order to ensure income support for farmers, the "Durum wheat Fund" has been active since 2016, which has been refinanced by the 2020 Budget Act and implemented by Decree 20 May 2020, with a total budget of EUR 40 million. This fund provides for the payment of a contribution of EUR 100 for each hectare cultivated with durum wheat during the autumn-winter period of the previous year in favour of agricultural undertakings which have signed, by 31 December of the previous year, supply chain contracts lasting at least three years. Chain contracts are in fact one of the main means of supporting the agro-industrial policies managed by the administration and financing instrument that adapts well to a topic of economic development of the cereals sector and in particular of durum wheat, in order to improve the integration between the different operators of the supply chain. On supply chain contracts, the fund complementing the National Recovery and Resilience Plan provides for 1.2 billion allocations. With regard to the valorization of the Italianity of the product, together with correct information to the consumer, I would remind you that the indication of origin has already been introduced on the label of durum wheat for durum wheat semolina paste, with the aim of making evident also the origin of the raw material, as well as that of the finished product. Finally, with regard to measures to cover the risks of national cereal crops, we managed to achieve an increase in the CAP from 1% to 3% of the first pillar levy on risk management. I note that farmers can make insurance policies facilitated by European contributions, co-financed with national resources up to 70% of the premium expenditure incurred. Moreover, for the wheat sector, an aid measure on insurance expenditure facilitated by national resources has been active for a number of years, allowing the subscription of policies to cover revenues, including, therefore, price fluctuations such as the one reported. However, we must not forget that facilitated agricultural insurance, which has been allocated more than EUR 2.1 billion for the period 2015-2022, is the main instrument of intervention put in place by the state to deal with the heavy losses of income suffered by agricultural enterprises in the event of atmospheric adversity. I would also like to point out that the communication activity launched under the national rural development programme, which, among other things, aims to broaden the knowledge of the instruments available, has led to a slight but constant increase in the subscription of facilitated policies. Finally, for the next programming of Community funds for rural development, we are preparing a new instrument for ex ante intervention in the form of a national mutual fund, thanks to the possibility of increasing the levy. With the resources of the first CAP pillar 30% will be borne by the farmer and 70% by the resources of the second pillar FGASR. This possibility, which has already been requested and obtained by Italy thanks to the commitment of the Government and our MEPs, will allow to greatly widen the spread of risk management tools to territories and sectors such as those reported to date not adequately covered. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Caliguri has the right to intervene in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u83	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Patuanelli for his timely reply to a question which, because of its size and the myriad of issues connected with it, was not merely an argument. The question of agricultural production and supplies exposes Italy to the volatility of prices - this has explained it well - therefore, I can feel satisfied. I would like to use the time to sting the Commission, so you, Minister. That is why I would like to return once again to the uneasiness of our agricultural commitments due to climate phenomena. I think of the frosts, but also the sudden torrential rains and hailstorms. I mention only one episode as an example, that is what happened last June 12 in Calabria, where the hail record destroyed the harvest of fruit, in particular peaches and vegetables. Faced with such phenomena, which are becoming more and more frequent precisely because of climate change, combined with the presence of wildlife - which we shall be discussing shortly - which has seen us together this morning on the same stage for the demonstration of Coldiretti, but which should have seen us together in this House also this morning, as requested by Forza Italia and by the whole centre-right to approve in this House what has already been done in the Committee on Agriculture, there is a need for effective measures and for certainty of support. Also and above all this is a way of supporting the income of our entrepreneurs, protecting our companies producing quality as well as the entire circuit, starting from the strong arms of men and women who work every day our fields. Let us not leave our farmers alone, or else who will be entrusted with the task of caring for our beautiful natural heritage, fighting its abandonment? [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u84	Senator Bergesio has the right to explain the question 3-02674 on the protection of designations of origin of Italian agri-food products, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u85	Minister, the fake made in Italy, according to recent estimates, has now risen to over 100 billion euros per year. Let us bear in mind that italian soiling has grown by 70 percent over the last ten years. This phenomenon that falsifies the reality of Made in Italy with the use of words, colors, locations, images, denominations and recipes deceives the consumer, evoking the Italian origin of foods that are free of any link with our territory. Today's theme is wine, Minister, and specifically the defence of our Prosecco. The turnover of the Italian companies that produce wine has exceeded 11 billion euros, the companies that vinify are more than 40,000 and employ more than 35,000 employees. In 2020 our country exported wine for more than 6.2 million euros, one of which represented by Prosecco. In the first quarter of 2021 there was an export growth of 8 percent of wines. Minister, the new battle in which we are called to defend is involving Prosecco and began with the presentation to the European Commission by Croatia of the registration name of the traditional term "Prosek" for a firm white wine produced on Croatian territory. Already in 2013 Zagreb had tried to register the same name for a passito and would also call it "Prosek." At the time, the European Commission rejected the application because the protected designation of origin mark had already been awarded to the Italian Prosecco. This time the producers' concern is legitimate, because the application could be accepted at least as regards publication in the European Union Journal, a first step that would not mean the green light to this shameful application, but in any case a start of a period of two months in which public and private bodies will be able to submit their comments and the reasons why they believe it should not be accepted. We want to hear from you immediately that the Italian Government and the Ministry commit themselves to a formal and clear position against this request that is between the hallucinant and the catastrophic. Prosecco is only Italian, as are the hills of Conegliano and Valdobbiadene where the vines are cultivated. These lands - let us not forget - are listed on the UNESCO list as a World Heritage Site. This inscription does not have a symbolic value, but it means recognizing and decreeing the absolute cultural identity between the denomination - in this case "Prosecco" - and the territory in which it is produced. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u86	The Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy, Senator Patuanelli, has the right to reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u87	I would like to thank the Senator. I have already expressed my opinion very often in this House about the need to protect our PDO, PGI and all our distinctive products in general. Prosecco is a fraction of the Municipality of Trieste, so you can imagine if I will not defend Prosecco, its excellence and its quality. First of all, I would like to reassure you that we have already taken action at the European Commission by formally opposing the acceptance of Croatia's application for registration of traditional mention (MT) "Prosek" and the related publication procedure, so it is already an act. On the occasion of the CMO Management Committee of 29 June last, we represented our firm opposition to the acceptance of the request in question, since the mention corresponds, in translation, to the name of the DOC "Prosecco" and the DOCG "Conegliano Valdobbiadene Prosecco" and "Colli Asolani-Prosecco" in stark contrast to the European reference legislation aimed at protecting the products registered in the register of the European Commission's PDOs. In support of our position, we have also pointed out that since the first negotiations for the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, Croatia itself had made the same request that, in our opposition, was not accepted or subsequently transposed, as Senator Bergesio recalled, in the regulations and decisions relating to the Accession Treaty, nor entered in the appropriate register of the Commission. I therefore assure you that it is the Government's firm intention to continue to follow closely the issue represented in order to guarantee our productions the protection they deserve and to counter all possible attacks - it is right to call them that - to our prestigious PDO and PGI, not least the commercial usurpations that are perpetrated on the Internet sites. Unfortunately, the memory of how the Tocai affair ended is still fresh. We must not allow that situation to happen again. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u88	Senator Vallardi has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u89	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Patuanelli and I am prudently satisfied that we are very concerned about the situation. We are convinced that the Ministry will do everything possible to defend this Italian excellence, but we must put a little'more courage. Our ancients said yes vis pacem, para bellum, so we must prepare for a war that is already in place, because already in 2013 there had been an attempt to attack these excellences of Made in Italy; we have succeeded in its time, today we must further finance all consortia of denomination of protected origin (PDO) and denomination of controlled and guaranteed origin (DOCG), all consortia of protection, that in our country I remember being over 300. Particular attention should be paid to Prosecco, which is certainly a backbone of Italian agriculture. I come from Veneto, from the province of Treviso, just as you are from Trieste and I feel very close to you in this situation. However, all Italian agriculture is under attack, italian soiling costs us over 100 billion euros, so let's all join in defending our agriculture. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u90	Senator Parente has the right to explain the question 3-02675 on measures to increase the number of posts in medical area specialization schools, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u91	Mr President, Mrs Minister, we are talking about the specialization grants for young doctors. Over the last year, as a government and Parliament, we have increased the posts available, but the current system of medical specialization schools does not seem to in fact foresee the formation of a sufficient number of specialists for the coming years, in a contingency made even more dramatic by the post Covid and in the light of the many pensions that will be there in the next five to ten years. Every year 1,500 medical graduates decide to move abroad, placing Italy first in Europe for the migration of young doctors. In addition, medical personnel in Italy are the oldest in Europe. The training of young doctors and, in my opinion, also that of doctors of general medicine, which should be equated with schools of specialization, acquires a very important importance for the development of our country in the coming months. In the light of the direction taken by the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, investments in structures and technologies (from digitalisation to telemedicine, artificial intelligence) must also be accompanied by a strong exploitation of human resources. I would ask you, therefore, what your guidelines are in this regard, if you do not consider it appropriate to break down the training funnel of young doctors in access to specializations, providing for a sufficient number of grants for the coming years, including by extending training networks, for example, to the network of territorial health centres. Territorial medicine, in fact, is the main theme of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, also to avoid chicken hospitals, with the overcrowding of staff in training. Finally, I would like to ask you whether you do not feel that it is necessary to reform the arrangements for access to and stay at specialization schools in order to make more convergent the aspirations and desires for the specialization of young people and young doctors with the grants actually available, to which they have access. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for University and Research, Professor Mass, has the right to answer this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u92	Mr President, I would like to thank the interrogating senators who allow me to explain some of the initiatives on specialist medical training. As you know, the determination of the quantity of medical specialization grants follows a complex and complex process, which originates from the identification of the needs of specialist doctors on the national territory by the Ministry of Health and then continues with the finding of the necessary resources, made available by the Ministry of Economy and Finance and shared with the Permanent Conference for the relations between the State, the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces. The Ministry of the University also actively participates in this process, ensuring that the above requirements are adequately matched in the provision of training by the university system. On this point I want to say that much has already been done and more will be done in order to expand the training network, thanks to the work it is doing today, and that it has also done in the past years, the National Observatory for Health Training which also participates representatives of the MUR and health and which has expressly addressed recommendations to the universities, inviting them to expand the training networks especially for those schools where there is a need due to the low level of training. With reference, however, to the issue of the number of specialization grants, it has to be said that in recent years, thanks to Parliament's attention, there has been a growing trend. I remember we went from 5,000 bags in 2013 - 2014 to 13,400 in 2019 - 2020. So we are working over the years on the so-called training funnel, but we believe that there must be a further increase in the places in order to meet a decidedly increased period of need. This increase, which is planned and which we are discussing together with the Ministry of Health and the MEF, I hope it will already take place from this year, from the next part-session. The important task of my Ministry is to ensure a proper articulation of the training offer. I also want to communicate that the Ministry of University and Research will also promote a harmony between the needs and motivational levers in order to ensure the continuing training of our doctors. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I give the floor to the Senator Parente to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u93	Mrs. Minister, I am pleased with your reply and your commitment. We Members of the Senate Health Commission are also committed to this, so we will all play our part in a virtuous synergy between the Government and Parliament. I very much like what you said at the end of your speech on the fact that your Ministry must ensure the articulation of the training offer and the harmony between needs and motivation. In this regard, I say to you that before we are parliamentarians we are citizens and we have seen the commitment made by young doctors who are still waiting for specialization. On July 20th there will be the competition and I hope that the vaccine hubs will be a bit empty because there will be doctors who will participate in the contest. I think we should also find a way to enhance the experience of young doctors. We put them on the front line, from the Covid hospitals, to the U.S.A.S.A., to the vaccine hubs. We all know the work they are doing, a work also of organization, of booking vaccines, psychological accompaniment to citizenship, a teamwork with the other protagonists of these vaccinations that are nurses and volunteers. I therefore think that we should find a way - I repeat - to make the most of the great commitment of young doctors and doctors in general. Politics must not only thank them, but also enhance the work carried out in the front row in this difficult phase of the pandemic.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u94	Senator Verducci has the right to explain the question 3-02676 on scholarships for university students, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u95	Madam President, Madam Minister, at the heart of our question is the right to study, a very important political issue in particular in this difficult phase of crisis, which mortifies the expectations and hopes of many who are weaker and more affected by the effects of the pandemic, especially the youngest, because being able to study means being able to emancipate. We know that the crisis risks preventing many girls and boys from continuing to study and therefore giving up the most important thing they have, that we have, that is our life plan. If we do not intervene - but we must intervene - our society will be weaker. Investing in the right to study instead means giving strength to vital energies, freeing energies that are fundamental not only for individual destinies, but collective, for our country, for its role in the world. In a country like ours, in which studying is already difficult, we have too few, among the lowest in Europe, of enrolled, of graduates and of researchers; those who come from a technical professional institute must overcome a barrier sometimes insurmountable in order to be able to enter the university and continue to study and to graduate are in almost all the children of those who are already graduated. Well, if after the pandemic we have to build a new model of development, there must be the right to study at the centre. With great political force we have in recent years made important achievements, thanks also to our battles, which I want to remember: the one on the no tax area and the one able to double the state funds for scholarships. However, our system is still too fragile, with too many differences between Region and Region, with the risk of desertification of entire territories; it is a system with too high taxation. That is why, Mr President, we wanted, on our proposal, the Senate to carry out a cognitive investigation into the student condition. That is why, Madam Minister, today we ask you to exercise urgent delegation on the essential levels of performance, in order to recognize - as written in the Constitution - all students who are capable and deserving, even if they lack the means, the right to reach the highest levels of education. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u96	The Minister for University and Research, Professor Mass, has the right to answer this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u97	Mr President, the senators have touched on a very complex subject, which I summarize very briefly. Implementation of the law on the right to study has not yet been completed. A scheme of ministerial decree following Legislative Decree No. 68 of 2012, which contains the determination of the essential levels of performance (LEP) and the eligibility requirements for the right to university study, was presented to the State-Regions Conference in 2013, but did not reach the agreement. On that occasion, the Regions expressed the desire to be able to carry out a reconnaissance of the benefits actually offered by them before crystallizing them in the LEPs. This suspension of the process of detecting LEPs did not prevent, in any case, the issuing of another interministerial decree, No. 798 of 2017, by which it was possible to implement a significant part of the aforementioned legislative decree no. 68. With this decree, the Ministry has in fact defined the financial needs of the Regions, as well as the definition of the criteria and methods of repartitioning of the State Supplementary Fund for the grant of scholarships (FIS). On the basis of this decree, in the three years 2017-2019, the allocation of FIS resources was made in proportion to the financial needs of the Regions, also providing reward mechanisms for the Regions that had invested more resources on the right to study. Moreover, at the end of the three-year period, in agreement with the Regions, it was considered to intervene on the decree with some correctives. Thanks to a permanent interinstitutional technical table, a new interministerial decree was issued, No 853 of 12 November 2020, with which it will be possible to allocate FIS resources for the next three years. This measure, even if it does not complete the panorama of the interventions that the Ministry intends to adopt in the matter of right to study, has helped to overcome the existing criticalities, allowing - on the one hand - to avoid delays (today the disbursement of funds arrives at the beginning of the academic year) and - on the other hand - to be able to give the benefit of scholarships to the majority of students who have the right to do so. I conclude by reassuring the senators that, despite the interventions mentioned have allowed in recent years a development of the system of the right to study in these terms, it is my intention to speed up the process of adopting all the measures required by the legislation and reconstitute the technical table on LEP, which is also composed of representatives of the CNSU, CRUI, the Regions and local authorities, which can make a very important contribution to a new draft decree on the right to study.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u98	Senator Verducci has the right to intervene in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u99	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for this very important and concrete political statement. That's what we've been waiting for. We know that, for those who have nothing, being able to study is everything, especially in time, like what we live in, in which the technological revolution increasingly binds work to competence. Being able to study means the right to competence and therefore the right to work. This urgency, in these months, is also delivered to us by data. For example, we know that in this academic year the average of the exams carried out has returned to pre-Covid levels; however this is a misleading fact if read poorly. We know that distance learning has accelerated the careers of those in favorable and strong economic, housing and family conditions, while it has slowed down or even stopped all the others, including those who benefit from a scholarship, whose amount is too small and cannot cope with the enormity of the tsunami that struck us. Just as, Madam Minister, we know - and I conclude, Mr President - that the reform of the ISEE calculation, in the absence of an upward adjustment by the Ministry, of the values for access to the scholarship can create a short circuit in the battle that we are doing together to counter the real denied right that is the right of the appropriate non-beneficiary. Whoever has merit must be sustained in his progression and in his possibility of future: this is decisive for our country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u100	Senator Castellone has the right to explain the question 3-02673 on university specialization schools in community medicine and primary care, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u101	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic has shown us not only the strengths of our National Health Service, but also and above all the shortcomings: the most serious deficiency we have faced and which we still face is that of health personnel and, therefore, also medical staff, medical specialists and general medical doctors. This deficiency is certainly linked to the cross-cutting cuts that our National Health Service has undergone, but also to a misprogramming. You mentioned this earlier, Minister: today we have an important tool for programming, which is the technostructure that we have set up with an amendment to the 2019 budget law, which allows Agenas and the Observatory of Specialization Schools to plan the needs of specialists according to the health needs of the population. Let's hope it's operational soon. This pandemic also showed us how fundamental and indispensable it is to strengthen the territory, by networking and by having medical specialists and general medicine doctors work in multidisciplinary teams, because from the territory must start the early take-up of citizens. Today we have an important tool to remedy these deficiencies: this instrument is the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, which allocates huge resources precisely to the reform of the medicine of the territory, starting from the homes and hospitals of the community. But what are the specialists going to work in those facilities? In several Italian universities there is a specialization school, which is the school of specialization in community medicine and primary care, which - according to a decree of the Ministry of University and scientific and technological research of 1996 - forms specialists in the field of general medicine and primary care. Yet, these doctors today cannot operate as general - medical doctors. So, Minister, we ask you three things: first of all if the Ministry intends to urge the Government so that these medical specialists can operate as doctors of general medicine; secondly, if its Ministry intends to increase the contracts of specialized training and medicine of community and primary care; thirdly, how to enhance these specialists so that they can be of help for the achievement of the objectives of health of the PNRR and finally make operational the National Plan of Chronicness. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u102	The Minister for University and Research, Professor Mass, has the right to answer this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u103	Mr President, in relation to the subject raised, I must point out that the primary competence - as you already know - in the definition of quotas by type of specialization school, including that of community and primary care, is the responsibility of the Ministry of Health, pursuant to Legislative Decree No 368 of 1999. This also applies to the content of the specific training of general medical doctors, but you already know that. Having said that, I would like to acknowledge that the question raised by the senators must also be highlighted by certain aspects of interest to the University Ministry. As I have said, the Government is committed to a greater increase in the number of specialized training grants, because this corresponds to a need and a necessary strategic response aimed at strengthening the entire National Health Service, including the territory. In this process of growth, I believe that there should be an increase in the number of contracts reserved for specialization schools, including community medicine and primary care. And I'll report that to the Minister of Health. With regard to the specific request on the taking of initiatives aimed at monitoring the ways in which medical specialists in community medicine and primary care are valued once they access the National Health Service and to what extent they contribute to the implementation of the PNRR, I would like to assure you that these objectives will always be pursued in agreement with the Ministry of Health and in the context mainly of the Observatory I mentioned earlier. I conclude by stressing a point that I believe is very important for our Ministry, namely that in this phase of transformation of the Country, where investment in human capital is proving indispensable, we must do everything to focus the interventions aimed at raising the level of training of our young people, in particular if this corresponds also to a more general beneficial effect on the capacities of the SSN through the valorization of the training of professionals who will be called to work also in territorial medicine.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u104	Senator Castellone has the right to intervene in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u105	Madam Minister, I am satisfied and welcome the Government's commitment to further increase specialist training contracts, which - I would like to remind you - in 2018, when we arrived in Parliament, were just 6,200, while today there are 13,400, and so they have more than doubled. To these are added the 3,000 training in general medicine. So, almost all of the doctors who graduate today manage to have a specialized training contract. Today we asked her about this specialty because they are the only specialists who cannot operate in all the areas in which they are trained. They form in general medicine. And this is stated by the decree of the Ministry of University and of Scientific and Technological Research (MURST) of 1996; this is confirmed by the interministerial decree of 2015 and also by the European Directive of 2005 recognizes the requirements to operate in general medicine and in territorial medicine to these specialists and, therefore, it is a real regulatory vulnus that - in our opinion - must be filled. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u106	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u107	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-344.ana.u108	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 13 July, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 15:53 a.m.
