ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-376.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.31 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Giro, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 4 November. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-376.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-376.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-376.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on the draft law no. 1571, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, 674 and 1503. The rapporteur, Senator La Mura, requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-376.ana.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at last, more than a year after the vote at first reading in the House of Members, the draft law laying down provisions for the recovery of waste at sea and in inland waters and for the promotion of the circular economy, so-called sea-saving law, arrives in the Senate Chamber. Around the law saves the sea has created a strong interest from the entrepreneurial world, not only Italian, that it needs to recover the marine letter for its use in the supply chain of the circular economy, committing huge financing. Waste abandoned at sea is a resource that we must absolutely recover not only to implement the chain of the circular economy, but also because the aquatic life that takes place on the seabed is suffocating under the weight of the sunken waste, destroying the benthic habitats and not only. Floating waste hinders very important processes of chemical-physical exchange between air and sea: I think - for example - solar energy, which activates photosynthesis chlorophyll and, therefore, life at sea, or the very important exchange of oxygen between air and sea, which is also important for life. Animals ingest floating waste, and not only those on the surface that we can see, but also those that are found at all depths, to the bottom, exchanging them for plankton, such as - for example - transparent envelopes that are ingested instead of jellyfish, condemning them to an atrocious death, with important repercussions on the decrease of fish stocks. As the last example that I would like to bring to you, some studies conducted by the hospital Fatebenefratelli have detected the presence of polypropylene in the placenta and fetus of some women: where the fetus in its development goes to identify the synthetic material as part of itself, the presence of plastic in the prenatal environment in fact could alter the balance in the responses that the immune system of the child adopts towards the external environment, modifying the delicate epigenetic phenomena. Therefore it is really very important to remove the waste from the sea and, subsequently, not to have it discharged, possibly through the ban on the use of some plastics. This is so true that the measure under consideration has been implemented, because of its importance, with the cooperation of all political forces, and I would like to thank my colleagues and colleagues from the 8th Chamber of Deputies and 13th Chamber of Deputies for this. Senate Commission, as well as the Government, which wanted to complete the process at second reading here in the Senate. And I would also like to thank the former Minister, Mr Costa, who had the sensitivity and foresight to understand the urgency of tackling the problem of waste at sea from the beginning of his mandate. The law saves the sea connects to the European strategy for plastic in the circular economy of 2018, in which within the European Union has adopted the directive on the reduction of the impact of certain plastic products on the environment and the directive on the harbour facilities of collection for the delivery of the waste of the ships, both in phase of transposition near the two Chambers. It can make a significant contribution to the achievement of the objective of the Marine Strategy Framework Directive to achieve or maintain, where already existing, a good ecological status of marine waters, as well as to the achievement of the objectives of the green deal, or to create an economy separated from nature, and of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. The bill saves the sea consists of 17 articles, of which 10 were added by the Chamber and Senate Environment Commissions. Articles 1 to 6 and 12 deal with the management of marine waste and the circular economy; Articles 7 to 14 deal with raising awareness of environmental education, which falls within the objective of preventing the abandonment of waste and some measures for the protection of marine ecosystems that I will talk about later. Article 15 establishes the interministerial table of permanent consultation on the sea, while Article 16 provides for the Minister of the ecological transition to present an annual report to be submitted to the Chambers on the implementation of the law saves the sea. The draft law in question, in summary, therefore aims to contribute to the recovery of the marine ecosystem, to the promotion of the circular economy, to the awareness of the community and to the correct management of waste. The waste is divided into two types in relation to the method of recovery: the accidentally caught waste and the voluntarily collected waste. The rule encourages the recovery of waste at sea and inland waters - with an amendment to the House has also added the reference to rivers, lakes and lagoons - and their bestowal to the collection facilities, as it allows those who recover them to bring them to the ground without risk of incurring sanctions. In addition, you can give them free of charge. It has also been defined that waste management is the responsibility of the community in the form of a component that is added to the waste tax or fee, because the health of the sea is an interest of all. Both types of waste collected are then included in the definition of municipal waste, always with the aim of facilitating its delivery. Cleaning campaigns are regulated within the bill. [[Brusio.]] You must excuse me, Mr President, but I cannot concentrate on the chaos behind me.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-376.ana.u6	Forgive me for a moment, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-376.ana.u7	Colleagues, it is indeed very complicated for the rapporteur to be able to develop her speech with a strong background buzz. I would ask you, if not to pay attention, at least to make no noise. THE MURA, rapporteur. Thank you, Mr President. I was talking about the cleaning campaigns that were regulated. There is the interest of many categories of stakeholders who wanted to be included in the list of promoters of these campaigns: I am referring, for example, to managers of protected areas, environmental associations, fishermen's associations, cooperatives and fisheries companies. The heart of the measure, together with the articles related to waste management, is Article 4, which deals with the promotion of the circular economy, defining the criteria and methods by which accidentally caught and voluntarily collected waste cease to be qualified as such to enter the circular economy system. We have also included in the Senate's Environment Committee a way of reducing the impact of plastic pollution from rivers to the sea, introducing three years of testing of automatic collection systems for floating waste from rivers. We know that, every year, more than 600 million macro floating waste arrives at sea from European rivers, including disposable waste, and 40% of the objects arrive at sea already fragmented. Furthermore, we have regulated awareness-raising campaigns by amending the article during the examination in the Environment Commission, with the aim of ensuring adequate information for fishermen and operators in the sector on how waste is to be delivered. This is part of prevention, as well as recovery action. We have promoted the environmental education of schools of every order and grade, in order to make pupils aware of the importance of preserving the environment, in particular the sea and inland waters. In Article 9, the correct practices for the delivery of waste by fishermen are also promoted. There is also an article on the labelling of synthetic microfibres, so that a transparent label can be placed on microfibre fabrics which also shows how to wash this type of clothing. A very important novelty concerns the introduction by the EIA-Evaluation of state environmental impact for the realization of desalination plants; a standard necessary for the protection of the marine ecosystem and, in particular, for the ecosystems of brackish waters and, therefore, lagoons. There is, in fact, a strong impact from the discharges of desalination plants, which we clearly need to deal with. It is therefore important to introduce the environmental impact assessment standard. I shall conclude, Mr President, with another very important article, on 14, which was introduced into the Environment Commission to limit the impact on the environment of aquaculture and fish farming activities, as provided for in Article 111 of the Environment Code. It aims to remedy the very serious delay in the adoption of the decree for the definition of environmental criteria relating to the installation of installations at sea. For fifteen years aquaculture and fish farming activities have been carried out in the absence of environmental containment criteria, to the detriment of the health of coastal marine ecosystems and to promote the development of illegal activities. In essence, the measure under consideration is slim, although it has received many contributions from Parliament. Mr President, I shall conclude and ask you to be able to submit the report to the documents, which are available to the senators. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-376.ana.u8	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. Your speech would have deserved more attention.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-376.ana.u9	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-376.ana.u10	Mr President, first of all I would like to express my sincere and not formal thanks for the long, articulate and valuable work done by this House, which adds to a equally fruitful work at first reading on a measure that is timely in the ecological transition that we have in mind for our country, understood as a renewed push for the protection of our natural resources, combined with our short and long-term economic and social development horizon. As has been mentioned several times and as the rapporteur has explained very well, the draft law in question has the merit of combining the protection of the marine resource (but also rivers, water ports, habitats), respecting the safety of operators and volunteers, with the aims and objectives of the circular economy, such as the reuse and second life of the products, even abandoned. Fishermen and fishing fleets can make a significant contribution to protecting the sea from pollution and waste disposal. In this respect, the draft law not only makes it possible, in a desirable way, to supply accidentally caught waste in places suitable for their collection, but also aims to promote, through specific interventions, such conducts. In particular, I would like to express my appreciation for the further and valuable enrichment of the text following the work of the relevant Commissions. I am referring, among others, to waste capture systems voluntarily placed to intercept waste; to the necessary supervision carried out by the Regulatory Authority for Energy, Networks and the Environment (ARERA) so that the burden of waste management collected is properly spread over the entire national community; as well as to the specific regulation on the collection of floating waste in rivers through the role of the authorities in the district basin; not to mention the role of the awareness-raising activity of the operators in the sector, as well as the environmental education campaigns that here - as in the directive against the abandonment of disposable plastic products - is not a corollary, but the framework for any regulatory intervention. Finally, in this latter respect, there is further discipline on products that release microfiber into water to combat pollution of the sea by plastics. Protection of the sea, protection of our waters, reuse and products from raw materials and second products coming from the sea are key concepts that presuppose, laying the foundations, for any initiative or project related to the PNRR, the plan of ecological transition, the strategy for the circular economy, as well as any other act of strategic planning of the environmental, ethical, energy and social future of our country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-376.ana.u11	We shall now proceed to the vote on the articles of draft law No 1571, in the text adopted by the Commission. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-376.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-376.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-376.ana.u14	Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, on a point of order and a confirmation on your part. At the beginning of the sitting, it seems to me that I heard the request for an electronic vote made by the Movimento 5 Star Group. Were they already decorating twenty minutes at the time we started voting?
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-376.ana.u15	Yeah, we checked. They had just passed, because they spoke for twelve minutes the rapporteur and for seven minutes the Undersecretary and then there was the reading of the minutes. Thank you, however, for the report. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). PRAYER. I'm asking to talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. PRAYER. Mr President, since I would have liked to make an explanation of vote on Article 5, can I make an explanation of vote on Article 6? PRESIDENT. - The debate is As the examination of a draft law from the drawing up office is not possible. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 6. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 7. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 8. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Rule 9. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 10. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 11. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 12. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 13. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 14. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 15. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 16. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 17. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-376.ana.u16	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-376.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-376.ana.u18	MORONESE (Mist). Mr President, thank you for allowing me to speak in an explanation of vote. Colleagues, citizens, in this epochal phase of change and ecological transition, which sees our country strongly committed to meeting the challenges and reforms foreseen in the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, we are called today to give a strong, decisive and above all concrete signal towards the direction of environmental protection and health of all of us. We have the opportunity to give life to a rule that I would like to define not only of an environmental nature, but also and above all a law of civilization. The pollution of our seas has taken on devastating proportions. Every minute the equivalent of a truck full of plastic ends up in the oceans, causing the death of turtles, birds, fish, whales and dolphins and compromising the delicate balance of marine ecosystems and the entire food chain. According to disturbing estimates, every day about 8 million tons of plastic are dispersed at sea, not to mention heavy metals, solvents and toxic sludge from industrial activities that are irreversibly accumulated in the greets of our rivers and on the bottoms of our seas. In our sea 134 species are victims of plastic ingestion; smaller plastic fragments enter the food chain and arrive on our tables; fibers and microfibres have also been found in oysters and mussels, with concentrations that endanger the health of men; microplastics have also been detected in drinking water of both tap, bottled and in foods such as beer, salt and honey. The emergence of plastic pollution in the seas and waters in general has taken on alarming proportions. In order not to become irreversible it is essential today to approve the draft law under consideration that, born from a vision of the former Minister Costa, must become, after more than two years of gestation, the first significant step to stem a plague that can no longer be tolerated. Thanks to this measure, fishermen will finally be able to land the plastic accidentally caught at sea, in the lakes, rivers and lagoons in a free way and without receiving sanctions, given the current ban. The waste can thus be delivered to the port facility of collection and started to the process of circular economy. Great attention is also paid to cleaning campaigns, enhancing what industry associations have already done for years with the promotion of days dedicated to cleaning the beaches, river banks and lake areas, which arouse great interest and active participation of citizens. The culture of respect for the environment, however, passes through education and information. For this reason, advertising and awareness-raising activities have been planned, by the competent port authorities or territorially competent municipalities, towards fishermen and operators in the sector in order to train them on the methods of the delivery of accidentally caught or voluntarily collected waste. In addition, the Ministry of Education's activities to promote, in schools of all levels, initiatives to make pupils aware of the importance of the conservation of the environment and, in particular, of the sea and inland waters, as well as of the correct arrangements for the delivery of waste are strengthened. However, much remains to be done, for example for eutrophication, plastic waste and non-sustainable fisheries, as can be seen from the European Commission's report on the implementation of the Marine Strategy Framework Directive of 25 June 2020. With the adoption of the so-called sea-saving law, on which we will vote in favour, we can all give an important signal. I would like to point out to the Government that the final approval of the measure would also give an immediate response to Article 16 of the Final Declaration of the G20 of Rome that has just been concluded. Everyone has committed themselves to the environment, promising to stop the loss of biodiversity and with targets to be achieved by 2030. The measure would therefore allow Italy to be at the normative vanguard throughout Europe today and even to exercise a leading role, de facto leader, vis-à-vis other countries of the world. Let me first of all thank Sergio Costa for her far-sightedness, the rapporteur, Mrs La Mura, for her expertise and all the Members of the Commission who have worked in full synergy on this process. I also warmly thank all environmental associations for their valuable contribution and support. Colleagues, thank you for your attention and above all good vote to all. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-376.ana.u19	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-376.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-376.ana.u21	CUCCA (IV-PSI). Mr President, gentlemen of the Government, esteemed colleagues and esteemed colleagues, we are finally considering a measure that we should perhaps have taken care of before today, but in the end it is better late than never before. We think of plastic flower pots, pieces of mattress, 30 square meters of plastic and cellophane sheets, even a corrugated tube for electrical installations. You might think they're items on the shelves of a supermarket. But no: it is what was found inside a sperm whale that was beached last year in Sardinia: 23 kilos of plastic in the stomach of that animal. It is evident that this is one of the episodes that most tells the gravity of the state of our seas. It is such a serious state that the WWF has launched an extremely clear alarm: by 2050, i.e. in twenty-nine years, when our boys will become adults and be about forty years old, if things are not changed, there will certainly be more plastic in the seas than fish: a worrying scenario, which needs to be remedied by drastically reversing the course. With the law saves the sea we try to make precisely this inversion; a law that on the one hand certainly has the merit of increasing the audience of those who can activate for the cleaning and the safeguard of the sea; on the other, it also previews a multiplicity of interventions aimed at the reduction of the consumption of plastic, and we are now living it in everyday life. This measure is therefore urgent and absolutely necessary, and we must be very pleased that it will come to its final approval tonight. Suffice it to say that, of the 300 million tons of plastics that are produced every year globally, 8 million go to sea, most of which comes from the hinterland and is dragged into the sea by urban discharges, rivers and rainwater. In this sense, I must say that it is also a matter of personal education - I will come back to this subject later - which has certainly been lacking to date. Only now, when the situation has become dramatic, do we realize that a drastic and possibly decisive intervention is necessary, which will certainly not improve things very quickly, but which at least allows us to start on a new path. The problem is obviously serious and concerns our Mediterranean, which - as we know - is a semi-closed sea and, in the absence of incisive interventions - as we hope they will be carried out with this measure - risks becoming a mega-pattumerie that collects much of the waste that comes from the ground. The problem - as I said - is very serious, since every plastic object, once at sea, in a short time breaks into multiple microscopic pieces because of the effect of the sun and the corrosive action of salt water. In breaking up, plastics emit harmful substances that pollute water. Moreover, those small particles, exchanged for food, are ingested by fish and seabirds and become one of the main causes of their death by suffocation. They are transformed, therefore, into a toxic presence in the sea, which enters directly into our fish supply chain and our food chain, finally arriving on our tables. In fact, this measure encourages the recovery of waste at sea by fish workers, and I am talking about fishermen, to be clear. This is an extremely important innovation, which significantly changes the current state of affairs. Until now, in fact, according to current legislation, fishermen were discouraged from collecting garbage, because, in the event that they collected discards at sea and carried them to shore (even the scraps accidentally finished in their nets), they were considered producers of waste and ended up being burdened with the relative disposal charges. Even - as has happened in several circumstances - they could be paradoxically charged with the illicit transport of waste. This law puts an end to a certain system, because sometimes it happened that fishermen themselves, precisely in order not to incur the penalties or the payment of the costs for disposal and therefore not to burden their economy with the consequent costs, rejected the waste collected by the nets. Now, instead, with this law it is expected that fish entrepreneurs can recover the solid waste dispersed in the sea during the exercise of the fishing, giving them then to the ecological islands established in the ports, without any economic burden to them. This cost will obviously have to be distributed throughout the community through a new component included in the waste tax. In essence, what we are doing today is to make fishermen - and this is a great novelty - of the ecological operators of the sea to all intents and purposes. They will also be able to obtain an environmental certificate that will enable them to benefit from the premium benefits. This model already exists in Italy experimentally in certain territories, but now it is institutionalized everywhere. In short, we start cleaning up the sea and we do it with professional allies who know the problem better than all of us, because they deal with us every day. This decree-law will therefore allow fishermen to play an important role in the protection of marine waters. It is very important to equip ourselves with these instruments capable of safeguarding the quality of the waters of the seas, all starting from a fact: much of the pollution of the waters also depends on our behaviour. I come back to the reasoning I used to make: for this reason it is important that the so-called sea-saving measure also includes awareness-raising and environmental education in schools, in order to increase awareness among the population, especially for the new generations, about the importance of environmental protection, the need for less plastic consumption and the need to promote the circular economy, i.e. the continued reuse of resources. The problem of prevention is a very important one, because we have arrived, not only in this field, at aberrant consequences precisely because we have avoided prevention and education. The measure under consideration is intended - and is very important - to raise awareness from schools in such a way that children understand the importance of nature. Moreover, I want to say that young people are much more sensitive than we are to environmental matters and, therefore, they will certainly be absorbent papers when these awareness-raising works are implemented from schools. The text also includes measures for the recovery of beached biomass from marine plants or algae, by moving to other areas appropriate from the naturalistic point of view or by re-entry into the sea, once cleaned from a number of harmful substances. In short, the measure foresees a whole series of concrete actions that aim to reduce marine pollution: it has, that is, the objective to counter a problem that is becoming greater and bigger and takes on ever more worrying dimensions, as evidenced previously. In recent years six plastic islands have been identified in the world, consisting of a huge agglomeration of waste moving offshore, driven by currents. The largest - as an example - is located in the Pacific Ocean between Japan and Hawaii; it is called the great pacific garbage patch and has reached the size of France, Germany and Spain combined. In the face of such serious situations, it is necessary to adopt the measures we are taking, which I hope are only the start of that path of awareness which will lead us to progressively eliminate this very serious problem, finally opening the way to the effective protection of our environment, our seas, our air, our territories. It is a well-started process, but we must continue it and our commitment will be there. For this reason, on behalf of Italy Viva-Partito Socialist Italiano, I announce the vote in favour of the measure under consideration. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-376.ana.u22	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-376.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-376.ana.u24	IANNONE (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the purpose of this measure is very much appreciated, so it is true that Brothers of Italy voted in favour of Article 1 which composes the text. In all honesty, however, we must say that the title is as ambitious as it is inconsistent with the content of the bill. Brothers of Italy immediately recognized the need to protect and enhance the sea resource and presented, well before Minister Costa did so, a draft law both to the House, signed by colleague Rizzetto, and here to the Senate, with the bill at the first signature of the undersigned and of all the members of the Brothers of Italy Group. However, as regards the content of our proposal for a law, how it was in the Commission, first in the House and then in the Senate, we must gather a closure in receiving our suggestions, which, in our opinion, would have made this bill much more effective and concrete. Moreover, from a political point of view, we must note that if such a sloppy text takes more than two years to be approved, let us imagine how much time it will take to achieve the so much fuzzy environmental transition. We have provided our contributions through amendments that aimed to make this text really more accident: to give a tax credit to fishermen for every quintal of waste collected; to create ecological areas at every port to dispose of waste; to ensure that it was much more effective in the intervention on rivers, lakes, lagoons, for example by focusing on an experience that has given positive results within local authorities, such as river contracts, that is to say, going to the source of pollution that ends in marine waters. All this because Brothers of Italy has a deep and true environmental culture. [[Applause]] We have been taught that the environment is the other face of the sacred. We are anthropocentric environmentalists, balanced, distinct and distant from fanatic climatism that meets so much support, but absolutely without practical repercussions. We believe that this measure is an example of how much more could be done and instead we think only and exclusively of placing ideological flags. The protection and enhancement of the marine resource for the creation of a blue economy cannot be without the role that must be recognized to the fishermen, that in a sudden way they have been defined by the former minister Costa's sweepers of the sea. We prefer to call them "sentinels of the sea," that is, those whom the sea knows and who derive from the sea their source of sustenance. That's why they could never want to hurt him. We believe that the measure could be improved considerably, but also the philosophy of always implementing measures of invariance of expenditure does not pay the result that we want to achieve. If we really believe in it, we need concrete, effective measures and also resources, but immediately, beyond the propaganda that is being done on the PNRR. For this reason, the measure to us seems more like a "clean sea" - we hope it serves at least this - than a safe sea. In any case, a patriotic party such as the Brothers of Italy, which always means in this way also its role of opposition, not being able to believe in the text in question, wants at least to hope that this is the beginning of a work on the sea. I therefore announce the abstaining vote of the Fratelli d'Italia Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-376.ana.u25	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-376.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-376.ana.u27	MIRABELLI (PD). Mr President, the draft law that we are about to adopt, in a text that is certainly amended - and I mean improved, thanks to the work of many - as compared to that of the House of Members, responds to the unavoidable need to address the issue of the restoration of marine ecosystems and inland waters at a regulatory level. We need to prevent and reduce waste at sea; we need to promote the circular economy and raise awareness of these issues. It is necessary to promote virtuous patterns and behaviours, to prevent the phenomenon of waste abandonment and to make waste collection in marine waters, rivers, lakes and Italian lagoons easier and more widespread. That's what the bill deals with. At international level, the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development of the United Nations also sets out, among its objectives, the sustainable conservation and use of oceans, seas and marine resources and, at European level, the National Recovery and Resilience Plan identifies the restoration and protection of seabeds and marine habitats as one of the missions to invest in, including to reverse the decline of Mediterranean ecosystems. This bill is and must only be the first part of a long-term strategy for environmental protection and sustainable development. The chronicles, on the other hand, report with increasing frequency the news of so-called plastic islands wandering in the oceans and our seas, and it is common experience - I believe - that we have checked with our eyes the pollution of our beaches and our coasts, in particular the pollution from non-degradable plastic materials, which today is estimated to represent 85% of marine waste. It is an emerging situation that we find ourselves in, that we need to remedy with seriousness and speed: that is why we hope that the bill, with its changes, can soon be approved in the House and become applicable for the benefit of the environment and of all of us. In order to address a problem of this complexity, such as marine pollution and surface water, the bill saves the sea intervenes with a series of measures that encourage the collection; facilitate the cleaning campaigns; simplify the management of waste accidentally caught in the seas and inland waters; update the environmental code and new protection requirements, promote environmental awareness activities in schools for the conservation of the environment, the sea and water and the correct delivery of waste and give fish entrepreneurs recognition of sustainable environmental activities, including with incentive systems, in favour of any owner of boats that recovers and distributes to the ground plastic waste accidentally caught or voluntarily collected. Again, for the conscious use of materials by consumers, rules are introduced for the labelling of products containing microfibres which, as we know, are one of the elements of plastic pollution in the sea. An interministerial consultation table is established at the Ministry of the ecological transition to coordinate the action to combat marine pollution and monitor the progress of waste recovery following the implementation of this law, ensuring the dissemination of data and contributions. It will be the Ministry of the ecological transition that will provide the Chambers with a report on the implementation of the rules to safeguard the sea. The draft law introduces two definitions into our system: that of accidentally caught waste, which refers to waste collected through capture systems, provided that they do not interfere with the ecosystem functions of bodies of water at sea, in lakes, rivers, lagoons, nets during fishing operations and those occasionally collected at sea, in lakes, rivers and lagoons by any means; the other definition is that of voluntarily collected waste, during the campaigns of cleaning of the sea, lakes, rivers and lagoons. It is a very important step and it is the same European legislation, in particular the recent Directive 883 of 2019 on port reception facilities for ship waste, which provides for the inclusion, among the waste of vessels subject to the provisions of the Directive, also of accidentally caught waste, defined as waste collected from nets during fishing operations. The Directive provides that Member States shall make collection facilities available in all ports adapted to the needs of vessels which normally use the port and that an appropriate waste collection and management plan is drawn up and implemented for each port and that, precisely in order to facilitate the supply of passively fished waste, no fee is imposed on such waste, in order to ensure a right of delivery without further charges based on the volume of waste delivered. The Directive also provides that, where appropriate, Member States shall cover those costs with revenues generated by alternative financing schemes, including waste management systems and Union, national or regional funding available. These forecasts, together with the provisions of the draft law governing the conduct of cleaning campaigns aimed at the voluntary collection of waste that can be organized by the municipalities, but also by other subjects (from cooperatives to fishing enterprises, fishing associations, the operators of bathing establishments), aim to make it easy and facilitate collection activities so far made extremely difficult, when not prohibited, even to the best-intentioned volunteers. The aim was to encourage the promotion of the circular economy by providing for a special decree of the Ministry of the ecological transition aimed at establishing criteria and methods by which accidentally caught and voluntarily collected waste ceases to be classified as waste, in order to promote the recycling of plastic and materials that are not compatible with the marine ecosystem and internal waters in accordance with the management criteria set out in Article 179 of the environmental code. The provision of rules for the management of beached plant biomass for their re-entry into the natural environment, as well as the introduction of the financing of a three-year experimental programme for the recovery of plastics in rivers, also favour the initiation of a virtuous circle. The bill, therefore, is important for us: it aims to raise awareness and spread virtuous models for the prevention of the abandonment of waste in ecosystems and for the proper management of those that today invade our coasts, our sea, our rivers. A law is not enough to achieve these objectives, but it is a first step and, as I said, it is essential that it can be finally adopted quickly. That is also why, and with this wish, we are voting in favour of the Democratic Party. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-376.ana.u28	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-376.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-376.ana.u30	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, the draft law before us, which finally arrives in this House for its approval, is a very important step which will also have to be followed up by other measures. It is no coincidence that the bill has been called "save sea." It deals with one of the crucial issues relating to the protection of our seas and in particular of our Mediterranean Sea, which is also a closed sea, therefore a particular sea that suffers much stronger human pressures than others. The measure also addresses the issue of the presence of waste in the marine environment, which consists of 85%, as other colleagues have already pointed out in their speeches, of plastics. That is the fundamental point. The draft law is trying in some way not only to intervene, rightly by amending and incorporating a number of rules, but it is trying to push and help fishermen in particular, but in general those responsible for all vessels, to give waste properly. This solves a problem, even though many people think it is a minor matter. In fact, the legislation provided for in Article 2 of the European Directive, which equates waste accidentally caught with waste from ships, had to be implemented. For the failure to transpose this directive, among other things, we already had an infringement procedure in place, so the draft law we are examining is also helping in this respect. To date, in fact, something incredible happened: even the most virtuous operators who wanted to help, did not have the possibility to give waste to an ecological island and therefore not to be accused of abandoning the waste themselves. Therefore, legislation solves a problem and encourages proper behaviour. The bill, in fact, provides for a series of absolutely fundamental norms: information campaigns, awareness campaigns, the drive for the circular economy, also setting a deadline within which the Ministry of the ecological transition will have to indicate the methods of recovery of materials. Among other things, as we know, it can also help to stimulate other activities. Think of how many nets are dumped at sea, creating considerable problems and that in this way can not only be recovered but recycled and materials can be reused. Now, we are talking about a problem that is not small. The measure tackles it and lays the foundations for starting a path that is all within the commitments that we continually take: the 2030 European Agenda, the commitments of the G20, which someone has mentioned, and I would also like to add those, which we hope will lead to some outcome, of COP26. These are commitments to safeguard our ecosystems and biodiversity. We're talking about 71 percent of the earth's surface. 95 percent of the world's waters are made up of the sea, so you understand how crucial it is to intervene, to safeguard, to be able to do operations that save a vital element for survival on the planet. The sea certainly has many problems, not only related to waste. Let us think about what the acidification process, which is unfortunately causing a number of damage, such as the removal of particular ecosystems, means in relation to climate change. I am thinking, for example, of our Mediterranean, even off Campania, of the whole coral system. We have a number of problems which need to be addressed even more clearly. I would like to thank the 13th Commission, its President and the rapporteur, who not only took note of the draft law approved by the House, but also made a number of very important and crucial changes. I am thinking, for example, of the issue of microfibres: we do not know what labelling means, but the information campaign, because citizens are not aware of it. We must put in place operations that are certainly dependent on the legislators and political decision-makers, who must take action, but we must link them to the involvement of the citizens, to the information campaigns. The article introduced is therefore absolutely crucial because, especially with the issue of labelling, it makes us understand what we are wearing and what it means to use it in one way or another. They sound like small things, but they're important. Most of the problems relating to the sea - and thus the other problem, which concerns the impact on people's health - concern microfibres, which end up in the fish food chain and therefore in the people's food chain. We do not realize the impact of these waste, the microplastics, these fragments. Think, for example, of the operation we did on the whole cosmetic part: no one knew that to make us beautiful we produced damage to the sea. The draft law under consideration therefore has the merit of doing something concrete, because Article 2 does something concrete and offers an opportunity: it equates the waste accidentally caught with those of the ships, it gives the opportunity to properly confer on the ecological islands, it intervenes on the circular economy, because it also indicates the objective of recycling and recovery; it also encourages fishermen, not only because obviously the cost is put at the expense of the community, of general taxation, but it also does another operation saying that if you recover, if you use material with low environmental impact, it has been recognized, you have an additional element of recognition. It's no accident. All of you have received an appeal - a small video - on this bill, which has seen protagonists not only environmental associations, but all the operators of the sea. This is to make it clear that, with proper work from an institutional and legislative point of view, but on the ground, it is possible to carry out virtuous operations. In this sense, the table provided for in the bill is absolutely crucial. We all know that this is not enough, but it is a very important and significant step. I am referring, for example, to the intervention provided for in Article 14 on aquaculture, to the guidelines on desalination plants introduced into the House and to what rivers lead to recovery; above all, it is indicated to all actors, economic operators and voluntary organizations and environmental organisations to protect the sea, to be able to work together, because saving the sea is a fundamental part of the possibility of saving biodiversity and life on the planet. That is why I am very pleased to announce the Group's vote in favour. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-376.ana.u31	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-376.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-376.ana.u33	GALLONE (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, today is, however, a good day for the Senate, for Parliament, everything and for each of us, we who are the voice of the citizens and who today, while COP26 is in progress in Glasgow and the G20 meeting has just ended in Rome, we also do our part in this House, approving four measures, one more important than the other. Last week we left with the approval of the law of European delegation and of all the directives with environmental purposes; then we passed the constitutional law on insularity, to protect our splendid major islands, Sardinia and Sicily; finally, we voted in third reading the constitutional law in Constitution to introduce the protection of the environment, ecosystems and animals. Today we are preparing to lay off a highly anticipated law, the so-called law saves the sea, to which also Forza Italia has worked and has given its contribution. These are important measures, all aimed at strengthening the commitments to bring Italy to become a sensitive country, in the most accomplished sense of the term, towards the environment and its protection. These are measures which, of course, do not solve all the problems connected with climate change, energy issues and the protection of our planet, but which are certainly a good start, a necessary and indispensable starting point to deal responsibly with the long period of ecological transition that we are living and that will have to lead us to completely review our system of life and development in order to guarantee to us, but above all to future generations, a quality of life and well-being in harmony with our planet, indeed, I would say to guarantee our life on earth, in the knowledge that without a change of paradigm we risk the life of humanity, perfectly aware that it will be the earth itself that rejects us, because the world does not end, if anything, the human species ends. We should therefore invest so much in adaptation, technological innovation, the great public-private alliance and training, aware that there are no simple solutions to complex problems, but we need - I repeat - education, training, experience and competence not to end up in simplistic climate populism. Education and training, first of all, and I hope that being taken up by your child for wrongdoing will be worth more than the most severe sanctions. This law, although not one of the best possible, is a start. It is a law that surely could have been braver, but, as they say, the excellent enemy of good. However, it is, of course, a series of concrete actions with which Italy begins to respond to the European directives and shows how each nation can help to make a difference. When I speak of every nation, I am referring to the fact that, for example, plastic in our sea - a huge quantity - comes from Turkey, Spain, Egypt and France as well, so, without agreements and consultations with the other Mediterranean countries, we risk making our interventions less effective. Today we talk about the sea, we talk about the source of life, the aquatic environment from which every living being originally formed, the primordial maternal womb. Would we mistreat our mother? Could we remain indifferent by seeing her used, abused, violated, neglected? I don't think so. Italy is a peninsula embraced by that sea that has always been so generous for fishing, for tourism, for transport and connections, for the climate. The Italian territorial waters represent one fifth of the Mediterranean Sea and are a treasure trove of unique biodiversity. Our country has 8,000 kilometers of coastline, 32 protected marine areas, 9 archipelagos, 27 smaller inhabited islands, over 500 ports and landings. There are 200,000 blue Italian companies that produce 3% of our gross domestic product. Moreover, our position makes us Europe's headland in the Mediterranean; we are, in fact, the zipper in Euro-Mediterranean policies. The marine ecosystem produces more than 50 percent of the oxygen we breathe and absorbs 30 percent of CO produced, but only if it is in good health. That is why pollution is a very painful plague and that is why action is needed. From 5 to 13 million tons of plastic every year at sea, unimaginable quantities. The bill saves the sea is a first step, I repeat. We do not hide that we would have wanted it even more extensive, but surely it will become an effective and concrete tool to begin to realize also what Europe asks us with the green deal and the mission healthy oceans. The Italian territorial waters represent one fifth of the Mediterranean Sea, a casket of unique biodiversity. In the Mediterranean almost all fishermen fish for waste, most of which (more than 70%) are made up of plastic. The presence of plastic in the stomach has been found in all fish species analysed. On average two out of ten fish ingest from one to five microplastics and we with them, of course. The bill saves the sea, as already mentioned, will allow the fishermen to bring to the ground the plastic recovered with the nets, currently thrown back into the sea in order not to commit the crime of illicit transport of waste; although I hope, as some colleagues have said before, not to hear them define, as in the past, sweepers of the sea, but operators who carry out a civil service for all of us. [[Applause]] The text, then, deals with desalators, education and cleanliness campaigns, microfibre pollution, ocean posidonia, much more. The draft law saves the sea also contains rules aimed at encouraging the voluntary collection of waste both at sea and in inland waters, including by bodies and associations, and rules aimed at encouraging the circular economy, i.e. recycling of recovered materials. In this regard I would like to stress an important commitment of Forza Italia and a great victory, in our opinion, in the name of all the beaches and citizens of coastal cities. [[Applause]] And I look at my colleague Mallegni, who has always been a supporter of this possibility, together with my colleague Gasparri and Anna Maria Bernini, first of all, who is our leader. [[Applause]] This move will save hundreds of millions that weighed in the pockets of citizens. I am referring to the disposal of algae on the beaches. Article 5, in fact, regulates the management of plant biomass, allowing the possibility of maintaining on site or transport in waste management plants or the re-entry into the natural environment also through the re-floating at sea or the transfer to the retrodunal area, after screening aimed at the separation of the sand from the organic material, with the aim of recovery for the re-shedding of the beach; therefore a perfect circle. The bill also provides for provisions to avoid the spread in the aquatic environment of microfibres from washing synthetic fabrics and others in the field of environmental education in schools. This is the most important thing. Speaking of education, I warmly thank the many associations and, in particular, the living Sea for the constant work of awareness that has finally led us to close this norm today, starting from the actions against the hateful butts, negligently launched into the sea with the famous gesture or abandoned lit in the sand or turned off and set in the rocks. We all know that the amount of waste is so large that the oceans have formed, due to currents, areas of thickening of waste that create real islands that, if they are heavier, tend to settle on the bottom, with consequences easily imaginable on marine fauna and flora. At this point I cannot help but stigmatize the non-homogeneous behavior without which no national law can have the right response. The same applies to non-uniform countries. There is no escape from anyone, and it is clear to everyone that Europe is the continent that is working hard to combat climate change and to implement concrete actions, but without reciprocity of the rules and without shared commitments we will not succeed in achieving concrete results until China, India and Russia continue to call themselves out literally. Don't give a shit. . . [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] It'll be like pounding water in a mortar. Now, then, the commitment must be two-faced. Precisely because of the deep love we have for the Mare Nostrum and being ready to find resources within the PNRR and in the budget law, I announce the favorable vote of Forza Italia. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-376.ana.u34	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-376.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-376.ana.u36	BRIZIERELLI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to clear the field immediately, given what I shall say next. The vote of the League for the measure will be favorable, convinced and aware. He is convinced despite the fact that the Lega Group abstained in the Chamber: he believed that the text could be improved. These are things that are often said but that are not always done; instead, we did not subtract ourselves; we took part in the amending process. We have worked side by side with our colleagues in the Environment Commission and many amendments have been common. That is why I would like to thank the President, all the other political forces and the rapporteur, because, apart from the many clashes that are taking place in the Commission, because sensitivity is never the same, this was one of the measures that saw an important sharing and cohesion. It has seen Parliament do its part. We are faced with a text that does not arrive in second reading armored: we have improved it and will return to the House. We did something important, but symbolic. I say this because both the rapporteur and Mr Cucca have provided some of the data. I speak of partiality because in the dossier that the Senate has made available to us, always very rich of information in order to understand the scope of the measures, a fundamental fact is missing. I'm referring to scope. Do you know how much weight all the plastic that ends up at sea, not from Italy, but from the European continent? It weighs 0.28 percent of the total. [[Applause]] We would not even be taken into account in the statistical error. There are some parties that sit in Parliament today and that do not know whether or not they exist because the statistical error is at 2%; we are at 0.28%. Everyone has focused on the fact that 85% of the waste at sea is made up of plastic, but no one has said that 0.28% of the entire European continent is 3,900 tonnes. We are doing all this in Italy, without considering that of the first 120 rivers that pollute - this is the third time I say so in this House and I will never tire of repeating it - 103 are in Asia, eight are in Africa, eight are in Central America and in South America and only one, the Danube, in Europe. This does not detract from the value and symbolic scope of what we are doing, from the awareness campaigns, from the fact that the citizens and pupils of the schools will participate in other competitions and will win other prizes, but a conscious vote means to have the confidence of what we are voting and what the scope of it is. [[Applause]] I think we have done something good more than for the sea or the oceans in the broadest sense for our fishermen, for our ports, for the citizens and for a category that has not been considered, that is for all our tour operators, the beaches and those who run activities. This is because maybe even a few grams or a few hects of plastic, if we see them beached to deface a panorama or a beach, are still a problem that goes far beyond their weight and the percentage they represent. It is, therefore, certainly a good measure for our beaches and for our sea, but not for those seas or for those gigantic islands that shout revenge and represent a shame on a planetary scale. You can be sure, in fact, that even if we had not replaced the shoppers - valid measure - with biodegradable bags thrown into the Italian seas, there would still have arrived many plastic bags in the Ocean to enlarge that island as big as entire nations. That's what we have to tell ourselves. It is something good, I do not mean irrelevant, but that certainly does not weigh decisively on everything that has been done. This could give rise to two very dangerous misunderstandings: on the one hand the conviction that we have already done everything we could and that we have nothing else to do, on the other the demonization - but this is not the only measure to do so, because it is also the one of the plastic free campaign - a product and a material like plastic that in itself is not negative even for the environment. We should provide not the numbers, but the concrete information and data, for example, on how much more it would pollute a car if we removed the 250 kilos of plastic in there and replaced it with other materials: it would pollute more because it would need more fuel. [[Applause]] How much more food would be wasted if plastic were eliminated on a planetary scale from the containers, from the trays for certain products? How much would the medicine go back if we removed plastic from some of the tools and materials that in medicine made the difference in general and in particular during the Covid emergency? Of course, if citizens are rude and the institutions are not ready and millions of masks are thrown out in a non-compliant way, it is a problem, but it does not depend on material, but on education and - I add - also on the preparation, for example, of local authorities and networks, and this obviously applies not only to plastic, but also to many other products. If there are entire regions of Italy that do not have ecological islands, that do not have collection centres, if there are municipal administrations that are unable to offer their citizens the opportunity to collect, and this applies especially to WEEE, we focus on plastic, but it is not that if glass, television sets, refrigerators or car tires end up at sea they do less damage. We certainly don't magically solve the problem with a measure like this. It certainly was no reason not to do so, but I just want to give some thought, to provide information to my colleagues, but I am sure that many will be aware of it. A couple of years ago the National Geographic devoted an article to fishermen's cooperatives in the state of Kerala in India that every morning - 5,000 fishermen, at the time - left and did not curse anymore when they fished waste, especially in plastic, because they were part of a pilot project for which they were paid to recover plastic at sea and become fishermen of garbage, which is not an offense. I've heard these sea sweepers call them, but I don't think that's the right definition. I believe that a project like this will eventually, in some cases, be a role such as the one they are playing. Well, it is a small project, which is also referred to at European level by Sweden and Great Britain and by some associations, these positive ones. In fact, there are many NGOs, there are not only those that move in certain areas that are certainly more profitable, but there are others that perhaps make available the technology, the commitment and the volunteers to do something good. It is a case that those fishermen who started to look - and think about it - not at the Minister of the Environment of their State, but at the Minister of Tourism. This is to say that the problem concerns the environment, but also concerns the protection of natural beauty and of the planet also in tourist function. So why do we never hear about projects in so many areas and directions in international cooperation, perhaps encouraging and encouraging collaboration between our companies and what certain organizations are able to do and put in place? We should ensure that this becomes an opportunity for profit, business and economic growth and development in research for our companies and European companies, in order to provide the necessary support to ensure that those islands in the middle of the ocean are no longer taken as a negative example. We must begin not to reduce the plastic that enlarges them, but to attack it and clean the sea, perhaps taking into account, also in this case at international level since there are no boundaries, the fact that environment and economy can go hand in hand and that research, as well as development and enterprise can be an opportunity for growth worldwide. Italy, which has often been at the forefront in many areas, could also be at the forefront in this field. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-376.ana.u37	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-376.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-376.ana.u39	FOURTH (M5S). Mr President, bulimic man has built so much, too much, and has done so largely with linear production and consumption models, impoverishing natural resources, generating waste and polluting all environmental matrixes. What man has built so far exceeds the entire planetary biomass. At the beginning of the twentieth century the building was worth 3% of the biomass of the earth; in 2020 we exceeded 100 percent, with over 1,000 billion tons. The mass of plastic alone is greater than that of all existing animals. Even large and useful inventions become harmful to bad economic choices. This is the case with plastic. The Italian Giulio Natta won the Nobel Prize in Chemistry for the invention of isotactic polypropylene in 1963. Moplen, unmistakable, light and resistant, advertised in the Carosello by the legendary Gino Bramieri, became one of the symbols of the economic boom of the 1960s. Today the dispersion of plastic in the environment is one of the most disturbing planetary problems. Despite mature and profitable plastic recycling technologies, the OECD estimates that only 15 percent are recycled, 25 percent burned in incinerators and 60 percent buried in landfills. Of the 310 million tons produced each year, 8 million wind up at sea (one truck per minute) and as many as 230,000 in the Mediterranean. Italy, with its 34,000 tons, holds the second place as the polluter nation of the Mare Nostrum " plasticum." Here we accumulate 13,000 tons of microplastics a year. This compromises a vital planetary resource. The estimated market for marine and coastal industries resources is worth $3 trillion a year, representing 5% of global GDP, and 3 trillion people depend on the oceans as a primary resource of protein. However, 40 percent of the sea is heavily influenced by human activities. Plastic floats, is suspended and lies on the seabed; it causes the death of millions of animals and impoverishes the ecosystem and biodiversity. It is in the fish that we eat, in the salt and in the air that we breathe. At this rate, in 2050 the sea will contain more plastic than fish. The 5 Star Movimento is valiantly opposing such vicious pollution. [[Applause]] We're not gonna see this absurd environmental suicide go unarmed. Environmental protection is in our DNA. In Parliament and the government with our brave paladin, Ilaria Fontana, we are on the battle front against all the existing pollution. We have already done our utmost to ban plastic shops and cotton, as well as cosmetics with microplastics. A tax credit of 36% was issued for differentiated and biodegradable plastic packaging. In the climate decree, bulk and plug products were encouraged, but that is not enough: other measures are needed. It was also necessary to put an end to the intolerable and unheard-of practice of throwing unwittingly caught waste back into the sea, because of the serious sanctions when brought to the ground. We needed a law that could definitely intervene to control the pollution of the sea and clean up it. This is how the bill saves the sea, strongly wanted by the former minister of the environment Sergio Costa, to which all our recognition goes. [[Applause]] With this law we set ourselves the objective of restoring the marine ecosystem, promoting the circular economy and raising awareness of the community in order to prevent the abandonment of waste in our waters. The definitions of accidentally caught waste and voluntarily collected waste are introduced (voluntarily collected not only during specific cleaning campaigns, but, by virtue of my amendment, also through fixed capture systems, appropriately positioned so that they do not interfere with the ecosystem functions of water bodies). This can also be very useful in avoiding the accumulation of waste at points with energy loss of the water runoff, which is known to cause flooding. So it's a means of prevention against hydrogeological failure. In this respect, thanks to another amendment, the Mite will have to launch a three-year experimental campaign, funded with EUR 6 million, for the recovery of floating waste in rivers, always compatible with the hydraulic requirements for the protection of ecosystems. It is established that accidentally caught waste is equivalent to that of vessels and delivered separately, after weighing and free of charge to the port reception facility. This activity does not require registration in the National Register of Environmental Managers. It is then handed down to a decree of the Mipaaf, in agreement with the Mite, also the identification of rewards measures to encourage the collection of waste at sea. Cleaning campaigns may also be launched at the initiative of municipalities, bodies managing protected areas, environmental and category associations and other entities identified by the competent authorities. With a view to promoting the circular economy, in order to promote the recycling of plastics and materials incompatible with the marine system, the Mite will have to establish criteria and methods by which those accidentally caught and voluntarily collected cease to be classified as waste, within six months of the adoption of the law. Rules are laid down for the management of beached plant biomass in order to re-enter the natural environment. Appropriate forms of publicity are also provided for the delivery of waste to fishermen and operators in the sector. In schools - another very important measure - awareness-raising activities will be promoted on the conservation of the environment, the sea and inland waters, as well as on the correct practices of waste delivery and recovery and reuse of goods. Provisions are laid down for the labelling of materials which release microfibres, which are particularly harmful when they come from tissue washing. In order to protect the marine and coastal environment, the preventive environmental impact assessment for desalination plants is introduced. An interministerial table is then established at the Mite in order to coordinate the action to combat marine pollution, to optimize the action of fishermen and to monitor the progress of the recovery of waste. The same Mite, then, will have to report every year to the Chambers the state of implementation of the law saves the sea. In essence, the law saves the sea is an effective and concrete tool for the recovery of plastic at sea, but also to prevent its arrival. It was awaiting the examination of the Assembly since mid-July, so much so that Marevivo, Assonave, Assoporti, Confindustria nauticala, Confitarma, Federpesca, Lega Navale and Lega Vela in a video message strongly ask Parliament for the immediate approval of the law saves the sea. Thanks to the commitment of the Movimento 5 Stars and the fruitful intercourse with the Mite, through the undersecretary Ilaria Fontana, which I thank for the sensitivity and tenacity [[Applause]] , the provision finally arrives in port. Today the Movimento 5 Stars line up with the real needs of the people, which is what always does, from the first moment, for the protection of the environment, for life and for that necessary and indifferent intergenerational pact that presupposes an eco-sustainable development. Therefore, with determination, conviction and satisfaction, the 5 Star Movimento votes to save the sea. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-376.ana.u40	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of bill No 1571, in the amended text as a result of the amendments introduced by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Consequently, the draft law no. 674 and 1503.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-376.ana.u41	He asked the President of the First Commission, Senator Parrini, to speak in order to report on draft law No 2394. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-376.ana.u42	Mr President, during this afternoon's sitting the Commission started examining the remaining amendments. We have not yet been able to finish, but I think we can do so by this evening. I therefore ask for some more time.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-376.ana.u43	We note this, Mr Parrini.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-376.ana.u44	[[Brusio.]] I invite the Senators of the Movimento 5 Star Group to let the session proceed with order.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-376.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-376.ana.u46	I'll do it.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-376.ana.u47	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, on 9 November 1989 the Berlin Wall fell, built in 1961, at night, by East Communist Germany, the so-called German Democratic Republic, which had absolutely nothing democratic. It was built to prevent the Germans from fleeing to West Germany, to freedom and democracy: a wound that for thirty-three years was the symbol of the division of Europe and the oppression of Stalinist totalitarianism over our brothers from Eastern Europe, unfortunate because, instead of being liberated at the end of the Second World War, they fell under the dominion of an even fiercer dictatorship, against which they had fought. [[Applause]] Hundreds were the dead in an attempt to pass through that wall, thousands of divided families and millions of Germans who for thirty-three years had to suffer the deprivation of freedom, of thought, of expression and of movement: in short, of every form of freedom. Do you know what the Communist government called that wall? He called it antifaschisticcher Schutzwall, that is, anti-fascist protection wall. [[Applause]] Nothing new, ladies and gentlemen, in the propaganda and instrumental use of antifascism as an improper weapon of legitimization of communism. After decades, we are still at the antifaschisticcher Schutzwall in the head of too many exponents, heirs of communism, also in the democratic Italian Republic. In fact, Social Fascists were Nenni, Saragat and even Craxi and Fascists were Hungarian patriots who in 1956 sacrificed themselves for freedom and who today Brothers of Italy celebrated with an important conference in the hall Nassirya and with an exhibition that was inaugurated in these minutes at the National Alliance Foundation. Here, ladies and gentlemen, it is right to remember who fought and who sacrificed himself for freedom and it is right to remember that democracy and freedom cannot have adjectives and qualifications: either you believe in these values or, otherwise, you only make sterile propaganda. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-376.ana.u48	Thank you, Senator Balboni, for your passionate intervention.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-376.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-376.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-376.ana.u51	ROJC (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today thirty-two years have passed since a historic moment that has changed the course of Europe and of the whole Western world. Remembering today the fall of the Berlin Wall means placing the history of the short century at the center of our reflection, which - as Hobsbawm says - began in 1914 and ended, precisely, in 1989, a century dramatically proud of itself and its horrors. My land, the city of Gorizia in particular, has been torn apart by a wire mesh that has divided what has remained united for centuries and centuries. Those who know history know that a boundary can be understood as something definitive, a finis terrae, and that its fall can call into question points of view, ideologies and values, but it can also represent the future. Winston Churchill had to say that there are places and territories that have more history than they can bear; it was so for us, along the eastern border; it was so for Gorizia. Today, thanks to the thought, strength and will of personalities of great human and political importance - among which I would like to mention President Sergio Mattarella and President Borut Pahor - Gorizia and Nova Gorica have become an example for the future, with the allocation of European Capital of Culture for 2025. This is a sign for the future and for young people, a projection towards new horizons. 18.20 (ROJC follow). The story is a great teacher: it was for Gorizia, it was for Germany and it was for the symbol that the Berlin Wall represented. As John Fitzgerald Kennedy said in 1963 - and as we should all be convinced - "Wir sind Berliner ", recalling the new walls that grow elsewhere, in an attempt to stem the flow of men, ideas and values that no wall can bring to silence. Ich bin einer Berlinerin. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-376.ana.u52	Thank you, Senator Rojc, for reminding us of the basics of the new Europe, following the Second World War, which is based on the principles of democracy, the Constitution and freedom.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-376.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-376.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-376.ana.u55	AIMI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, even by the Forza Italia Group, as it has been for other groups, it is necessary to speak on this extremely important occasion. Celebrated at the beginning, November 11, 1989 was an exciting date. I remember watching those moments on television, but those were the days when we were young and many friends left in the car and went to see what was happening. It was the end of the wall of shame and was above all the end of a division, that between the two Germanies, the division of Europe: on the one hand, the free world, the Western world; on the other, the world oppressed by tyranny, the communist world. They were paid a very high price and a high human cost: 138 dead, largely due to the Vopos, who, lurking on the watchtowers, shot those who wanted to flee to freedom. The first person to die was a woman of a certain age who, trying to escape, even threw herself out of the window. I would like to recall in particular a figure, that of Jörg Hartmann, who on April 14, 1966, at the age of ten, tried to escape and was killed by a sniper. Well, then there was a tragedy: that wall 3.60 meters high and 154 kilometers long was a ghostly thing, as was life in that world. Today we can celebrate freedom and we can celebrate that moment: the Berlusconi Government - I would like to remind you - with the support of all the center-right in 2005 established this day as the Day of Freedom and we want to continue to honor it. It is true: communism then brought so many lies, so much so that they had told that it was an anti-fascist barrier. It was not so: no one wanted to go to the other side, we never saw anyone try to cross that wall; they wanted to find freedom. There is a wall and a wall, I want to say it: there are walls that are born to prevent you from arriving without documents or without any authorization, in a clandestine way, and there are others that instead prevent your people from fleeing. These are obviously very different situations. Today we wanted to honour this anniversary in this House, but I am sorry that in schools of every order and grade there has not been the same interest and above all the same remembrance of an opportunity that should instead be treated and considered for the high spiritual and human value it has. I conclude by thanking the architects of that liberation, who were first of all John Paul II and Ronald Reagan, but also Mikhail Gorbačëv. Thank you, Mr President: let us remember next year that we are also in charge of schools to remember this very important day. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-376.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-376.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-376.ana.u58	ABATE (Mixed). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to bring to the attention of the House and everyone the question of the revision of the trade agreement between the European Union and the States of the Community for the development of South Africa in the field of citrus growing. Five years later, this Treaty is being re-launched in Brussels. The citrus crisis in the European countries, first and foremost in Italy, has unfortunately intensified since the European Union signed the Economic Partnership Agreement with these South African States in 2016. As I pointed out in the resolution of the deal I asked for in the Agriculture Commission, which deals precisely with the measures to resolve the serious citrus crisis, in the second place of the suppliers of Italy we find South Africa, which, thanks to the trade agreements with the European Union, is increasing the shipments of its citrus fruits to Europe and Italy. Ismea's data speak for itself, recording a yield worth 37 million tonnes of product, amounting to 32 million euros. These are the data available for the 2019-2020 marketing year. South Africa has also recently increased its production potential and extended the production period. This puts the entire European citrus market at serious risk. Then there is another problem, which is no less serious. Since the signing of the agreement, numerous parasites have been detected in citrus fruits, which have arrived with imports from South Africa. The orange sector is very concerned about the arrival of citrus fruits hiding the so-called pharynous cochineal, while the lemon sector fears the fungus that causes the black spot of citrus fruits, the citrus black spot: these parasites could enter the continent from South Africa and hit entire European production areas, destroying entire crops. It seems clear that African countries do not offer guarantees to European countries from the point of view of the plant health consequences. While European companies must respect the demanding Community production model by supporting very high costs, the commercial conditions for the countries of South Africa are very advantageous, even in the current price war, which penalizes Italian companies. In conclusion, I have alerted our Ministry, because in Spain, through the people of the Ministers of Agriculture and Trade and Production, they have come to the streets and will go to Europe to try to make the conditions of the agreements less burdensome. I have also written a letter to Mr Patuanelli, but unfortunately I did not have any reply and there is no activity in this regard. Then I wonder where our ministers, trade associations and the government that protects Made in Italy are. I hope, given that there is still time, that the institutional entities that I have appointed will not only give an answer to me, because they may not even give it to me, but that they will go to Europe to protect our productions and our made in Italy, establishing at least bans on the entry of citrus fruits from non-European countries, citrus fruits that should be stopped when our production begins. I hope that this will happen, given that we are still in time, and the Minister for Agriculture has a duty... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-376.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-376.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-376.ana.u61	FOURTH (M5S). Mr President, celebrated every 10 November, the World Science Day for Peace and Development, proclaimed by UNESCO in 2001, underlines the significant role of science in society. This is an opportunity to show the general public the relevance of science in our lives and to involve them in discussions on emerging scientific issues. The initiative also brings a unique perspective to the global search for peace and development. On this day are called to gather the most significant experiences, with the aim of defining integrated strategies, in which scientific progress is at the service of the construction of peace and of a better future for the planet and its inhabitants. The aim of the day is to strengthen public awareness of the role of science for sustainable peaceful societies, promote solidarity for a science shared among nations, renew commitment to the use of science for the benefit of society and draw attention to the challenges faced by science to increase support for scientific effort. This year's theme is to build communities that adapt to the climate. With climate change, which is becoming a serious threat to the lives of billions of people and the planet, this year's celebration highlights the importance of climate adaptation, highlighting some key scientific aspects and possible solutions provided by science, technology and innovation to some of the major global challenges that society is facing today. In conclusion, these days in Glasgow are discussing the fate of the planet. Just as science can find solutions for adapting to climate change, it can also find solutions for combating climate change: just support it, with confidence. The necessary policies must be put in place to stop environmental suicide. Blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah An intergenerational pact for sustainable development, signed with blood, is now indisputable. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-376.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-376.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-376.ana.u64	THE ABBATE (M5S). Mr President, on this day when we finally adopted the bill saves the sea, which is very important for us, by taking action towards the circular economy, I want to talk to you about my territory, Puglia, always in environmental matters. I would like to tell you the story of the Martucci dump, which is very much discussed, on which I have also tabled a couple of questions over the years. Unfortunately, according to the regional waste plan, there is a need to have a landfill and everyone is clearly looking at Martucci. So imagine the concern of citizens and mayors. I am here to repeat that, like Movimento 5 Stars, since it is my territory, we are close to the mayors of Mola, Conversano and Rutigliano, also because some analyses have already been done: the ARPA carried them out, to understand if the environmental matrixes are really polluted. In fact, there is the problem of the leachate which, apparently, is not eliminated and therefore could have reached the layer as well. These things need to be ascertained. The municipalities themselves started an additional investigation, in addition to that of the ARPA, and we wait for the results on 23 November. I want to say that we must make the best choice for the environment and for the health of citizens: we are there, we are close to the first citizens. When the data is available, we will be able to understand what is best to do, because - let us bear in mind - even if we go on with the circular economy and with everything we have said, 10% of the waste - alas - must go to landfill. This need exists and, because of the NIMBY effect, who will want a landfill in their territory? It is therefore important to understand if there is really a danger for citizens: this must be done. Surely we must secure the territory and the health of the citizens all: we are there, we will evaluate these data that will be well developed on 23 November and we will proceed, perhaps alongside them, to carry out always the history of Martucci landfill. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-376.ana.u65	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-11-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-376.ana.u66	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 10 November, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.34.
