ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.36 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Tosato, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 8 April. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u4	I communicate that on 8 April 2021 the following draft law was transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies: "Conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No 22 of 1 March 2021 on urgent provisions on the reorganization of the powers of the Ministries" (2172).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u5	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00289 by Senator Binetti and other senators and 1-00288 by Senator Boldrini and other senators on the adoption of a new National Oncology Plan. I note that the agenda for the G1 meeting was also presented by Senators Binetti, Boldrini, Castellone, Pisani Giuseppe, Pirro, Fregolent, Cantù, Zaffini, Parente, Siclari, Iori, Richetti and others, whose text is being distributed. [[Brusio.]] I call Senator Binetti to explain motion No 289, provided that colleagues allow her to do so because under these conditions it is not possible to begin.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u6	Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, this period, from the point of view of the history of medicine, will pass to the chronicles as the moment when we were able to introduce a new classification: between patients Covid and others. I must say that this semantic reductionism has, however, resulted in very serious consequences in what is the life of many patients of the most diverse types. Today, in this House, we will focus on cancer patients for a very simple reason, because the National Oncology Plan, like many other national plans - I would like to stress - has long expired, and there has been no attention and vigilance that would have required it to be updated in its specific structure as a National Oncology Plan, but also in its concrete dimension as a National Oncology Plan in pandemic times. In my opinion, these are structural errors whose highest price will be paid by patients. Our motion in some way retraces these stages, which are the typical ones for which it has been possible over the years to allow all oncology to make progress as a giant. Concretely, there are also many centres of oncology of absolute excellence in Italy. Oncology was able to make progress for very clear reasons: the first is that we were able to focus on early screenings that allowed diagnosis when the tumor was still at its first jokes. Well, what happened at this time is that there was a screening stop that slowed down if not the diagnosis, at least the suspicion of the diagnosis. Certainly, after a first diagnosis emerged from the screening, we move to a diagnostic study that requires more sophisticated tools, imaging methods, laboratory tools, much more complex investigations that allow us to get to answer not only the question if the tumor is there, but also the more specific question of which tumor is it. There is no doubt, in fact, that the third step - the one concerning therapy - is closely linked to the nature of the tumor that we have identified. Of all this, in this long year of lockdown, we can say that there has been very little and the consequences of all this will pay you in time, because the cases that we have not diagnosed today will explode in a few days. We may have won the battle of vaccines, which we hope, but we will have lost the battle on these other fronts. Requesting a new National Oncology Plan with insistence and energy means contextualizing it in a situation of great uncertainty, in which patients do not like to go to hospital, are not received in the emergency room and the files to do an examination have expanded to an extent, also because of safety and precaution measures. I would like to stress one thing: at this moment, the most accentuated are those that concern the National Health System, that is, the public health that boasts of Italian medicine. Therefore, the patient with greater economic availability could refer to private structures, in which to do the necessary insights, but this has converted into an additional factor of discrimination between those who can and who cannot, while we consider health an equal good for all, which must be defended in the same way for all. I quickly start to conclude, reaffirming that we must start from all the steps we have listed, we must resume screening and differential diagnostics, very sophisticated and advanced, we must relaunch the innovative therapies, on which we have invested, the famous 500 million euros, and on which we must invest (I think for example of monoclonal therapies). It is then necessary to return to these patients that dimension of rehabilitation phase, which returns them to integrum, that is to their normal life. All of this has failed, and we are also responsible for this. We have to put a brake on this and we have to start again in the best possible way. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u7	I call Senator Boldrini to explain motion 288.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have an important opportunity today. I will therefore explain the motion I signed earlier, which I tabled in November last year, when we knew that the issue of patients not primarily affected by Covid would unfortunately be left behind. Patients with cancer-related problems are those who, as opposed to all others, have very important problems, which are also those of the temporality of taking charge. Unfortunately, the deaths recorded in Italy during the pandemic by Covid-19 have seen among the most frequent cases the diagnosis of cancer, compared to all the others. That is why both myself and Mrs Binetti have tabled two motions, and I would like to thank her for the cooperation we have achieved in the Commission in dealing with this issue. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u9	Colleagues, it's complicated to be able to listen to the speeches. I am looking at a side of the hemicycle, which is the noisy one at the moment, but my invitation is addressed to everyone, because colleagues from all groups will have to intervene and, in an equal way, you cannot hear the speaker. So I would ask colleagues to lower the volume of the voice and remind them that it is not mandatory to be present. I apologize, Senator Boldrini, for interrupting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u10	Mr President, thank you. As I said, we have also shared the passages on this subject in the Commission, by approving a joint agenda for all members - I am very happy about that, because we are always able to achieve uniformity of intentions on these issues - precisely because we are aware that this is a very important issue. The move to this House today with the motion - which I shall withdraw to give a much more important starting point, given the fact that we have reached an agreement with a unitary agenda for which Mrs Binetti will speak - is important because it strengthens Parliament's intentions towards the Government. In fact, we have also realized in this emergency that, especially for cancer patients, there is still a serious and unacceptable territorial inequality and therefore the responsibility of patients, even in this case, is unfortunately not homogeneous. This is why today we are going to discuss such an important issue: the lack of integration, which unfortunately we realize, between hospital and territory is still one of the largest organisational deficits of the National Health Service. I say this because there needs to be a single national plan; Europe too is preparing a single cancer plan. Therefore, putting this issue to the attention of our debate today is very important, so professionals can have important references and guidelines. We know that the tools for implementing the guidelines are essential and fundamental. The availability of tools, including guidelines, is important because it allows patients to be taken care of, taking initiatives that can enhance oncology care, especially home care. We know that during the Covid emergency home care has been penalized, often unfortunately also due to lack of staff, and we also pay attention to this fact. At the same time, we need to implement other protocols that can also provide important help to our professionals. I think it is no less important, as I always stress, to take initiatives to ensure psychological support, as provided for in the core levels of care (LEA) especially for cancer patients. The issue that we are dealing with today in a unified way is fundamental because we strengthen even more the system for professionals who need it, but above all for our patients who are waiting for special uniform indications to be made throughout the national territory. I therefore declare from now on that I shall withdraw my motion to bring it into a unitary agenda. I would like to thank all my colleagues who wanted to work together on the basis of the two motions that have been tabled. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u11	I call Senator Binetti to explain the G1 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u12	Mr President, we wanted the commitments contained in our motions to converge into a single instrument so that it could have the strength to influence at government level. We hope that this long work done between us to seek the unified point of view, through the confrontation that there has been, weighing the responsibility that to each of the commitments is tied so that a real right is guaranteed by the patients... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u13	I apologize, Senator Binetti; colleagues, the noise comes from the very side of the hemicycle from which the senator is trying to illustrate the agenda. I ask you to move away, to move and to discuss elsewhere because that is the only one from which the buzz comes that covers the senator's words.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u14	Mr President, I want to start from this point. We are well aware that an agenda is a weak regulatory instrument, but its strength is closely linked to the compactness of the entire Commission that has signed it and I would also say, as we hope, the entire Senate House that will vote for it. The strength of the document lies in the fact that the whole Senate takes the side of cancer patients, resumes and places in pole position the right to care, first the right to diagnosis, then the right to be integrated in a highly personalized project, which also responds to the evolution of science and technology. But the strength of the entire Senate cannot justify any circumvention of responsibility. To give an example, Madam President, and to tell colleagues, one of the steps is that we are calling for the full implementation of a law that we passed two years ago. On 20 April 2019 the law governing and setting up the national network of cancer registers came into force; well, that law is still unimplemented and today it could be very valuable to reorient the work, also in the direction suggested by my colleague Boldrini, that is to reduce discrimination at national level: to offer all patients the same rights, the same access to diagnosis, the same access to therapy and the same access to social rehabilitation. A national plan is crucial: two years ago Parliament passed a law that is not operational. The agenda presented today is intended to "scratch" this anonymity of requests which, even if approved, fall into empty sacks. If, as we hope, the act of address will receive a favourable opinion, we are all engaged and the entire Commission, in the course of what remains of this legislature, will fight for each of these commitments that we have submitted to the Government to have regulatory force first of all for the Ministry, for the Government and for everyone. We have done our part, we have overcome our differences of opinion, our personal tastes, the priorities with which one could score one thing and the other; we have decided that truly united we could win this battle. It is a challenge that we take as an extraordinary value, to guarantee the rights of patients, especially today of cancer patients. Mr President, representatives of the Government, I believe, however, that we all carry on our skin the stigma of cancer, either because in many cases it has affected ourselves or a loved one, or because it has affected or might affect someone who is very close to us. These sick people look us in the eye and ask us with what courage we can forget them, what many times has been dubbed the disease of the century. Today oncology represents a mine of scientific information, of possibilities for experimentation. I would like to say something that I think will be quite interesting even after, when we discuss the motion on vaccines. The miracle - because such was defined - of the vaccine, concretely those of Pfizer and Moderna, was possible because that group of scholars was studying mechanisms of action and therapeutics that concerned tumors; they were studying monoclonal therapies, monoclonal antibodies and had the intuition to apply to the virus a mechanism of study that until then had been dedicated to the tumor. Science has this translational power that guarantees everyone that the right to health is not just a simple word, but is a concrete fact that truly commits us all to guarantee an extraordinary good, an extraordinary right. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u15	Senator Binetti, I'm asking if you intend to withdraw your motion, too.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u16	Mr President, you were on the premise. I'm sorry I didn't say that. I withdraw the motion because the strength of the unit of the agenda exceeds any plausibility of the individual motions.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u17	It was also implicit in his remarks. I note that, in connection with the presentation of the G1 unitary agenda, motions Nos 1 and 2 have been withdrawn. 289 and 288. Senator Iori is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this year and a half many people have had to deal with the effects of the pandemic on the health system, with delayed surgeries, scanned examinations and specialist visits, hospital departments that have not been able to cope with normal daily activity. It is a sort of epidemic in the epidemic, which involved thousands of patients who have contracted cancers, cancer diseases precisely in the most dramatic year that health has had to face. Recent data released by Agenas indicate the size of this drama. During the pandemic, 52 million specialist visits and diagnostic performances were lost, so this is a decrease of 30 percent. In Italy, during this last year and a half, 22 percent fewer breast cancer interventions have been performed, 24 percent fewer prostate cancer interventions and 32 percent fewer colon cancer. In Lombardy, one of the most affected regions, but also one of the regions that has the best centers for tumors, the numbers are even more serious and this makes you think. The Covid epidemic has put a strain on the response and resilience of health systems at regional level, putting at risk the work of cancer prevention and control, which is the first tool we have at our disposal to combat them. In this context, inequalities have widened, creating an ever deeper groove between the wealthy or with a higher level of education, who have been able to resort to private health, and the most fragile, who have not been able to access public screening pathways. This is a serious matter, and we will have to deal with it, because it is a vulnus that I hope will be healed with the new recovery set out in the vaccination plan. The first objective, therefore, is to put in place a strategy to quickly restore at least the level of care for cancer patients guaranteed before the pandemic, because the Covid arrived as a tsunami on a system that already showed structural deficiencies and delays in the technological adaptation of the National Health Service in the oncology field. A system in which there are huge territorial differences, differences that the epidemic has only widened. Let us think, for example, of telemedicine, which will be one of the keys to the health of the future, the development of which is linked to the digitisation of services and the dissemination of innovation. In fact, telemedicine offers the figure of great territorial variability also within the regional health service. In the coming months, therefore, we will have to make the greatest effort to restore hope to the vulnerable, and in particular to cancer patients, we will have to act quickly, to act immediately. We must therefore pursue this joint commitment, namely to improve the care of cancer patients through a new National Plan that includes the strengthening of territorial networks, the promotion of screening, the strengthening of home care, the modernisation of the instrumental and technological endowment for diagnostic screening, for surgical activities, for radiotherapy; the strengthening of digital health, investments in research for psychological support to cancer patients, as foreseen by the LEA. Let us not forget that these patients and their families, as well as health care, need constant emotional support, which also contains the pain of the soul and the fragility of having to face a disease that puts life at risk and provides painful therapies from all points of view. We therefore need to invest in territorial assistance, because only a Community idea of health will ensure that all people are able to deal with cancer with pathways that take into account their health needs. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u19	Senator Marin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u20	Mr President, we do not understand why concerns and virtues have only exploded after a pandemic that does not forgive. Today we are here to discuss the motion on the adoption of a new oncology plan, which expired in 2016, published in 2013 and elaborated at least five years earlier: it is paradoxical. The same happened for the pandemic plan and who knows how many other serious pathologies. Yet, cancer patients must be able to benefit from every possible tool, as well as patients with other diseases. Now we are talking about initiatives which should have been implemented and elaborated before the expiry date and not, as in this case, five years later. Now it is even discovered that cancer patients and patients with other very serious chronicities, in addition to the problem of survival, also have two other serious problems: the economic one - and I do not even want to think that there is anyone who has doubts about it - and the psychological one that, intuitively, begins in conjunction with the diagnosis. You know, the first thought that comes to the young mothers affected by this scourge is: if I don't succeed, who will take care of my child? I speak to you, of course, from my own experience. There is also a third problem that always seems to escape, the psychiatric one, that of auditory, visual and sensory hallucinations, because the tumor is not a protective factor for schizophrenia or other mental disorders. Psychiatric patients also suffer from cancer. So let's get out of the ideological walls and make ourselves aware of this reality, of all the derived consequences and the limits imposed. It is clear that very serious mistakes have been made. Having said that, I prefer to look to the future. We have an entire health system to be re-raised and developed in the light of technological and scientific progress, adopting and promoting new models, allocating resources to stimulate strategic initiatives that go beyond the animal model, where poor mice and other creatures have already given everything they could give. You have to change paradigm; if you do not adopt advanced high performance calculation protocols, laying the foundations for innovative and profitable research, you will continue to stumble on the same step. In the field of astrophysics - for example - in which scientists do not even have the material to manipulate and can observe only through a lens, at millions of light years, the extraordinary and creative human intelligence was already on Mars before leaving. In this sense, I will tell you with great pride that in my virtuous Region a startup created by three very young excellences has put at the service of early diagnosis its engineering science, from the technological pole to the Center of Oncology of Aviano, in the province of Pordenone, creating a software composed of algorithms able to objectively interpret ovarian tumors. In this innovative and current direction the International School of Advanced Studies in Trieste (SISSA) is moving. Magic? No: Expanding and discovering the new worlds, micro and macro, from planet to protein, requires intuition and excellent competence. I therefore hope that this motion will only be an ouverture to the knowledge that we must all have to act together, in concert and in symphony, as we can do today. Thank you for your attention, colleagues. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u21	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mautone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u22	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the fight against cancer is one of the most daring and stimulating objectives for the whole world, for Europe and for our country. Research, early diagnosis, diagnostic screening programmes, improvement of the multidisciplinary approach of high-speciality, availability and dissemination of new therapies such as those with Car-T cells, identification of appropriate structures with the presence of highly specialised staff and appropriate follow-up routes for cancer patients must be a necessity and an obligation of institutions towards citizens. The aim of the European mission with the new oncology plan is well represented by the slogan "Cancellation": possible mission, the goal of which is to save 3 million human lives by 2030. The serious global crisis that the pandemic has caused has had important and we could say dramatic repercussions on all health care, involving all the pathologies that we could call no-Covid, with particular regard to neoplastic pathology. Important economic resources no longer available, structural and personnel reorganisations, the need to convert the use and destination of entire hospital units diverted to Covid disease have resulted in and have serious negative consequences on the prevention, care and follow-up programmes of patients with other diseases, especially those with cancer. Diagnosis, intervention and delayed treatment in many cancer centers have unfortunately represented almost the routine during this terrible pandemic. The number of surgeries has been reduced, as well as - on the other hand - many chemo and radiotherapy sessions have been postponed. These statements derive from objective data that are easily recoverable and dramatically have become almost a routine in our health facilities (even in those of excellence). The incidence and weight of the serious situation that we are experiencing has upset the organization of many hospitals and their cancer centers, especially in economically weaker countries and regions, where the health situation is organizational, that structural pre-pandemic was already very poor and in which SARS-CoV-2 has literally upset their weak oncology network, whose survival, indispensable also for the subsequent follow-up of the patients followed, was often based on the thousand sacrifices and praiseworthy self-denial of the many health workers. Precisely the latter have often been transferred to dedicated Covid departments, diverting an important resource from the difficult balances existing in oncology departments. The situation is further aggravated by the fact that an important part of the available economic resources has been diverted to the pandemic health emergency, with substantial cuts in funding and reduction of beds and staff, until the closure of entire departments and their conversion. It has already been said that - as it was logical to suppose - low-income countries and regions pay the highest price for all this in terms of the quality of care and the quantity of benefits provided and, unfortunately, of human lives. The pandemic has made it more difficult to obtain quality care and care continuity not only in the field of oncology. Hence the urgent need for a new National Oncology Plan coordinated by the European Plan. It must place regional oncology networks, linked to the wider national network, at the centre of programming, with a real control and monitoring booth specifically for oncology. Domestic and territorial oncology assistance should be enhanced with a view to reducing the number of accesses to hospital facilities, as well as facilitating more careful and less traumatising follow-up, with simplified access for patients to socio-health rehabilitation that allows them to be included in social and professional life in a timely manner, without forgetting a new impetus to diagnostic screening programmes. Mr President, it will be important to give a new input and proper attention to the measures that the establishment of the national cancer register, approved by this Parliament, has made no longer differable and procrastinable. The pandemic has made everything objectively more difficult, but not impossible for this. It is therefore essential to give careful consideration to the data and to plan the new National Oncology Plan. We must bear in mind that it is not all Covid and that there is not only Covid. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u23	The debate is closed. I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask him to give his opinion on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u24	Mr President, I shall be very brief, in spite of the number of pages that have been provided to me by the Ministry. I must thank all of you for the motions, first of all, and for the agenda you have presented. Unfortunately, I find myself reliving something that is not far from the pandemic plan. Just as we had a very old pandemic plan, updated, updated, published - it's something that was expected for influence - as far as oncology is concerned - and I thank Senator Binetti - we are still in 2011, with an extension until 2016; and from 2016 to now, as far as I may have studied and sought, I didn't find anything until 2019. Or rather, there is a draft that has never completed the necessary process to become a technical guidance document aimed at reducing the burden of cancer disease. So, I can only say two things. The first is to apologize and apologize on behalf of the Ministry. Even if both I and Minister Roberto Speranza have been there for a short time, I owe an apology to each of you and to every Italian for the years of delay. It will of course be my concern to follow the new document and to ensure that it is approved without having to wait another five years. I want to hope that this will happen with a document that can be sent to the State-Regions Conference by June. If I read what has been written to me, i.e. taking into account the progress of scientific knowledge in the field of oncology and the tools made available to me, I find it hard to think that it takes five years to write a document. In such a time span of things so many change, especially in oncology - and a surgeon who deals with oncology tells you - and frankly it is not possible. I would therefore like to thank you for the motion which has been put on the agenda. I give you my word and I assure you of my commitment to see this document as soon as possible [[Applause]] As I assure you on another document - I address to Senator Castellone, the first signatory of the national network of the cancer register - that although it has become a law for many months now, we are still waiting for the implementing decrees: also on this there will be my greatest commitment. [[Applause]] I made a very simple account: we are 315 senators here and each of us in our own boarding school, every year, has at least 1,200-1,300 people affected by cancer and half of them die. And I repeat every year. So, we have to do this for them and for us too, because none of us are cancer-free, unfortunately. That's my commitment. I will not read everything that is written on the text at my disposal, because - I tell you the truth - I do not share it for the most part: I do not share all the preambles; I do not share all the words spent talking about so many things. What matters is that, by June, we must have the plan. [[Applause]] I am in favour of the G1 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u25	We shall now proceed to the vote on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u26	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u28	LANIECE (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, a global survey of cancer centres says that only 12% have managed to maintain pre-pandemic levels of treatment. In Italy, in 2020, thousands of diagnostic tests were lost and there was less than 17 percent surgery and less than 14 percent admissions. With the delays accumulated by mass screening to the breast, which is the main tool of prevention in its pathology, in these months we have unfortunately lost in the street 2,800 tumors. All this, at best, will result in more invasive and more expensive treatments and I say at best, because there is the risk that many sick people do not discover the tumor because of the close affinity between the sketch of the average patient and the subjects most exposed to the current economic crisis. The pandemic has taken away a piece of our health care and, in doing so, has exposed the most vulnerable patients and, in particular, cancer patients to danger. Hand-held, an oncology patient who gets Covid's disease doubles his health problems. It is therefore necessary to ensure a rapid return to normality throughout the national territory in terms of screening, visits, interventions and therapies. In recent months, particularly in some regions, the only possibility for post-operative visits has been offered by clinics and private facilities, and this is also because not everything has been done to develop - for example - telemedicine and territorial networks of assistance. Even today in Italy we have difficulty in introducing televisions, when in other countries we have already level 2 of distance health, i.e. the telemonitoring of the values of patients who have chronic diseases. It is obvious that telemedicine certainly cannot replace the doctor-patient relationship, but it can be of great help. On general medicine, the pandemic has shown us how strategic its real enhancement and improvement are, in the idea that health is not only passed by centres specialised in excellence; indeed, the reconsideration and revival of general medicine is of primary importance to ensure the assistance of the weakest, the elderly and those who see in the family doctor a reference point. From this point of view, however, we must reflect, once and for all, on what is today the main mission of primary care doctors in 2021. It is a profession that over the years has been overloaded with tasks that have stratified (diagnosis, treatment, prevention, vaccinations, a mountain of bureaucracy), which risk rendering less effective or even paralyzing a service that should instead be the pivot of territorial health. Similarly, the time has come to really integrate the activity of general medicine - therefore the family doctors - with hospital specialists, with the health professions - I think, in particular, to nurses - to create those truly innovative territorial health aggregations, which can become the real filter and the first effective response to the health needs of the population, especially of cancer patients. All this is even more true and necessary in inland areas, especially in mountain areas. Returning to what is required with the motion under consideration, adopting a National Oncology Plan means above all taking on the responsibility, not of the patient, but of the person. The path to healing requires time and sacrifice. In fact, most patients soon understand that it is a disease with which they live or, better, that they defeat it by not giving up completely on their own existence. Not surprisingly, more and more cancer patients are able to combine work and therapy, if the working environment and the surrounding environment allow them to combine working time and care with adequate flexibility and reasonable adjustments. I would like to say one more thing about a topic that is very dear to me, that of primary prevention, which also takes on strategic importance in the oncology field: proper nutrition, healthy lifestyles, adequate and constant physical activity help to avoid the onset of many oncology diseases. We also know how secondary prevention actions such as physical activity and constant sports training can even be as effective as chemotherapy, for example in certain breast cancers. Then it is strategic to define how to implement as effectively as possible a major prevention plan for the whole population, involving all health workers in the territory and in the hospital. Just as it is important, also because of the lowering of the average age of patients, to take care of those patients who are in precarious working conditions, because uncertainty certainly does not help the paths of healing. It is therefore important to implement welfare models capable of creating synergies between health, social security, third sector and the labour market, in order to create suitable environments for cancer patients. To conclude, it is important to do so now: the pandemic has shown limits and needs a health system to be strengthened around the principles of universality of care and proximity to all citizens, beginning with the most fragile and needy. I therefore welcome the vote of the Group for the Autonomous Left on the joint agenda that has been tabled. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u29	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u31	Parent (IV-PSI). Mr President, first of all I would like to express our gratitude in particular to Senators Binetti and Boldrini who had already proposed a text on cancer patients in 12a. The Commission, where we have adopted a very important resolution. A new National Oncology Plan, with regional networks, is proposed on this agenda. And this is even more important after the terrible epidemic that struck us and at the same time this terrible epidemic. I was very impressed by the apology of Undersecretary Sileri: when an oncology plan has not been renewed since 2016, we must apologize in front of the nation. I greatly appreciated your words, with the spirit of truth that often distinguishes the Undersecretary. We are all engaged, the Government first, to have a new National Oncology Plan, in synergy with the European plan that is being renewed. Perhaps, if since 2016 we had renewed the National Oncology Plan in the direction taken by this agenda, from the protection of home and territorial care to the development of home care and telemedicine, we would not have had the only chance to go to hospital when we are cancer patients and therefore probably would not have abandoned the care of those patients. Unfortunately, nature continues the other diseases - not only these - even those of heart disease and others that have been neglected. Of course, the biggest excuses go in this direction, since we have neglected and still neglect the patients of other pathologies compared to the terrible epidemic in progress. Telemedicine and the renewal of the technology park and instrumentation, from radiotherapy to other instruments, are important. We have to renew them, because technology goes on and there are different machines that better treat patients. It is absolutely necessary to go in that direction. There will be the recovery plan, which also has specific projects on this; I hope that the Government will pay attention to the issue, also from the point of view of the allocation of resources. We should come if not to the healing - of course we hope for many patients - at least to the chronicization of the cancer sufferer, and this is done through early diagnosis. How many screenings are we losing in this stage of epidemic not early diagnosis of a tumor? We need an early diagnosis, treatment, innovative therapies - as Senator Binetti said very well - to have more chance of survival and chronicization of the terrible disease, which was once called the disease of the century. Now, however, with this virus, we have been invaded by a terrible epidemic. Senator Laniece recalled primary prevention: with lifestyles and information, starting from schools, we can prevent the terrible disease of cancer, which, for its different types, invades different areas of our body. We must insist much more, therefore, on primary prevention and this was also taught by the terrible epidemic. We know that obesity and diabetes are problems that can aggravate even the Covid-19 and it is a teaching that we must always bear in mind. In conclusion, I announce the vote in favour, even more convinced, of the Italian Group Viva-P.S.I. on the G1 agenda, precisely because the Government, in the person of the Undersecretary, has undertaken to renew by June the Oncology Plan and to take place our unitary agenda, signed by all political forces in Parliament. The Undersecretary has also added something very important on the implementing decrees of the cancer register: in essence, we must restore a virtuous circle between an acquired law and the implementing decrees, which is then up to the Government to issue. Too many are the lengths in this country, and then we find ourselves with an epidemic of certain dimensions and we are absolutely unprepared. The unitary agenda we are debating is very important. The government's intervention is crucial and we are all committed to the rapid implementation of this agenda, which we are going to vote together. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u32	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u34	Mr Zaffini (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the speech could be summed up in a simple expression of joy at the fact that we are all in favour, the entire Senate Chamber, of such an important and fundamental measure. Allow me, however, a small political digression. Last week we shared a document that basically asked the Minister, the Ministry and all the "cucuzzaro" (i.e. the Higher Institute of Health, the Higher Health Council, Aifa and those who have more of them) to update a protocol for home therapies firm in November last year, on the Covid story-19. I said that it was absolutely paradoxical that the Senate Assembly should be replaced, in a sort of cloning, by the activity that the Minister should have had, as the summit of the pyramid, and the Ministry in its entirety, to update the protocols and adhere to a reality, which is that of the pandemic emergency, which fills every day the daily life of the Italians. Today we are basically doing something quite similar: at the initiative of my colleague, Mrs Binetti, but overall following the debate we held in the Commission, we have to urge the development of a national plan for oncology which has been firm since 2016. It is true - as has been described in the premises - that this plan will have been drawn up, knowing the times, at least in the previous months, if not in the previous years. Therefore, we are faced with a reality on the subject of cancer, which - as the representative of the Government has said perfectly - intervenes daily progress of the scientific community absolutely fundamental, and to have to operate and urge a plan that lies for six to seven years: really completely incomprehensible! In addition to all this, there are the serious circumstances that have forced the whole screening, treatment and control action to be put aside, i.e. the various follow-up mechanisms for cancer patients. To date we have suspended more than 2 million performances in follow-up; we have suspended a very important number of surgeries in the fight against oncology and especially most of the screening models that were activated on the territory. The House as a whole is very urgent about all of this today. I also want to express my gratitude to intellectual honesty - I see no other term - and to the sincerity of the representative of the Government, Mr Sileri, with whom we have used the important period of cooperation we had during his Presidency of the Health Commission. We could say that, by reason of seeing each other, he got better. In this circumstance, beyond the joke, we are very happy to be able today to be gratified by a serious attitude in front of the gravity of the circumstances and pathologies told in the act in question, which we all know: those who have not had or probably have not today, in their family, in their circle of friends, an oncology patient. Here, in the face of the seriousness of these passages it is absolutely important to put aside politics as well as the game of the parties and, simply, manifest great unity of intent. To this end, I am, first of all, absolutely available, because as an opposition we have given Mr Binetti important comments which have been accepted in the text of the agenda. But above all, I am reassured by the attitude of Undersecretary Sileri. I am convinced, in fact, that he will be the first to demand that, inside that building, everyone do their part. With regard to this last circumstance, I am also very happy to have indicated to my colleague Binetti the events related to the cancer register. We have passed a law since 2019; the register is still on paper because there are no implementing decrees. On the other hand, we know that the implementation of the decrees is a matter for every measure that dismisses Parliament; there are implementing measures that have been delaying for years, even in the seismic emergency as in the pandemic emergency. Therefore, even where there are moments of serious and true emergency, acclaimed, acclaimed, the implementing measures delay to arrive and you do not understand well why. I would suggest to my colleagues that I do not say a Commission of Inquiry, which would perhaps also be well founded on some of the issues, but that we begin to schedule the deadlines for the implementation of the measures which are being fired, even in order to assess their effectiveness, since it is clear that, if they are fired, an urgency requires them. Finally, Mr Sileri, I would like to say that, in the document we are called upon to approve, there are absolutely important passages, such as the one on the need to update the instrumental park relating to oncology therapies, and I am referring in particular to the entire park of equipment for oncology radiotherapy. On this subject there have also been legislative measures, which, moreover, have limited, with dubious constitutional logic, the modernization of equipment only to the Centre-South or even to the South alone, if I recall correctly. I have tabled a number of acts and questions on this subject. In fact, I believe that oncology radiotherapy equipment, which is also the great development of technology that involves less invasiveness, greater effectiveness and greater precision of treatments, is perfectly within the framework of the PNRR mission 6, the one concerning the modernisation of technologies, telemedicine, treatments and digitisation. On this particular point, Mr Sileri, I look forward to special attention, because there is much to be done on this point. In fact, we have oncology therapy equipment that is sometimes even 20 years old, so maintenance contracts have even expired. So we have equipment that probably, instead of treating, further complicates the side effects of a neoplasm that is already a serious problem in itself and that the patient "takes a walk." Ladies and gentlemen, on the one hand I am happy and, on the other hand, I am based on the fact that we have to work in place of an entire apparatus that seems to be dealing with something else. We therefore hope that, at least on what this apparatus deals with, we will be able to see the results, since to date the results in the contrast to the emergency Covid are not only not seen, but we are even credited with a palmarès of negative records that envy also the part in the shadow of the world, the " dark side of the moon." [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u35	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u37	BOLDRINI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Covid emergency has put a strain on hospitals and health facilities and on some patients with other, equally serious diseases, such as cancer patients, have unfortunately stopped treating themselves. The confirmation came also during the presentation of a very recent study from Censis, last week, in which it is said that, due to the emergency Covid, there were 46 million specialist visits and diagnostic tests less, more than 700,000 admissions less in internal medicine, 3 million less of cancer screening, with 14,000 diagnosis of cancer less. We can therefore update the data, even with respect to the motions that we have rightly withdrawn, in order to prepare a unitary agenda, and therefore even more forcefully to Parliament's action: all this means that delays in the execution of screenings unfortunately result in a clear reduction not only of the new diagnosis, but also of those spy diagnosis, which are responsible for discovering the presence of an even more advanced cancer. And this is unfortunately a problem. I still remember, given and considering that the woman's health is very close to our heart, the approximately 2,000 less diagnosis of breast cancer. Knowing that the survival rate in cases of breast cancer is very high, we will see later, unfortunately, in light of this slowdown, what the data will be. The trend at this stage worsens, compared to Covid infection, significantly increasing its mortality rate. Basically, the demand for health care has decreased due to two factors: the closure of visits and screenings, which also took place because patients were afraid of being infected, remained out of it. So there will surely be a wave of return to the National Health Service, something we will have to deal with as soon as the tension of the Covid relaxes, what I hope will happen soon. We will then have to ensure that these malignancies are more rapidly identified at a later stage. Unfortunately, the pandemic has been a factor of acceleration of pre-existing phenomena; in fact, we remember that screening is not taking place throughout the national territory. I must say, unfortunately, once again, that territorial unevenness in the regions, which clearly and relentlessly highlights all our structural fragility. That is why, despite the fact that we did so in the Commission too, in order to make everyone aware of what is being done in the Health and Health Commission, we report back to you after unanimously adopting a resolution on the 15th National Day of the oncology patient. We have also accepted this request because on this occasion the representatives of the Italian Federation of voluntary associations in oncology (FAVO) and of the main scientific societies in the field - Italian Association of Medical Oncology (AIOM), Italian Association of Radiotherapy and Oncology (AIRO), Italian Society of Oncology Surgery (SICO), Italian Society of Psycho-oncology (SIPO) and National Federation of Nursing Professional Orders (FNOPI) - had prepared and promoted a shared programmatic document to outline a strategy to overcome the Covid emergency and restore, as soon as possible, the level of assistance for cancer patients guaranteed until the beginning of confinement. I therefore repeat that, unfortunately, there is still a serious and unacceptable territorial inequality with regard to access to oncology assistance. On the unitary agenda there are many points and I thank the Undersecretary Sileri who said that he will be responsible for verifying the implementation of the National Oncology Plan; in fact we know that important issues are the implementation of the National Plans and the fact that they are done quickly to speed up the times because the therapies and in this case, unfortunately, time are also necessary. Then we must do it as soon as possible. I would like to point out that this is one of the issues that have been taken into account at international and European level. One of Horizon Europe's ambitious programmes is to respond to major social challenges to adapt to and to climate change, and one of these missions is dedicated entirely to the fight against cancer, setting itself the bold and stimulating goal of saving 3 million lives by 2030. So if the European Commission faces this challenge, we too must do so within our own country. These are the directions and guidelines that Europe gives us. I think there should be an incentive in our country, too. We are giving the government power today to do this. It becomes therefore urgent to adopt this Plan, taking into account all the updates that the Undersecretary mentioned earlier and knowing that there are always innovative therapies that can give additional possibilities to cancer patients to have a longer life, in order to monitor the concrete implementation of the plan (I remember that monitoring is one of the actions that is usually always connected to the actual and concrete implementation of a plan) with a specific attention to oncology. Another important commitment in the document concerns the implementation of the so-called decree Cura Italia, which recognizes the role and functions of the figure of the family nurse, who takes initiatives to foresee an adequate national recruitment. We also need to talk about this; we have talked about health professionals, but we need to know that there is a need to recruit more professionals. In fact, apart from specialist doctors, we also have professions such as nurses and we need to increase the number of enrolments in the relevant courses, seen and given the social situation. We want our cancer patients to become chronic because that means a much longer life for them. There must therefore be more professionals in the health sector, while also taking initiatives that can modernise diagnostic screening technology. The sooner you can spot the tumor, the sooner you can fight it and even survive. These are therefore very important commitments that we want to highlight. Another important activity at this time of emergency Covid is to continue to facilitate the delivery of medicines at home. It had already been foreseen in so many measures on the Covid, we continue to do so so that our patients avoid turning; at this point it must turn who is healthy, not who instead needs to be protected. These are all commitments that we are asking the Government, together with that which is no less important, as I said again this morning in a hearing that we held in 12a. Commission, psychological support. Even from this point of view, especially for cancer patients, for people who need it for their well-being, we must start to think that psychological support is not more than one, it is not a furnishing. I have also heard associations, especially in this case of oncohematologists who have patients who need this support and today I was told that the situation is not the same throughout Italy: there are certainly best practices but not everywhere. Psychology is also fundamental from this point of view; in fact it has been scientifically proven that it could be really important if the person as a whole is better also from the psychological point of view, imagine yourself in a path where unfortunately there is such an intrusive pathology. I therefore declare the Democratic Party's vote in favour of the G1 unitary agenda, for which I really thank all my colleagues, because this collegiality allows us to give much more strength. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u38	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u40	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, I would like to thank Senator Binetti and the Commission for their work. We fully agree with the G1 agenda that we are about to vote on; I take this opportunity to make just two comments. I do not think it can be a surprise to anyone that the pandemic has had very serious consequences for the National Health System, which had limits and structural problems prior to the pandemic itself. It is precisely on oncology issues, where there are decisive challenges, that our country must take clear political orientations: it is not enough to say that territorial medicine is needed, it is not enough to say that home care is needed. We must say how we want home care and territorial medicine; if we want to go in the direction of strengthening governance of the integrated system, and multi-professional through districts and public governance or if instead we think of a kind of DIY. Now the great challenge of innovative medicines, especially on cancer therapies, poses a great global theme: before the pandemic and the Covid eight out of ten researches were essentially on cancer and cardiovascular diseases, because here there is the market. It's no accident we don't have an AIDS vaccine yet and we only have treatments. Do we want to raise this problem? If we want to make a qualitative leap, this is a subject from which we cannot escape. An innovative oncology therapy costs 2,000 percent more than an old oncology therapy. How do we guarantee universality? These are issues that must be addressed in the plan and we must begin to address the other problem, which must also be part of the Plan, namely the great environmental issue and the consequences of transformation of the productive structure of our country, thinking first of all of the area of the Po Valley, where the consequences are enormous. I would not like us to simplify, sad days are those in which we try to find a scapegoat, in which everyone practices the most widespread sport in Italy, which is not football, but it is to blame someone else. This method is not good and does not convince us. You can make propaganda, but you don't solve problems. To solve the problems we need cohesion, we need a vision and we need to be available. Once again, I repeat that on our part we have already asked several times not to have a general debate on what health should be like, but to study a real reform and tackle the problems we face. If we want to develop a serious and quality vaccination plan, which addresses the issue of the relationship with the Regions, of an integrated network between regions and national level, it is first of all the Government that must give an example of cohesion and must give us a strategic trace, so that we can face a serious discussion and not download the barrel, but make a qualitative leap. I think we have so many difficult problems and the wrong answer is and would be to simplify without solving the fundamental problems. Let us begin, therefore, to discuss these nodes, which are the ones that I tried schematically to trace. On the basis of this, the government tells us what are the choices that it proposes and allows us to have a serious discussion, in search of that qualitative leap that, I repeat, is made only with cohesion and with the example of the government. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u41	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u43	STABLE (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, even for oncology diseases, as has been mentioned a little by everyone, during the Covid pandemic our National Health Service has highlighted some of its problems and fragility already present, which have obviously become very serious due to the epidemic. Data on cancer screening have been mentioned, so the possibility of early diagnosis in healthy people at that time or at least without symptoms: well, the delay or lack of screening, obviously, has caused us to detect fewer cancers. The others will identify them in the future, in the coming months and in the coming years and will almost certainly be at a more advanced stage. So even if the virus magically disappeared tomorrow, we'd carry on with these pandemic consequences for several more years. In addition to screening, the diagnosis of a tumor must also be timely. The pandemic caused the waiting lists to be extended for various diagnostic tests necessary to diagnose the tumor, or for a preoperative evaluation, in case the result was surgery. Surgical waiting lists for tumors, even at a relatively short time (one or two months), have been greatly prolonged. This also delays the treatment of these patients and compromises their future, because very easily these people will have to undergo more invasive, more destructive and ultimately more disabling surgeries. This in perhaps less unfortunate cases, because in many others there is even a risk of not being able to arrive in time. Then, there's everything that comes after surgery, when necessary, like rehabilitation. In Covid era, rehabilitation departments were converted into Covid departments to accommodate such sick people. This is another important element for cancer patients who have failed, as well as follow-ups, controls and any further care, or psychological support and home care when needed. All this has been made difficult and sometimes even inaccessible by the pandemic. And to think that science is continually making huge progress in cancer therapy, which constantly changes and evolves and precision medicine is increasingly personalized. But the important thing is that people get access to these treatments. The current medicine allows cancer diseases to no longer be a condemnation to certain death, because they have become basically chronic diseases, with which a person can live quite well, often with a good quality of life even for many years. Therefore, a health system that devotes more and more attention to chronicity, given also the demographic situation of our country, must turn in an important way to the treatment and treatment of these diseases. The actions referred to in the motion are in fact of various kinds: there is the planning-organizational plan of the National Oncology Plan, there are regional plans, there is the need for control, monitoring and coordination of all this. Another aspect of the intervention, to which I have already mentioned, is the more properly medical-scientific one, that is the strengthening of the instruments and the fact of making the new therapies accessible overcoming inequalities, that is the need to update the technologies, the so-called machines of the hospitals that is often obsolete and insufficient for the needs. [[Applause]] Moreover, there is the territorial assistance side. Perhaps not everyone knows that for decades in oncology the password has been "decentralized," that is, to assist people as close as possible to their living environments, as much as possible in families. This has been highlighted by many. For these reasons, the Forza Italia-Berlusconi Group, President-UDC, will vote in favour. This is an important aspect that concerns our health system, whose structures and components are interconnected and it is therefore impossible to make a part of it work if the whole system is not made able to operate well Having to provide for a reconstruction of our health system, raising it from the discomfort in which it is now, we should therefore also think about the cuts that have been made in recent years. The reconstruction to operate, in fact, must start not only from the devastation of the Covid, but also from the damage done with the cuts made in the past years. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u44	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u46	DORIA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the price we have paid so far in this pandemic and which we will continue to pay in terms of human lives until the day of the attainment of flock immunity is just a taste of what awaits us. The day we're out of it, we'll deal with the worst waves, the one that bears the name and suffering of the hundreds of thousands of patients who have had the fate of contracting serious, potentially deadly and crippling diseases like and more than the Covid, on the eve or during this year and a half of pandemics. These are patients who have no longer had hospital wards to hospitalize in, or who have seen thinning out, until they disappear, specialist visits and tests that could have diagnosed tumors before their metastases made them no longer attackable. It is known, in fact, that the diagnosis and early treatment of primitive cancer greatly improve the prognosis quoad vitam sometimes radically. Hand numbers, even in regions where health care is an excellence, there has been a 22% reduction in breast cancer interventions, 24 percent in prostate cancer, 32 percent in colon cancer, 13 percent in rectum and lung cancer, 21 percent in melanoma and 31 percent in thyroid cancer. During the first wave another serious problem was the suspension of oncology screening activities on national territory, with a delay in diagnosis whose harmful effects will be seen over time. Screening, in fact, is a fundamental moment in oncology since diagnostic anticipation is still today one of the main factors that improves prognosis and one of the weapons, especially in some types of cancer such as breast, colon and cervix. Unfortunately, even today, most cases of cancer are only identified when symptoms worthy of diagnostic examination appear, usually in hospitals. During the lockdown period, access to the hospital and diagnostic activities has been drastically reduced not only for objective reasons, such as the difficulty in differentiation of routes, the scarcity of human resources and technological deficiencies, but also due to the fear of patients going to hospital facilities. The regions, however heterogeneously, have tried to guarantee the path of cancer in order to ensure, as far as possible, chemotherapy treatments, surgical therapies and radiotherapy treatments. In general, a whole series of emergent activities have been implemented, therefore with field testing characteristics, which have allowed to maintain contact with the oncology patient. Only a few initiatives have taken advantage of the use of telemedicine: think of the management of some follow-up visits at a territorial level or the domiciliation of some chemotherapy therapies. These initiatives have served to try to maintain the relationship between doctor and patient, but at the same time they have set in motion a profound acceleration of a process that for some years now began to have an evidence, that is to begin to rethink the oncology in the perspective of a stronger integration between hospital and territory. The patient must always be the only actor around which all the skills that the system is able to provide. The logic of taking care and taking care of the patient, even more so of the oncology in its different stages of relationship with the disease, is the guiding concept to which to refer and is also one of the fundamental elements with which the nets are declining by pathology within the oncology network. The oncology network cannot, in fact, be based only on technical-professional coordination by experts or competent figures, but it must be a real organizational structure with leading key figures from a management point of view that feed and manage all the different intercompany organisational levels. It is a meta-company dimension that allows to unite, within a network for pathology, the ways in which all the protagonists are called to interact, having a single conceptual and organizational reference. Times of reaction and governance of relations between territories and hospital structures depend very much on the level of structuring that each Region manages to consolidate for its own cancer network that the pandemic has put to a hard test. The second phase of the Covid-19 pandemic, however, did not catch us so unprepared, and therefore, despite the substantial increase in Covid admissions, a gradual resumption of non-Covid fundamental clinical activities has been observed. From this experience we need to draw a lot of inspiration to give a strong boost to organisational innovation within our health systems. The alternative methods, especially with regard to outpatient access, have constituted an important test ground for all that is now attributable to e-Healt, and therefore not only the television and teleconsultation, but also the possibility of monitoring patients at home. However, we all know that telemedicine is a bit like distance learning: it cannot be a substitute for assistance, but a supplement. The need for a new National Oncology Plan, which dates back to 2016, is now very timely as a tool for drawing national guidelines from screening to palliative care. In fact, when we talk about oncology, we cannot neglect all the related care settings; we cannot talk only about the hospital or the home one, especially if we want to look at it all through the concept of the network. The new National Plan will have to affect the themes of genomics, spontaneous mutations and the anticipation of screening by familiarity, guaranteeing that much desired leap in quality of national oncology. We need a reaction to three hundred and sixty degrees instantly, and today we are gathered here as a witness to our commitment to guarantee cancer patients the best standards of diagnosis and treatment, despite the fact that it is in the third pandemic wave that continues to absorb resources in an extraordinary way. The sad daily bulletins of deaths and contagions from Covid-19 have occupied the mass media scene, but we must not forget the much higher number of people who die every day from chronic diseases, cancer and cardiovascular diseases. The second element is territorial assistance in continuity with the hospital. The USCA will be the backbone of the continuity of care; within these groups, once the pandemic is over, there will also have to be specialists and among them territorial oncologists, as well as psychologists and pain therapists. In fact, if we want to talk about oncology home care, it cannot be just nursing. A separate speech deserves to be screened. Oncology screening is a service that is offered free of charge to Italian citizens, but this resource is used - when it is good and, above all, at certain latitudes - at most from 25 to 30 percent of the people it is aimed at, which means that we have about 70 percent of preventive strategy that has a cost, but is underused. Professor Sileri teaches us what difference there is between a colon octopus in the first stage and a situation instead advanced of a colon cancer and in this screening represents the winning weapon. We therefore need to turn back to focus on the usefulness of prevention departments, not just in the field of vaccination. From the point of view of the organization of the health system, as well as from the point of view of the opportunities that it can offer to the welfare system as a whole, the pandemic must give us some ideas about the development of a new relationship between hospital and territory, if it allows to elaborate and follow appropriate diagnostic-therapeutic paths. The creation of defined diagnostic-therapeutic pathways would allow a rationalization of the expenditure and better management of the patient within the territory where the oncology network operates. Finally, I would like to mention the extra-region mobility system. The problem will soon explode, because mobility in 2020 has almost zeroed and in 2021 it will continue to be very low. How, then, will the regions that used to send all patients out to assist them correctly? It will be necessary to understand whether these regions and their health structures will be able to provide this type of assistance and, if they are not, it will be necessary to invest immediately by controlling and monitoring, verifying everything, in order to ensure proper management of the oncology patient. To conclude, I believe that the organizational pandemic can be regarded as a turning point and acceleration of some activities on which we were already working, because the world is no longer the same. The creation and optimisation of regional oncology networks is therefore necessary as a tool for the correct multidisciplinary take-up of the patient, the identification of structured diagnostic-therapeutic pathways that guarantee the functioning of the network and the management of the oncology patient and the investment in telemedicine tools, seen as the useful and necessary completion of patient management, with particular reference to follow-up. For the reasons set out above, the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group announces the vote in favour of the agenda G1. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u47	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u49	PISANI Giuseppe (M5S). Mr President, Mr Undersecretaries, ladies and gentlemen, Senators and fellow Senators, the serious pandemic at Covid-19 is putting the burden on the National Health Service, causing, in addition to a considerable excess of mortality, a progressive increase in the number of cancer patients, forced to delay controls and delay their treatment. Tertiary prevention, that aimed at the diagnostic anticipation of recovery of disease, is not procrastinable in cancer patients, because the lack of timeliness of the diagnosis of recovery leads to less possibility of healing, with the consequent increase in the number of years of life lost. Today more than 50 percent of cancer patients heal permanently and another substantial part chronicles their disease due to treatment, achieving goals of life expectancy and long-term survival almost equal to those in the absence of disease. In addition to tertiary prevention, secondary prevention, i.e. screening in the healthy population, is strongly affected by current medical emergency conditions, and this should not happen, because it is well known that a delay in the diagnosis of a tumor involves more complex and aggressive therapeutic interventions, to the further detriment of patients' psychophysical conditions and increased health costs. To make these situations more serious, as already mentioned, are often added conditions of economic discomfort and of no less important psychological discomfort, which worsen the quality of life of cancer patients, compromising the social and individual efforts aimed at overcoming the disease. There is no doubt that the current disease is testing the results achieved in previous years in the fight against cancer through the primary and secondary prevention interventions implemented by our health system. The improvement of our health service is mainly due to the strengthening of territorial medicine, starting with home care, which must become the first and appropriate place of care in order to reduce improper access to hospital facilities, making use of the benefits and benefits offered by telemedicine and other digital health techniques. In this context, prevention and treatment of oncology diseases cannot be overlooked, for which the update of the National Oncology Plan and the strengthening and interconnection of regional oncology networks are inseparable. Networks are indispensable tools for the global responsibility of cancer patients; they promote the adequacy and quality of care and economies of scale of the national health system and also increase the confidence and adherence of patients to the system. Knowledge of cancer data from cancer registers is essential for the effective and adequate functioning of the networks. Therefore, as the Undersecretary Sileri rightly pointed out at the outset, the publication of the Executive Regulation for the implementation of the Law of 22 March 2019, which entered into force on 20 April 2019, relating precisely to the establishment of the national network of cancer registers, for which, moreover, an allocation of one million euros has already been provided by the Budget Act of 2020. Accessibility to networks and networking are two pillars on which an effective health activity to combat cancer is based, together with research, which is a third important pillar. Research in the field of oncology has made numerous and important progress, achieving unthinkable cure goals until a few years ago through the sciences of the enemy. The genomics, proteomics and metabolomics studies have made it possible to pack personalised therapies in individual patients, bringing to the intracellular level the possibilities to intervene therapeutically and to correct the errors at the base of the birth and tumor growth of the cells. For this reason, it is also considered essential to implement the Plan for the innovation of the health system based on personalised medical sciences, enshrined in the State-Regions agreement on 26 October 2017, in order to ensure broad access to precision medicine and to promote investments aimed at the training of specialised personnel and the creation of appropriate structures. The update of the National Oncology Plan cannot be separated from the extension of the offer of pain therapy and palliative care, as already required by motions presented by the Health Commission, committing our Government. For the sake of effective treatment of pain and suffering, the offer of palliative care must also take place, where possible, at the home of the patient, in his home, in his daily environment of life, with psychological and spiritual support also to the family, on which almost always the greater care burden, precisely in the moment of greater psychic fragility. Finally, it cannot be understood that in the National Oncology Plan it will be necessary to revise the structure of regional oncology networks, in order to reduce and cancel the differences currently existing between the various Regions and Autonomous Provinces, with the overcoming of regional control centres and committees, often causing inappropriate delays, and therefore to establish ways of unitary and homogeneous access throughout the national territory at the same time, including the availability and usability of medicines. Regional disparities which would be avoided by returning to the exclusive competences of the State in all health interventions. Italy needs this new National Oncology Plan, because the current one has expired for years and is overcome by advances in science and technology. We therefore believe that it is necessary today not to make us unprepared for this challenge and that it is necessary to provide for a commitment for the Government to adopt the new National Oncology Plan, coordinated with the European Oncology Plan. As Movimento 5 Stars, we believe that the fairness of a health system is free from the treatment and attention it gives to the most fragile subjects. For these reasons, by expressing our thanks to Senators Binetti and Boldrini, promoters of the motions, we will vote in favour of the agenda under discussion. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u50	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u51	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u52	PARAGO (Mixed). Mr President, I am obliged to use the escamotage of dissenting votes to denounce a serious fact, which, however, seems important to me. "Wake up my love" is a fiction aired on Mediaset networks, which tells the story of the tragedy of those who live in certain situations in which one has to choose between the right to work and the right to health, and also the right not to have to die of cancer. On this TV fiction a worker expressed an opinion and posted on his Facebook page the invitation to watch it, commenting precisely on the right in question, which the fiction was highlighting clearly. It could have been the Ilva of Taranto, but also be Porto Marghera, Trieste or Gela. Here, this worker was fired for sharing on his Facebook page an opinion about having to choose, in these cities, between the right to work and the right to health. It was important that, on such an occasion, the absolute gravity of this fact should be emphasized. Now, if you will forgive me for using this dissenting explanation of vote as an escapism, without any controversy, to bring to the attention of this House the serious fact, of course I will vote in favour, otherwise I will be forced to abstain, but only for wanting to say this. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u53	Of course, Senator Paragon was able to make his speech at this stage. Let us say that the word 'escamotage' is not really the best, not least because there is no shortage of parliamentary opportunities to make a point that is certainly important. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1, presented by Senators Binetti, Boldrini, Castellone, Giuseppe Pisani, Pirro, Fregolent, Cantù, Zaffini, Parente, Siclari, Iori, Richetti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u54	Mr President, I did not have time to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u55	We note this, Senator Urso, it was a fraction of a second.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u56	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00328 (text 2), tabled by Senator Parente and other Senators, 1-00322, tabled by Senator Binetti and other Senators, and 1-00330, presented by Senator Romano and other Senators, on the vaccination campaign against coronavirus. I call the Senator Parente to explain motion 328 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u57	Mr President, I would like to say that we are drawing up a unitary agenda, so I am prepared to withdraw the motion as soon as formalisation has taken place. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u58	Colleagues, please allow the senator to perform her speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u59	(at 18.28 p.m.) PARENT (IV-PSI). This motion has a very important meaning, because it concerns the vaccination priorities, of which we have discussed so much in this year and in the last few days. Deciding who to vaccinate before and who after, in the absence of sufficient doses for the entire population, implies ethical and political choices, which are essential to be taken by a gathering like this, Parliament. The motion asks first of all to implement the vaccination plan of the extraordinary commissioner Son, to eliminate the differences between the Regions, to which we are unfortunately present again at this stage, and to carry out vaccination in a uniform way, following as the sole criterion the fragility of the people, because they suffer from pathologies or for the age. Why? It's the only way... [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u60	Go ahead, Senator Parente, there is no above average disorder. [[Comments]] Most of all, you don't have to suggest it to me, colleagues. Anyway, please follow more carefully, considering that there isn't all this trouble, there are few of us.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u61	Even the last order of General Figlio states what I have specified, but we think that Parliament must make a unanimous decision on this matter, namely on the priority criteria, which must be the age and the presence of pathologies. We know that never before, in the history of humanity, has the issue of health also become fundamental for the recovery of the economy and employment. Only by protecting those who are at greatest risk of hospitalization and, unfortunately, death - and now, after a year of experience, we know what the subjects are - will we be able to resume the economy. We know that there are pressures from so many categories, but only by protecting the weakest - I would like to reiterate - can we lift the economy. It is a basic concept and it involves ethical choices that this Parliament has all the responsibility to take.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u62	I'd like to ask my colleagues to let the hemicycle go, yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u63	Parent (IV-PSI). I would say to the Government to insist on and continue on this path, also with respect to the relationship between the State and the Regions, because this decision has strong constitutional implications. I am thinking of the recent decision of the Constitutional Court, with reference to Article 117 of the Constitution, which states that, in the event of international prophylaxis, treatment and intervention for epidemics are exclusively at the head of the State. If we approve the unitary agenda, the Government will be given even more than a huge responsibility to proceed with the vaccination plan, setting priorities in relation to fragility and age, I repeat. The motion deals with two other fundamental issues: the first concerns the need to restore tracing. We know that in times when the epidemic is heavier we lose track and think we have to resume it, especially for families with children who are starting to go back to school. The other issue concerns data: we ask the Government to give careful consideration to those provided, which must first be updated, simplifying the parameters of the Rt index. In the last measures there is something that goes in this direction, because only having updated data, that allow to close abruptly even circumscribed areas in which the epidemic starts again and to reopen when the conditions improve, we could also avoid to close entire Regions. Updated data and tracking should therefore accompany the vaccination campaign. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u64	I would like to thank Senator Parente, who has well concluded her intervention despite some inconvenience.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u65	I call Senator Binetti to explain motion 322.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u66	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, talking about vaccines today means being at the very heart of the country's health problem. We have just adopted an agenda with which we want to defend non-Covid patients from a kind of hypertrophy that crosses the country, so everything is read with Covid glasses, against which there is only one serious remedy that we have today: the vaccine. The motion in my first signature, shared by the majority of my colleagues in the Forza Italia Group, Mr Berlusconi, President-UDC, tends to underline three things, which I would like to make clear. The first is that today the vaccine, precisely because it represents a sort of life-saving measure, becomes an integral part of the right to health, which is not only covered by our Constitution, but is also foreseen among the universal rights of man. These rights are those that are guaranteed to all men, in all places and in all times, because they represent a fundamental point of the right to life, which today is expressed, essentially, passing through that to vaccinate. After that, many other things derive from this right. In fact, we know all the great amount of rights relating to work or education, just to name two of the most important ones, which in this moment are somehow encapsulated or caged: I think of the children locked in the house by distance teaching or those who are waiting, with great attention, to reopen the whole world of production; we perceive this topic above all from the point of view of distribution, behind which it is evident however that there is all the production. I also think of the world of tourism, etc. So it all depends on the right to health, which can be guaranteed through the right to vaccination. One of the most important demands contained in the motion I signed is therefore that this right be recognised at this level. Clearly, if it is recognized as a universal right, guarantor of the quality of life, as well as of the lives of people, two important consequences derive from it. First of all, it is no longer just an individual right, but it is part of the social sphere, in the sense that the fact that another can be vaccinated interests me as much as the possibility of having the chance to do so, because his life immediately and directly interfaces with mine. It therefore becomes a zipper between individual and social rights and allows us to rethink the whole range of rights, in a much broader and much deeper solidarity logic. If all this is true, then it is essential that in pandemic time you can suspend - not abolish, but suspend - the patent of vaccination. Therefore, with regard to the patentability of products, which very often also looks to the commercial and productive world, it is necessary to ensure that a patent, when it becomes a guarantee of life, can be suspended. Incidentally, it is also what the Holy Father, Pope Francis, has asked repeatedly and on many occasions. In other words, it is necessary to ensure that the right to intellectual property, which must be protected, protected and protected, can be suspended when it becomes a sine qua non condition for the right to life of many people. These are the central points of the motion that I have tabled and those to which I am most concerned, which I hope with all my heart that they can be accepted and collected on the unitary agenda. If it contains these points, I can safely withdraw my motion and make it converge in an objective shared with the whole of this House. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call Senator Castellone to explain motion 330.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u67	Mr President, I would like to explain the motion tabled by the Movimento 5 Stars and the first signature of Senator Romano. We are living a new chapter in this pandemic: the first year we concentrated on reducing the infection, to reduce the hospitalizations and therefore the number of deaths, and now the goal must be to administer as many vaccines as possible, to restart. For the first time we have a vaccine that has been purchased with a single European tender, precisely to ensure fair access, spread and distributed exclusively on the basis of the number of citizens of each country. However, the next challenge must be to produce the vaccine on a large scale, because to cover and immunize 70 percent of the population, considering that there is a need for two doses would take 11 billion doses. We must then produce more vaccines in order to achieve the next objectives: to speed up the vaccination campaign and also help poor countries to administer them in order to achieve global coverage. At this historic moment, nationalism certainly does not help. The World Health Organization has also called for a fair distribution of vaccines and Amnesty International has denounced the opportunistic attitudes of different countries in the purchase of vaccines. No one saves himself at this time; at a time when inequalities have increased, if even those in the administration of vaccines increase, we put at risk the restart of some countries and we can create gaps that will no longer be recoverable in terms of both lost lives and GDP. Then we have to do it quickly, because we have to stem the spread of the variants of the virus, which, like all viruses, varies quickly, producing variants that give a selective advantage. The Brazilian variant, for example, that developed in an area where 75 percent of the population was infected with Covid, has the ability to infect the healed subjects, evading somehow the immune response from Covid. That is why it is necessary to do so quickly and it is not enough just to stop the export of vaccines, but to increase their production. It is now the case that a State which co-finances a patent has no say in either the cost, the sale or the distribution of the product. That is why, at this historic moment, when the world has changed, we must also turn this perspective upside down and ensure that countries have a decision-making space. [[Applause]] to cover the vaccination requirement. In motion 330, we ask that in the emergency situation that we are experiencing, states should be allowed, under a preventive economic agreement with the manufacturing companies, to temporarily suspend patents. [[Applause]] , therefore patent protection, also using the instrument of compulsory licensing, an important negotiating weapon with pharmaceutical companies. Many Member States have already done so; Germany, for example, has strengthened the compulsory licensing instrument. This can be achieved by supporting the call for a moratorium on the agreement on trade aspects of intellectual property rights (Trips), which was presented to the World Trade Organisation by 100 of the poorest countries, with India and South Africa at the top. A motion has already been adopted by the House of Deputies to push Europe to adopt this legislation, and with this text we are also calling for a commitment to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u68	I declare the debate open. Senator Boldrini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u69	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, once again we are talking about vaccines. Justly, as my fellow Members have mentioned earlier, these days - and we have also done so last week - we are presenting some agendas, which I hope will also be united on the subject that we are dealing with, in order to give more strength to government activities in order to proceed at this crucial moment, gathering the demands that Parliament can suggest. The moment is crucial because we wait to see the light at the end of the tunnel, although unfortunately there are some critical issues going on. We have seen that the National Plan of Vaccines gives precise indications, has been further updated and moreover the new extraordinary commissioner Son has given further indications on which categories to vaccinate. Also in this regard - I think I am almost redundant, but it is necessary to do so - I have to say that those indications should have been applied, but often unfortunately they have been disregarded, perhaps because a unique form has not been identified; unfortunately, we have seen that some information systems have had problems and that certain pathologies have not been inserted due to the lack of computerized data. As I said, the problems that have unfortunately emerged in this pandemic are all encountered at the moment. Commissioner Figlio, as you know, has turned around for all the vaccination points of the national territory and has also found excellences, one of which is in my territory; the commissioner has thought to consider a vaccination point as a flagship flower, because it is well organized; he said so, as you also saw in the news. This means that you can do it, in the sense that organizing well the facilities and staff is possible. I believe that from this point of view too best practices should be copied, if possible (also I always say so), but it is important that other regions can also implement this organizational mode. The criticalities, however, are not all here. In my opinion, from the point of view of the lack of doses of vaccines, we must, however, break a spear in favour of Europe for what it has done: think only if at this moment we had been alone as a country to confront us and fight with the other States to get the doses. It is true that perhaps we needed more intransigence in respect of contracts, but it is also true, as my colleague said earlier, that a global agreement would be needed to suspend patents and property rights and increase the production capacity of vaccines. This is another painful note we need to do something about. But know that I am happy with what has happened: on health Europe had never, with all the Member States, come to be in a position to move forward together; we must acknowledge this merit to our Minister Hope, because, as he told us in the communications he made in this House and also in the Commission, it was his idea to bring together all the States for the supply of vaccines. In the same way, I consider it right and important to proceed in a unitary way also to the identification of the famous green certificates, in order to be able to circulate more quietly throughout the national territory. It was a miracle to have found vaccines to fight the Covid, but the criticalities are there; however, I think that even today we are giving a good signal to find together new ways and additional ideas to give to our Government [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u70	He's enlisted to speak Senator Crucioli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u71	Mr President, let us finally talk about the vaccination plan, a subject on which this anesthetized Parliament has so far been kept on the margins. However, in order to speak seriously of this subject, which undoubtedly requires a scientific approach, we must first address the issue of transparency of scientific data and third-partyness and impartiality with respect to the political power of the scientific bodies that are called upon to interpret such data. It has recently been discovered that the pandemic plan, which should have protected the country from the spread of Covid and which could have avoided many losses of our loved ones, had never been updated: it simply lay in some drawer for decades. Now this story is bringing out a resounding absence of third-party authority and authority from the top of the most important medical and scientific organizations, which should provide data and information regardless of whether this pleases or displeases political power. In fact, if it is learned, Mr Sileri, from the publication of some interceptions between the vice president of the World Health Organization, former director general of the Ministry of Health, Ranieri Guerra, and the President of the Higher Institute of Health, as well as current member of the CTS, that the report of the researchers of the regional office of the WHO based in Venice, coordinated by Professor Zambon, had been concealed in order not to displeasing the political sensitivity of Minister Hope, with the direct involvement of the head of Cabinet of that Ministry and, in all probability, also of Minister Hope. The intercepts are chilling and unmistakable: the leaders of the two scientific bodies call the researchers "the fools of Venice," "the somarelli of Venice" and reassure each other that they have spoken in deep excuses with the Minister for a report that, telling the truth, would throw discredit on his work. This report is not criticized on the merits, but for its political inopportunity. Ranieri Guerra writes not to do shit, because it would be suicide, and he also promises, talking to the head of the Higher Institute of Health, to blow up some incorrigible head. Mr Sileri, you will understand that the credibility of the scientific institutions on which your Ministry bases its actions is being played on this matter. It seems clear that his ministry has influenced very important scientific findings that could have compromised the Minister's work and all this thanks to the plundering of the apical roles in such organizations and the absence of guarantees of third-party politics and the scientific and health world. On this, Minister Hope is also avoiding answering questions that have been tabled in this House, but this lack of transparency is not new: there has already been a scandal over the secrecy of the CTS minutes, unlocked only by an order of the Latium TAR; and do we want to talk about transparency in the rules for the procurement of vaccines and the contractual rules governing the purchase of vaccines? These contracts are surrounded by secrecy, greatly benefiting the profits of vaccine producers. The same absolute lack of transparency has also marked the AstraZeneca case, in which scientific bodies and the Government have denied to the last the connection with thrombosis, except then surrender to the evidence and limit its use to certain age groups. In the light of this opacity of scientific information and a narration by some top scientific health organizations that takes into account governmental sensitivity, it is difficult to fully judge some of the actions of the Government. However, the excessive restrictions of recent weeks may be doubted and the seasonal decline that the virus is experiencing regardless of the restrictions and the vaccination campaign is under-represented. Something, however, can be said with certainty. There is no certainty about the ability of vaccines to stop infection, but only to avoid the worst consequences on vaccinees and, since it is certain that the average age of deaths for Covid is 80 years old, it is clear that it would have been necessary to first vaccinate the older and the more fragile classes and not according to the working categories, so not only in terms of finding this plan failed, but the wrong people have been vaccinated, with the result that we are in second place for deaths. For all these reasons, the L'Alternativa component is stigmatizing the involvement of the Ministry of Health in the facts that led to the criminal investigation against the vice president of the WHO, will vote against the motions presented and calls for the establishment of a committee of parliamentary inquiry on the management of the pandemic. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u72	I didn't interrupt it, but please, next time, don't use inconvenient terms.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u75	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to ask for ten minutes to be suspended, since we are working to ensure that the agenda, which has now been signed by all the members of the majority, can also be shared with the opposition. We ask you, if possible, to have these ten minutes, which can clarify the situation better.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u76	Of course, Senator Romeo: since, according to the forecasts, we will end around 8.30 p.m., no more than 10 minutes of suspension. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 18.54 and resumed at 19.04.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u77	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u79	Parent (IV-PSI). Mr President, we have drawn up a unitary agenda for all political forces. It takes five minutes to collect signatures and define the very last things.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u80	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u81	About what, Senator Crucioli? CRUCIOLI (Mixed). The order of business. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. CRUCIOLI (Mixed). Mr President, since this agenda is unknown to this House, although - as has been said - it is being dealt with by all political forces, I would ask that all of us be given time to examine, evaluate and vote in an informed manner. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Lunesu is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u82	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, Minister Giorgetti has stated that there is a geopolitical war on vaccines, on which the concept of sovereignty is played. This means that the war for the supplies and for the doses of the serum is in place. We, of course, trust President Draghi and the Commissioner's structure, who are committed to getting 10 million additional doses than expected. But today is the news of the arrival of 45 million doses by June: so the vaccination campaign would be saved. Meanwhile, we trust in the production of Italian vaccines (Takis, Reithera) produced in collaboration with Spallanzani di Roma, which has already completed the first phase. The aim is to produce a single-dose vaccine, of which 100 million doses may be available in September. So I want to be optimistic and confident: all epidemics have a beginning and an end. But the question that we all ask ourselves is: when, thanks to vaccines, can Italy start again? Is it more realistic to focus on a lowering of lethality or to hope for flock immunity? Immunity will only be achieved when it is possible to block the circulation of the virus. If we had a 100% effective vaccine against infection and the certainty of lasting cover, we could have the result by vaccination 70 percent of the population. But Pfizer and Moderna vaccines are 97 percent effective and Astrazeneca 60-80 percent effective. Now Johnson & Johnson has also arrived, which can be administered from eighteen years of age up, effectively up to 77 percent; but for now - it is news today - has been suspended in the United States for the effects on blood clotting. The immunity of the flock could only reach it by vaccination of 97% of the population. But if we consider that there are so many people against the vaccine and that they really do not intend to vaccinate, and that we do not yet know how long immunity will last, the famous immunity of flock will for now be a mirage. Instead, we are talking about mass immunity - I like this term, which Commissioner Figlio used - which we can only achieve if we can vaccinate 80% of the population by September. After that, lethality will decline considerably and become similar to that of the flu. But all this will be possible only if Pfizer, Moderna and Astrazeneca respect the terms of delivery of vaccines, if the doubts about Astrazeneca will subside and if the plan of the Commissioner Son will proceed quickly reaching the 300,000 doses by the end of April and the 500,000 including the calls. Of course we must have confidence, but it is already polemic on the islands, which would soon like to become Covid free along with the small islands. The request of President Solinas and President Musumeci to give priority to the vaccination plan in Sardinia and Sicily to relaunch tourism, and also collected by Minister Garavaglia, has angered President Bonaccini. For me it is a legitimate request, given the conditions of disadvantage that are felt when living on an island, which penalize us especially on the infrastructural level. However, without controversy, in the meantime, I think it is right that we should focus on vaccinations, so that they can take place as soon as possible and work so that the digital Green certificate can be obtained throughout Europe. Think, above all, of supporting the research in the field of monoclonal antibodies. As far as research is concerned, allow me, Mr President, to wish Dr. Maria Chiara Carrozza every success, who will be the first woman to lead the CNR, who will finally, after having undergone many cuts, return to the best of her organizational and scientific functions. At this particular time we need to strengthen and finance research. I am referring precisely to monoclonal antibodies, the use of which can be of great help. The goal will be to verify whether they can represent a real therapy for the prevention and progression of the disease itself. I remember that monoclonal antibodies are used primarily in clinics and... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u83	Please, Senator, finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u84	LUNESU (L-SP-PSd'Az). That is why we must encourage research. The issues the government needs to focus on are vaccination and research. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u85	Senator Marinello is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u86	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the pandemic has really put us all in a situation of extreme difficulty, not only in Italy, but throughout the world. Many of the mistakes that were sincerely made, not only by the Italian people, but by the whole world, stem from the fact that there was no pandemic plan that indicated how to behave. Coronavirus has highlighted many weaknesses in our health structure. Unfortunately, in the initial phase, beyond the information that was given, people went, as they used to do, to the hospital. This situation was extremely serious because the excessive influx of patients into the hospital resulted in further spread of the disease. As we know, the hospital is a centre of high specialization, where patients who have specific needs to be cared for must necessarily be treated. However, the presence of many patients within the hospital has led to the further spread of the pandemic. Mr President, I would like to point out that, before the pandemic, I had presented a draft law, which is incardinated in the Health Commission, concerning the figure of the family nurse. You know very well, and we all know that the role of family nurse or community nurse is important. I realized this on the basis of the experience gained in the hospital, because for thirty-three years I was a doctor in the emergency area and in the hospital there were often elderly or chronic patients. I remember that when these patients arrived at the hospital, I would take the necessary care and, once the patient was stabilized, I would ask the family members why they had taken him to the hospital. It is not a matter of refusing the patient, but of saying that the chronic patient and, in this case, the Coronavirus patient can be in the initial phase definitely treated outside the hospital. The role of the family nurse - I would like to point out that the nurse has a fundamental role in hospital activity, but also in that at a territorial level - was also taken up by the Minister Hope in the so-called I throw again decree, with the forecast of the hiring of many thousands of doctors throughout Italy to allow the care of the patient at home. The speech - and I will conclude immediately - is that the only weapon we have is to use vaccinations. We know very well that vaccinations must be carried out on patients at risk and on health workers; I am obliged to say that all health care workers and all those who are in hospital must necessarily be vaccinated, because this is the only weapon we have. This allows us to change the order of factors, in the sense that we must think that there may be other particular events (we hope never), in front of which we must not be unprepared. Action must therefore be taken on territorial assistance and vaccinations at various points. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u87	The debate is closed. I say that the motions have been withdrawn and the G1 agenda has been presented. I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask him to give his opinion on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u88	Mr President, I am in favour of the G1 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u89	We shall now proceed to the vote on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u90	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u92	FARAONE (IV-PSI). Mr President, I would like to thank all my colleagues who have worked on this agenda and thank the Government for participating. The invitation, undersecretary Sileri, is to work to ensure that what is written in it is actually used for the action to be taken. I say this because I consider it intolerable that we can give political or institutional representation to those who want to cross the line for vaccinations and because I believe that this attitude is profoundly incorrect, as well as inhumane. First he imagined using the category "others" that had been identified in Parliament and by the Government to give mandate to the Regions to determine what could be the typicalities on which to intervene, in addition to the health professions, that we thought were the ones that needed before all to be vaccinated. In this way, the category "others" has been used to favour certain professions. It is strange, for example, that there has never been a priority in the professions to vaccinate shop clerks and clerks, who have never stopped working even in full lockdown, the most pressured one. However, there has been this attempt and I believe that the words of General Son and the President of the Council of Dragons have been clear so that this attempt can be foiled. Today there is another debate about another possible privilege, which is the territorial one: the Covid-free zones, free zones in which to anticipate vaccination and, even in that case, use the tool to override the row, not understanding that the only way to make a Covid-free place is mass immunity. In fact, even if vaccinated, you are contagious, Mr. Undersecretary. It is also unacceptable - and it was well done by General Son to emphasize it - that some Regions decide to "fuck" it and to make choices independently. I believe that the only thing we need to refer to in order to establish priorities is the objective data, unfortunately, of the deceased in these thirteen months of pandemics. 97 percent of those who have left us in our country, more than 110,000, are people who have had one or more previous diseases and the average age of the deceased is 80 years. I therefore believe that the only objective criterion to be used is the priority vaccination of persons included in particular age groups and under particular conditions of fragility and disability. I believe that this should be the only criterion that we must give ourselves in order to continue vaccination. The second objective to be concentrated is, then, immunity of flock, always continuing by age groups, as has been reiterated today by Minister Gelmini and we fully share. Of course, in order to achieve immunity from flock, tools can be used. Mr Secretary, we ask you to act in advance from this point of view by planning. The vaccine passport is an instrument that is working in Israel and we must equip ourselves with it, but it must already be programmed. We must avoid the limit of those who each time program the tools that must be provided at the same time as they need them; we must now establish the methods and rules for privacy that we must absolutely respect. The passport instrument will also be an incentive to vaccination and the hope is that in order to achieve immunity of flock you will never have to reach the vaccination obligation, but, if that is the objective, it will be absolutely essential to foresee it if necessary. From the numbers of the General Son: 15 million doses each month; in three months 45 million doses of vaccines and immunity of flock by September. If this is true, if we add to the vaccination campaign the summer ahead (we have already seen that the past summer has been a season that has experienced a drastic reduction in contagions), if we put together these two actions, we can say that the next days will be the restart for this country. And if it is the days of the restart, Undersecretary, we must schedule the departures with a precise schedule that will cover the schools, the state exams, which will have to be carried out in the presence, the outdoor activities. We believe, Undersecretary, that on that front you can listen to Burioni, Pregliasco, and the various scientists who say that in relation to those activities you can already make opening concessions provided in safety: for sport, theaters, cinema, restaurants. A speech must be made for the swabs. I said about the vaccine passport experienced in Israel that works. Well, in England they are experimenting with free swabs - two per week - and it is a tool to be supported by the vaccination campaign. We have written it on the agenda, Undersecretary, and we ask you to push in this direction, calendarizing the reopenings and avoiding the stupid derby between those who are more open-minded and those who want to keep closed. Keeping together the health and economic emergency is a topic that concerns the ruling class of this country as a whole, and the calendarization with certain dates will also allow us to avoid bad and harmful figures, such as the reopening promised for the ski season and never maintained, with enormous costs that companies have had to load. Alongside this, of course, we think that we must continue with the actions to support companies and workers by means of the Decree-Law Supports 2 and the measures that will be necessary. These are the only tools to stop the protests, which are legitimate if peaceful, given the economic condition of this country. Already today, Undersecretary, you can schedule the tourist season: we can say that you will go on holiday in Italy, we can tell the Italians that they can call the travel agencies and book the holiday, because this is an objective condition to be reached. At the same time, Undersecretary, we must push for monoclonal drugs, which must be used more in the regions. Some regions are doing it and working, the same should be done - with a boost from the Government - throughout the national territory. Like Italy Viva we have said that we need 30 billion investment in health care in order to guarantee even those who today cannot afford care, because our health structure is physiologically overburdened because of Covid. In fact, there are many other pathologies and many other interventions that are suffering severe shocks: patients with other pathologies that risk being neglected. Therefore, I believe that investing in health care is absolutely essential as well as investing in awareness-raising for the vaccination campaign. Policy should not put "beak" on the evaluation of vaccines. The evaluation of the scientific goodness of a vaccine is the responsibility of the EMA and Aifa in Italy, not the Member States of the European Economic Community. What happened on AstraZeneca is intolerable: a country cannot decide to stop the administration of a vaccine that has seen 86 cases of thrombosis out of 25 million, and of these 86 cases only 18 deaths, with the other countries that go after it. The same is happening on Johnson & Johnson: 6 out of 7 million cases. The United States decides to stop, but the United States has 300 million doses made available by Moderna and Pfizer. If Johnson & Johnson and AstraZeneca are suspended in Italy and Europe for no scientific reason, vaccination is stopped and there is enormous damage to the country. Undersecretary, we believe that action is needed to promote a strong awareness campaign, to accompany the measures I have told you, as highlighted by President Parente, who was the first signatory to the agenda. The only way out of the economic emergency is to make the vaccination campaign work. In conclusion, Undersecretary, we will come back to propose a Commission of Inquiry into what has happened in these thirteen months, because, if on the one hand, we are convinced that we need to push on vaccines and the economic management of the economic emergency, on the other hand we owe to all the families victims of the Covid the truth about the mistakes made and the responsibilities for a situation that, from certain points of view, has also got out of hand. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u93	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u95	Mr Zaffini (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are again in line with the commitment that we have inaugurated these days to share, by making every effort to understand, the documents that pertain to the great emergencies of our country at this historic moment. We have always said, and our President Giorgia Meloni has always said, that we would have this attitude towards the activity of Government, that we would be a stimulus and we would share the measures deemed indispensable and that we would oppose the measures deemed not to be acceptable. In particular, Mr President, the document before us relates to the vaccination campaign, namely, essentially, 'at the last beach', which is the last chance to recover the long lost time and the many mistakes made. Ladies and gentlemen, it is before everyone's eyes that in the case of the emergency, Covid, we have made so many mistakes and we have all paid them on time, or rather the Italians paid them, in terms of deaths, enormous sacrifices endured by our medical class and by all the personnel involved in the emergency Covid. We have paid them, above all, with a huge amount of industrial crises, lost jobs and economic damage, which will have to be restored and recovered over many years. With regard to this issue, ladies and gentlemen, we must not overlook the mistakes made. I do not intend to extend these again, first of all because I hate to talk about the things we have already dealt with a great deal, but secondly because I believe, as Mr Pharaoh said and as we have said a thousand times in the Commission, that what has happened, from the statement of the state of emergency to today, must be addressed and analysed seriously and clearly by a parliamentary committee of inquiry. It is obvious that, compared to what is happening, we cannot act as merely distracted spectators, or more interestedly disinterested: excuse the apparent conflict of terms. We must be convinced of the goodness of the path, which had already begun in the Commission before the Covid-19, namely the establishment of a Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the National Health Service. In fact, texts from all political parties, calling for the establishment of a Commission of Inquiry into the National Health Service, forty-one years after the famous law that established it, lie in the Commission. We must admit that, although he is forty-one years old, he shows many more, at least twice or triple. We therefore need a kind of reconsideration and ticket for this legislative measure and for the various changes that have stratified over time on it, such as the notorious Ministerial Decree No. 70 of 2015. Compared to all this, the Covid affair intervened as an atomic bomb, evidently stressing all the structures and accelerating all the processes of aging of this measure. The microphone continues to flash, President, it is a sort of intimidation that hangs over my words. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, Senator Zaffini, it's just he's been in the last 40 seconds. Mr Zaffini (FdI). No, ma'am, because I have ten minutes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Anyway, you keep talking. No one interrupted your intervention. Mr Zaffini (FdI). It was to signal that the microphone is flashing. With regard to all this, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot fail to seriously analyse everything that has happened in an appropriate forum which is that of the Commission of Inquiry. In my speech, however, I am not going to deal with this, but I am going to speak in a positive way about what is on the agenda for our debate. There are in fact many positive steps that it contains and that we have been given a way to improve with some details. The essential part is that we, with the same honesty with which we must admit that so many mistakes have been made, similarly we must recognize, colleagues, that the part that is missing in this huge campaign action of vaccination is the vaccine. We have today, where better and where worse, the Regions that have responded with their own vaccination plans and have equipped themselves to deliver and administer the necessary vaccines or, however, considered useful to the famous plan to achieve the immunity that I call general and not flock, because I do not like the term. [[The microphone starts flashing]] Mr President, I still have six minutes left for my speech. I'd like to understand how much time I still have.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u96	There's a technical problem that doesn't depend on me or you. Senator, don't look at the flash, you talk as long as you need to talk, I'll let you know when you have a minute left.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u97	Mr Zaffini (FdI). Thank you, President. The fact that we have prepared the machine gun, as I said to General Son, is not completely irrelevant, but we have not prepared the ammunition, so we have put ourselves in an agreement - which we will evaluate when and if you decide that we must fulfil our role and set up a blessed Commission of Inquiry - has prevented us from having the necessary vaccines. Today we are faced with a serious circumstance: we must immediately activate every possible channel to increase the availability of vaccines to be transferred to the regions, which are ready to administer them. We continue to entertain ourselves, and it seems that we have the will, with a sort of action of mass distraction; in fact, we continue to work on who must vaccinate, where and how we must vaccinate, on the criminal shield to be recognized to the vaccine workers, if they must vaccinate pharmacists or dentists, and on a whole series of discussions, which however are largely sterile when we do not give the availability of vaccines. I address the representative of the government, more aware of the fact that it is a bottleneck that is choking the entire vaccination campaign. The first important step of this agenda is therefore the commitment to the Government to activate every possible channel to buy outside of what I call a cursed European agreement, vaccines as soon as they are validated by the regulatory agencies; I remember that there are about 30 in the process of arriving in the third phase of experimentation. The second absolutely important step, which we have defined in the Commission, in the very good text drawn up by the President, concerns all matters relating to staff. As we said before, we have now cleared up the discussion on staff in all its parts. Today, paradoxically, we could be ready, if only we had the availability of vaccines, and we are obviously all concerned about this. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's got a minute now. Mr Zaffini (FdI). Basically, in this last period of time which I have been given, I would like to express my satisfaction at the fact that I have also drawn up a unitary document on the vaccination campaign, which was not at all obvious. However, care must be taken not to take advantage of this willingness by the opposition to neglect the implementation of what has been written in this document. Evidently, there is a commitment on the part of all to ensure that this happens on time. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u98	I apologize for the technical problem, which obviously does not depend on us.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u99	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u101	IORI (PD). Mr President, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, we have been facing the most difficult moment since the beginning of this health emergency, which has soon become a social and educational emergency, as well as an economic one. The country has been tried by more than a year of restrictions, unfortunately necessary to protect the health of its citizens and, despite the fact that the goal seems less distant, social and psychological constraints are at risk. Today, we are all aware that vaccines and the possibility of covering as quickly as possible the majority of the population, starting from the oldest and the most fragile, are the decisive element in achieving in fast times the immunity of flock and to overcome this dramatic emergency. The recovery goes through the effectiveness and speed of the vaccination campaign with which the curves of the contagions, the hospitalizations and the deaths come down. Science and research have made available to governments more than one safe and effective vaccine in less than a year, demonstrating how important it is to promote investment in development and research in the field of scientific health. It is clear that the European choice of a common strategy, of a single direction in purchasing, has also been crucial, but we cannot ignore the fact that mistakes have been made in contractual negotiation and the strengthening of industrial production capacity. It is no coincidence that both issues are now being repaired by the EU's ultimatum in AstraZeneca to bridge delays in the supply of agreed doses. From this point of view we have also been concerned with the issue of the production capacity of companies that have made vaccines. It will be a warning for the future, but today is not the time to dwell on possible mistakes; it is the time to put all our energies in place in order to achieve a vital result for Europe and for our country: that of not being late to the achievement of immunity. In order to succeed, we must first overcome the territorial disparities with which the vaccination campaign has often been managed. In this sense we welcome with satisfaction the order by which Commissioner Figlio has indicated to the Regions the vaccination priorities for the over 80 and the vulnerable. The guidelines contained in the vaccination plan have not been sufficient for many regions to behave in a virtuous, rational and forward-looking manner. Now we must look to the future and proceed to the vaccination of those who, according to scientific evidence, take the greatest risks if they contract the disease, namely to secure the elderly, in which more than 95% of the deaths are concentrated, and those who have notes of particular fragility for their condition. Stories of death and loneliness have been many and the quality of democracy of a country and its civilization is measured precisely on the ability to protect and protect the most fragile. I must say with regret that unfortunately health federalism has certainly shown some virtuous examples but also limitations, leading to discrimination, while health is a constitutionally guaranteed right that does not provide for differences, derogations or jumps in a row. The health system as a common good applies to citizens as well as to all benefits provided, which have suffered an inevitable halt with the surge of the crisis. We take the serious risk that, after the Covid emergency, the situation will suffer further repercussions and we cannot allow it, because our universalist system must be defended, because it is rated as one of the best in the world. We must be united on this issue. On the issue of which so much is being discussed and which concerns the possible risks associated with the administration of the AstraZeneca vaccine, I believe that errors of communication have been made, but that an immediate information campaign is necessary that calms the citizens. I fear that following public consent in the impossible attempt to promise a zero risk is a misleading path, because it is based on a purely political and non-scientific motivation. Now the greatest danger we face is that people's distrust of vaccines and institutions will grow. Finally, there is one subject that I particularly care about, because it concerns my city and has to do with the civilization of law. In our prisons, and in particular in the penitentiary of Reggio Emilia, the concentration of positives, with the risk of riots and unrest, would be significantly increasing. There is an emergency that concerns the lives of people and, if you are not able to feel solidarity for those who are serving a sentence, at least try to have it for workers engaged in prison facilities, places closed by definition and overcrowded. For this reason it would be important to reflect on the possibility of moving forward on the administration of vaccines to prisoners and prison guards. They are in fact communities in perennial emergency. Colleagues, even when the acute phase of the emergency - as we hope - can be mitigated and the vaccination campaign will have the desired beneficial effects, it will be necessary to have built a protection net, because the Covid, with its variants, will not disappear in the short term. We need a protection network with an active national surveillance plan, with widespread and free screening of the population. The closure of educational agencies has caused serious damage from the point of view of learning, but also on the educational and psychological side there are critical issues that leave you bewildered. We need a protection network based on other Covid diagnostic tools and a monitoring plan to block variants with timely measures, preventing the risk of ineffectiveness of vaccines; a network based on strengthening home care and territorial medicine. In the meantime, we need to prevent the vaccination campaign from suffering from further severe braking, which would be very serious and, in order to do so, we need a clear communication from the institutions and the scientific community, expressing themselves in a simple way, explaining the reasons for each choice, reassuring the citizens. We need a better dosing strategy. Now, in announcing the PD vote in favour, I want to focus on the concept of resilience, a term that has been widely used in recent times. Resilience, from the Latin resisting, is the ability not only to resist, but also to rise up, to face and overcome adversity. The intelligence and strength of a community are directly proportional to its ability to deal with the criticalities of a system that changes, translating them into opportunities. I therefore invite each of us to interpret this dramatic passage in the history of the country in the direction of a rebirth, a restart that could give us more opportunities provided that, in the coming months, we can all row in the same direction. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u102	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u104	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, we agree with the agenda that I consider to be important, partly because it sets out a path in relation to the debate that is taking place in recent days on the subject of reopenings. Our country is tired, Italian citizens are tired and worried and there are many demonstrations in place, but the most serious response on our part to the tension is certainly not to ride it. The country needs to define a clear perspective and path, but certainly the exploitation of Minister Hope will not go anywhere. As the President of the Draghi Council has well replied, it can and must be opened, building a safe path and working on three levels together: vaccination, tracking and swabs. Only in this way can we reopen the country's activities safely and avoid, for example, what has happened to other countries, such as Germany or France, but also to Sardinia. We must stop having a commuting attitude - I am addressing those who have it - to insist that we must reopen and then find ourselves again in the face of an emergency that we are unable to govern. Until we can reactivate the tracking connected to the swabs, reopening is a complex path. We must tell the citizens with honesty and clarity. Yesterday we had a meeting with an association of restaurateurs and gym managers. I believe that this reasoning is capable of understanding it, if politics, the Government, the institutions together and the Republic are capable of uttering clear, sincere and honest words in relation to the path that we still have to take. I share the fact that we must have a homogeneity of behavior in the regions and I also agree - and I want to say this clearly - that with respect to the Commissioner's indications of priority in vaccinations, that is, starting from age - there is the most serious problem of fragility, of risks and unfortunately of the too many deaths that we are still serving - those who move differently must see a government intervention, because nobody can do what they want within the regions. This was very clearly stated in a recent ruling by the Constitutional Court in relation to a law on Val d'Aosta. In the Constitution there are all the clear elements to ensure - at this point I say "guarantee" - a homogeneity in the management of vaccines. It is a fundamental point to give security and a perspective to the country. Finally, I think we are aware of the fact that the problem facing us has a long time to solve and we will not solve it only with the current vaccination campaign, because in the coming years we will have to continue to make vaccination calls. We need to know that and say it. In this regard, there is a great problem. How do we ensure, in this campaign and for the future, that vaccines are available as a common good for all citizens? And I am referring to all the citizens of the world, because it may seem superfluous - although unfortunately it is not - to say that the problem of the pandemic is not solved if vaccination is carried out only in the rich countries. We are in the age of globalisation and the states must address this issue. Currently 110 countries in the world have not given a single dose of vaccine. Do you realize that if we continue to move in this direction, the theme will prove unmanageable? In negotiating with pharmaceutical companies, the European Commission's action has had serious limitations, which must not be concealed. At the same time, however, the European Commission has decided something important, namely to set up an ad hoc committee to rewrite relations with Big Pharma. Colleagues and colleagues, this theme is inescapable: either we find the form to recognize the added value of research - and then allow countries to produce vaccines with all scientific knowledge - or we will not solve the problem. That is undoubtedly the case. If you want an example, just look at what happened with AIDS drugs. Until, as provided for in the Trips agreements, there was no opportunity to produce AIDS drugs to South Africa and other countries in great difficulty, the issue was a global emergency. We therefore need to reflect on these points. I shall end by focusing on the subject of communication. Undersecretary Sileri, it is good to make a correct communication. I have heard announcements that 40, 50 or 100 million vaccines would arrive, and I do not believe that this is the right communication to give certainty to citizens. Perhaps we need to reverse the mechanism by reassuring citizens by not sending out messages such as those we have given on the number of vaccines that arrive, but by giving guarantees that we do what we say, starting with the elderly and the most fragile. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u105	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u107	SICLARI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, members of the Government, on the subject of vaccines, as on all the most sensitive issues relating to the health and life of people, Forza Italia has always given - also from the opposition, in previous governments - that institutional support useful to make team for the country to overcome the emergency health. Since the beginning of the pandemic we have proposed in this House, with the leadership of the leader Anna Maria Bernini, the technical and health solutions that have then been considered valid and appropriate also by the Technical and Scientific Committee. Then we have proposed solutions and methods to anticipate the virus and avoid the rapid spread of infection. Today, with the same constructive spirit as then and with the institutional responsibility of always, we are committed to implementing all possible solutions to get the country out of the pandemic grip as soon as possible. [[Applause]] Among the various proposals of Forza Italia, we have elaborated and presented to the Government Dragons the vaccination plan, on which I had the honour and privilege of having personally worked as a doctor, together with colleagues of the party of Forza Italia, and which Commissioner Figlio appreciated and shared in part, with the sole aim of achieving the objective of immunity of flock as soon as possible. We have proposed and obtained vaccination in pharmacies, to allow a possible injection of the vaccine in a more capillary way. We have asked for the criminal shield for vaccine workers, to encourage all doctors and healthcare professionals to make themselves available to inoculate vaccines, because in order to get out of the crisis we need to vaccinate everyone as quickly as possible and in a short time. Again with regard to vaccines, my fellow senators, I would add that today we have put a question to the Minister of Health to know who will be given responsibility if the vaccines are not delivered in the prescribed time and time, causing delays in achieving immunity of flock and thus exacerbating the economic and financial crisis of our country, of small and medium-sized enterprises and of individual families. Moreover, with the question we asked to know who responds to the very rare cases of possible and serious side effects. Even if one case occurs for every 100 million vaccinees, it must be taken into consideration not to leave alone that family that has suffered serious vaccine damage, and at the same time to encourage, for administrative transparency - it is the most important aspect - citizens to believe and have confidence in the great work that we are working together, convincedly, on the vaccination plan. [[Applause]] This also allows us to overcome the mistrust of certain vaccines; we are discussing this every day in the Health Commission with President Parente. As Governor Musumeci denounced, 80% of citizens in Sicily reject Astrazeneca vaccine. This distrust is now likely to affect, unjustly, Johnson & Johnson too, according to the latest news. There are major delays linked to the shortage of medical personnel, especially in commissioner regions such as Calabria. Moreover, the interim companies contracted by the Government have not contacted retired doctors who have already given their willingness to vaccinate immediately. That is why we have made a further reminder and wanted this issue to be included on the agenda. It is not acceptable that Campania is working autonomously because it believes that it can do it alone: it is a message that cannot and must not pass; we must work according to a single vaccination plan, which must be the vaccination plan of the commissioner and the government. Even within my own category, that of doctors, we find the complaint of some colleagues who have not been vaccinated and who are even wrong - let me say this to my colleagues in this House - because they do not recommend vaccination: this is the biggest mistake. On the other hand, it is necessary to do quickly and well to respond to that part of the country that rightly goes down to the square to ask the government to do quickly, to do as soon as possible as the crisis is crushing the Italian families and the small enterprises that fear not to make it again. Our entire party, with President Berlusconi and Vice President Tajani, asked the Government to do a review of the situation on April 20, to evaluate - naturally following the technical parameters, including the curve of the contagion and the implementation of the pandemic plan - where it is possible to reopen the activities. And for this reason we are working to present to President Draghi a technical plan to promote reopenings in safety and as soon as possible. [[Applause]] Therefore, the present agenda, which collects what was proposed by Forza Italia, which - as I said in the premise - has always stood out for its high sense of responsibility and in a spirit of service towards the country, wants to be a further political input addressed to the Government. However, the time has come for a change of pace and a decisive acceleration towards the final goal. On behalf of Parliamentary Group Forza Italia Berlusconi President-UDC announces the vote in favour of the unitary agenda, as it contains a detailed, complete and complete report on today's vaccination situation and contributes politically to providing solutions to speed up and make a more efficient vaccination plan by accepting our proposals. The agenda, in fact, among the many points addressed, engages in particular the Government urgently to revise the vaccination plan in order to overcome the current delays, in the sense of pairing the vaccine types appropriate to the age targets, strengthening the human health resources involved in vaccination. It also includes among the vaccination priorities those who work in contact with the public and, among them, also the teaching and non-teaching staff of the school; it provides to repress and suppress any abuse, such as the famous list of vaccinated citizens who are under the heading "other" - rightly noted also by President Draghi - where you can read the names of those who were not entitled to vaccinate at this time and who instead vaccinated themselves, surpassing immorally and unconsciously the entitled and fragile figures. [[Applause]] The agenda also envisages speeding up the administration and committing adequate resources, both in the field of research, monoclonal antibodies, of the Italian ReiThera vaccine, and on the evaluation of the follow-up of the vaccinated people, fundamental to understand what will happen in the coming months compared to the vaccination plan that we are implementing, convinced that it is the only weapon to be able to get out of the pandemic. Ours is therefore a firm yes on the agenda and a full support to the Government, so that it can translate into concrete actions the elements that Parliament entrusts to it, Mr President and representatives of the Government, that, by accepting our proposal on the vaccination plan, is exalted the meaning of the vaccine, intended as an instrument that eliminates inequalities in the world, coloring of light and hope the right to health, which becomes truly universal and within the reach of all the citizens of the world and, at the same time, an instrument of solidarity because we are vaccination not only for ourselves, but above all to prevent the transmission of the virus and the other new variants, as is happening for the Covid. For these reasons the Forza Italia Group Berlusconi President-UDC announces its vote in favour. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u108	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u110	CANTU (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, since a lot of valuable speeches have already been made on this subject, absorbing what I wanted to say to you, I would just like to point out, as I have already said in this House, that it is not the vaccine workers who are missing, but the vaccines. Therefore, all attention should be paid to finding the doses, as has been announced and according to the commitments entered into on the agenda. I also recommend that you give the right attention to the prediction of the active and genomic surveillance plan, to govern the mutability of the virus, to safely contain in its variants and to monitor their interactions with the immune system and with drugs, to guarantee mass immunization. Anyone with practical ideas on how to supply additional quantities in emergency should be supported, provided that initiatives consistent with the European framework. I would take advantage of the remaining few minutes to invite you to an extravagant and paradoxical reflection, which could sound more or less like this: "Welcome Covid". If it is true, in fact, that we have had 115,000 victims for the pandemic, it is equally true that, in a miraculous way, official statistics seem that the deaths of heart attack, cancer and other pathologies, at least in January and February of this year, have 'disappeared'. In fact, I tried to compare the data released by Istat on official deaths and, not alone, we realized that there is something wrong. Indeed, Istat attests that mortality at national level in January and February is marginally higher than the average in previous years. For the exclusive use of lovers of numbers: 1.125 more in two months, already purified of the data of 2020. Always many, because of the people involved, but, unlike what happened at the beginning of the pandemic, today there is not that ecatombe that we are accustomed to listening every day and that gives us a weighted daily average of more than 400 Covid deaths; if so, in two months would be equal to about 24,000 more deaths, compared to the 1,125 registered, and should be found in the statistics. Vaccines certainly contributed to the decrease in mortality, because, although leopard stain and with some inefficiency, during the same period were 4 million those who had at least the first dose, which certainly helped to counteract the spread of Covid. But that is not enough to explain this discrasia. I am sure that there will be a time when there will be light on this in the meantime too, since all the necessary energies have been poured out on vaccines and today the machine is certainly able to reach 500,000 vaccinations daily, I think it is our duty to protect those who are suffering from other diseases, which because of Covid have been depressed. [[Applause]] As it has emerged in the treatment of the previous motion, it is not possible that throughout the national territory, in the months of January and February, the deaths for the first ten pathologies that afflict our society have decreased by more than 22,000 units, after, for more than a year, they have been suspended, deferred or interrupted 50 percent of the activities of hospitalization and care and more than 30 percent of the screenings and the visits of control. If that were the case, we should ask ourselves even more serious questions. From here comes my'strange' reflection "if the Covid causes to heal from all other pathologies": since this is not true, it will be necessary to shed light on why in Italy are found many more dead for Covid than in other countries where health care is equal or even less efficient than ours. [[Applause]] I am not convinced that from us - and we have already seen this - despite the lack of the pandemic plan and the lack of massive recourse to territorial care, on the one hand there has been a disproportionate death count (except for the first two months, when it crawled in the dark) and on the other an unmotivated miracle healing. I invite you to reflect, but at the same time to go further, not lacking our support for the system, to intervene in a timely and appropriate way on vaccinations, so that you can dedicate all attention to other pathologies. This should be the ultimate meaning of the agenda that we are preparing to approve, beyond the specific commitments required by the Government for a vaccination prophylaxis that is so widespread and widespread that it is so widespread to avoid other successive recrudescences: to combine strategic vaccination plan and national plan for the recovery of screening activities, taking charge and interventions of non-Covid pathologies with an ethical pact of co-responsibility between institutions, state and regions, distributors and operators, reorienting all the resources available for the purpose. Our vote is therefore in favour. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u111	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u113	PIRRO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking in this Chamber increasingly convinced that, at the end of this health emergency, a serious reflection on Title V of the Constitution will have to be opened. Regional autonomy in health management has shown all its limitations and, as the Movimento 5 Stars has been calling for for years, a discussion on this issue will no longer be postponed. We all know very well that this pandemic has put our National Health Service to the test, reduced by cuts that have perpetuated over the years: about EUR 37 billion in ten years. The good thing is that even those of those cuts were responsible when he was in the government today seem to have finally realized that health care cannot be harmed. We have also seen that some regional systems, in which - for example - there was a lot of focus on the private sector, impoverishing the medicine of the territory, have suffered more than others; I think, for example, of Lombardy. We have seen Regions that, in order not to abandon their regional reservation systems in favor of the state of Poste Italiane, have been faced with serious problems. We have seen and unfortunately still see regional differences in both the vaccination campaign and the use of monoclonals: Regions where priority has been given to certain occupational categories rather than to the elderly (let's look at Umbria with the lawyers); Regions where monoclonal antibodies have been delivered, but have not been used (but we know very well that this is a treatment that can drastically reduce a harmful course of the disease and hospitalizations in intensive care); in Calabria only one patient has been treated. We then saw electoral boutades, like the one made by Governor De Luca, who did not want to give priority to the elderly and fragile, while also denying what was decided in the State-Regions Conference. As if that were not enough, we are witnessing a diatribe on reopenings, as if it were a political stance, a sort of fake arm wrestling between "open tourists" and "rigorists," with dates thrown at random, which fuel the anxieties of the citizens, when it would really be enough a sense of responsibility; to work on the refreshments, as we have done so far; to reason on the reopenings in a secular way, being a health issue, starting from scientific data and from the trend of the vaccination campaign. [[Applause]] In all of this, we have some firm points. For example, we know - or we should all know this - that zone bands are the ones that have allowed us in the last few months to re-open and that in this also the course of the vaccination campaign plays a role. It is essential to proceed on the basis of age and medical risk, because only by securing those who risk the most serious consequences could we begin to open up safely. We protect the most fragile: in this way we will get less admissions in intensive care, hospitals will suffer less and we will be able to reopen. There is no room, of course, for that unholy choice of deluding those who paid the worst consequences of the closures. It's awful to choose to use this to raise votes. It is terrible to make fun of citizens; we must be honest: it is better to wait an extra week before opening, but to do so safely. We avoid the repetition of what happened with Sardinia, which, after two weeks of free all, has fallen back first in the orange area and now even in the red zone. So, on the one hand, the vaccines and on the other, the refreshments. On the vaccine front, there is no shameful attitude on the part of some pharmaceutical companies that delay deliveries and raise prices. For this reason the Movimento 5 Stars is carrying out a precise battle. We need to equip ourselves for local production, especially mRNA vaccines, and we need to liberalise patents with the tools allowed by the Trips agreements. [[Applause]] It is essential both to speed up the vaccination campaign and above all to ensure that vaccines reach everyone, even the poorest countries. It does not escape anyone from this pandemic that the whole world has to leave, and not just a part, not only the rich part that can be allowed vaccines, but all of them; it is an ethical discourse, a health safety speech. [[Applause]] In all this, it is important not to abandon Europe's global action. Many things have happened since that vaccination day of 27 December, but we feel that we are in any case averting the pressure to use vaccines not approved by the European Medicines Agency. Just look at what is happening, for example, in Chile, where politics decided instead of science: they used a vaccine that had not been tested enough and now they find themselves with uphill contagions and with insufficient coverage of the population. Similarly, we cannot turn to parallel markets, as some regional presidents propose, which do not provide guarantees and can ultimately be penalised for the common European strategy. There have been hiccups - it is useless to deny it - but we must not forget that it is thanks to vaccines if we can leave this pandemic behind. So let's move to solve the critical issues: we suspend the licenses, we start producing vaccines, we start not having to depend on anyone anymore; a small step to recover what we have dearest in the fastest possible way: our freedom. For this reason, the vote of the Movimento 5 Stars will be in favour of the unitary agenda. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u114	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u115	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u116	CRUCIOLI (Mixed). Mr President, the Alternative There will be a vote against the agenda for reasons of merit and method: method, because the agenda arrived a few minutes ago and, therefore, did not allow us to examine it in depth; on the merits, because it is enough to read the first paragraph to see a self-absorbed narrative of all the parties that make up the majority and also the false opposition. Suffice it to say that the national system has responded as best it can: it is not true. The reality is absolutely different... [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u117	Let Senator Crucioli speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u118	CRUCIOLI (Mixed). ...remarkable mistakes have been made. [[Protests.]] Stop brawling! Let me talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u119	Senator Rauti, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u120	Finish it, Senator. CRUCIOLI (Mixed). There have been obvious errors both in finding vaccines and in choosing people to vaccinate, as in the closures that have been excessive. Now it is said here that the system has responded in the best possible way. That's not true. We'll vote against it. The Alternative There is the only opposition. [[Protests.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u121	Colleagues, Senator Crucioli made his explanation of vote. [[Comments]] I'd pray not to continue. Senator Rauti, I'm calling you back to order. Colleagues, aren't we attributing too much importance? I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1, presented by the Senators Parente, Errani, Pirro, Fregolent, Iori, Laniece, Siclari and Zaffini. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u122	I communicate that the Extraordinary Commission for the Fight against Intolerantness, Racism, Anti-Semitism and Incitement to Hate and Violence, referred to in the motion approved by the Senate Assembly on 30 October 2019, was convened for its constitution, Thursday 15 April 2021, at 12.30 p.m., in the 10th Chamber. Standing Committee.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u123	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-314.ana.u124	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 14 April, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 20.26 p.m.
