ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-350.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Tosato, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-350.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-350.ana.u3	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 2320, already approved by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting the rapporteur carried out the oral report, the general discussion took place and the representative of the Government put the question of trust in the draft law for the conversion of Decree-Law No 73.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-350.ana.u4	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-350.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-350.ana.u6	STEGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since the beginning of the parliamentary term, I do not believe that there has been an important measure which has been dealt with by the two branches of Parliament, so I must begin my speech again by denouncing this anomaly, which will remain so until the perfect bicameralism is put in hand. However, at least in this case, with some luck and cooperation, we can say that the Senate had a role in determining the address of the measure with challenging agendas approved in the first decree-law supports. It is therefore a positive measure, not only because of the scale of resources, but also because it responds to a number of issues on time. I am thinking first of all of measures to cover the fixed costs of companies, starting with the waste tax (TARI), tax credit, measures to facilitate access to credit and avoid a liquidity crisis. I am thinking of the measures to support the world of work, with the refinancing of the NASPI and further months of Cassa Integrazione, of non-refundable aid for the self-employed. I am thinking, of course, of the increase in the National Fund for the Mountain, to support the leading activities, ski instructors, businesses and the snow economy, which (let us not forget) was the one most affected by the restrictions of the second wave. Another important element for the mountain introduced with the first decree-restoration laws was the choice of the reference period for the calculation of compensation. As Minister Franco recalled at the hearing, the numbers gave us reason and the companies that opted for the calculation on the pandemic year get more reasonable compensation. Now, Mr President, if these are the many positive notes, we must make an even greater effort on the implementing decrees for the effective delivery of resources. Only with this provision are necessary 41, which are added to the 28 of the first decree-restoration laws. It is a bureaucratic funnel that is causing concern among the winter tourism operators, since the aid will arrive not before September for the lifts and not before October for the schools and ski instructors. I know that we are in an exceptional situation, that the effort we are making is really great, but we must understand that it is nothing compared to the effort that many companies are making in not throwing in the towel. We must also understand that there would be no greater disaster than a new season of restrictions and closures. Science clearly tells us: if it is true that hospitalizations have decreased, the more the virus turns, the more the risk of a variant capable of piercing the vaccine. Therefore maximum attention, maximum caution, but above all to plan the management of the autumn through the tracings and a greater centrality of the green pass, that is not a threat to the individual freedom, but a transitional instrument to stimulate the vaccinations and is also a reward form for all those who, vaccinating, have made a useful gesture not only for themselves, but for the entire community. Again, I know that it is not a simple choice, that the country would like to leave the pandemic behind at last, but if we do not take a step forward now, we risk turning it back in a few weeks. Mr President, this measure weighs 40 billion, another massive injection of resources for families and businesses, which will not be enough if the dual commitment to the pandemic and to the development of the PNRR is not consolidated. We will talk about this when the decree-law on governance arrives, in particular on the role that local authorities must play in overcoming the problems that are emerging on the special autonomy. Here too, however, the same reasoning applies to the green pass: decisions are not easy, but never as in this historical phase it is always necessary to decide in terms of the general interest. I therefore very much hope that the spirit of national unity advocated by President Mattarella at the time of the birth of this Government will not be lost. That principle applies not only when it comes to redistributive policies, but also when all the conditions for the implementation of the PNRR must be developed, from the reform of justice, to the reform of taxation, from the objective of flock immunity, to other measures to avoid new restrictions and closures. The race to differentiate, to sop, to water down, to get ahead today does not help neither the country nor the political forces that do it. Italians know that this phase requires strong and courageous choices, choices that we must support with greater conviction, even exposing ourselves to some risk of unpopularity, because it is clear that there will always be a part to which certain decisions do not go well. We as autonomousists have always been there and will continue to be there and that is why I announce the Group's vote in favour of the measure and renew the confidence of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-350.ana.u7	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-350.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-350.ana.u9	CONZACTS (IV-PSI). Mr President, in anticipating the vote in favour of Italy Viva, I take the opportunity of converting the decree-law support- bis to make you aware that during this parliamentary term and, in particular, from the declaration of the state of emergency, the relationship between legislative and executive has been critical and that the role of Parliament has been particularly compressed. The decree-law supports-a is a necessary and important measure, which commits almost 40 billion resources. It is also a measure that we have strongly addressed because I am referring to an agenda prepared by the Budget Committee to close and approve the support-a which has studied and set up the system that the Government has then transposed, and of course we are satisfied with that. On the merits it is a good and technically well done measure, which also exceeds three critical issues that throughout the pandemic year I have highlighted as particularly dangerous, not only for our economy, but also for our rule of law. I am thinking of overcoming the rainy surgeries with a form of care. The new approach of the grants, which must also close with this last decree-law, has been much more focused and focused on the decrease of the turnover and the actual needs of the enterprises. I am thinking of overcoming the blockade of evictions, a measure strongly critical of the value and constitutional principle of private property. It has finally been partially unlocked and measures have also been devised to compensate property owners with the IMU exemption for those who had an eviction validation and for the declaration of non-taxation of rental fees not received. I am also thinking of the new approach to work which is important because it also goes beyond a necessary period of aid. Mr President, it is, however, almost an oxymoron to think that we can call employment citizenship income and emergency income. We therefore welcome the new approach, which is once again central to the reemployment contract and the solidarity contract. We also very much appreciate overcoming the blockade of redundancies; we know that it was a rather tiring mediation, but it was absolutely necessary. Italy has been among the very few countries in the world to adopt this type of approach and measure, however without great results because the numbers of unemployment are equal to those of other European countries and it was the last to revise it. We are therefore absolutely in favour of this measure. Overall, my assessment of the measure is positive and so my criticism is about the method of approval rather than the merit. We are now at an alternating monocameralism; we are in a state in which the Commissions work with very little time to analyze the measures. So, Mr President, if Parliament, with the work of cooperation between the parliamentary groups in the House and the Senate, can decide to make alternating amendments, politically agreeing on the priorities, certainly the work of Parliament and the legislator cannot be compressed in the possibility of studying and deepening the measures. I also state clearly that even the possibility of political direction can not be compressed by technical choices of the administrations which, in fact, hide purely political choices. Mr President, I entrust you with this message because it is important: the support-a measure must be the last decree-law of the stage of economic approach and aid towards it. The economy must start again with the National Recovery and Resilience Plan (PNRR) with its own legs. However, it must also be the last one approved in this way. In 2016 I voted yes to the constitutional referendum because I thought it was time for the institutions to have a more efficient structure; yet, the Italians said no, they said they trusted the double reading, so not only of MPs and senators, but they trust the technicians of the Chamber and Senate. We must respect this mandate. The month of July, in our parliamentary approach, must mark a hiatus, a division of times. We finish the pandemic era; we know that the vaccines used wisely will bring us back to our activities in safety, and we also know that since 13 July we have the green light - the Commission, before, and Ecofin after - to the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. We have five years in which to transform Italy: from high speed to intermodality, from artificial intelligence to sustainable economy. We have an extraordinary job to do. Not all five years are up to us; we are up to two years, but we must exploit them well, especially the next one, and especially until December, because we have the responsibility for the reforms, those that the country is waiting for and that Parliament has not been able to do for 20 years. I am talking about accompanying reforms, horizontal reforms to the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. President, those reforms cannot be dealt with with by mono-cameralism; we need strong cooperation, a strong system of government, certainly with Europe - and this is certainly there - but also with Parliament. We have to fill our institutions with gravitas; we have a strong responsibility to do what we have to do. We know that if Italy does not win the challenge of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan it will not remain in the G7. There are forecasters - maybe not lovers of Italy - who bet on the failure of our country in the realization of the PNRR and make a projection of us as a great tourist village, where the Italians will be waiters to one percent of the great, good and lucky of the world. President, I don't want Italy like this. We at Italia Viva want an Italy that remains in the G7 and we want a word, that maybe is ugly and pronounced SAL: a definitely cacophonic acronym, but that means progress work. This is the only acronym that has to bounce us in the head every day of the next five years. President, the 240 billion to date is nominal; they will only come if this Parliament and the Government - this and the next - are able to make the reforms. I declare the vote naturally in favour of the Italian Group Viva to the second decree-law supports because it is a necessary measure: it was necessary to support the economy; it is necessary because it is prodromic to the restart, the only thing that at this moment really counts together with the ability to transform Italy. We support the Government with great conviction and thank him for the high quality work he carries out every day for Italy and for the Italians.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-350.ana.u10	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-350.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-350.ana.u12	DE CARLO (FdI). Mr President, I am already beginning to say that the Brothers of Italy Group voted against this measure and I explain why we are against it both in the method and in the substance. In the method because it is now clear - as the previous speakers have said - as if it were someone else's fault, not the same - the compulsive appeal to the urgent decree, even if the pandemic is no longer an urgency. After a year and a half of constant and continuous confrontation with this uneasiness that struck the nation and the world, to think that something is urgent and emerging means to sanction the failure of the planning policy and the vision of the various governments that have succeeded each other for the sole purpose, given your statements, to save this nation. I repeat, save from whom, then, but from those who had helped to get it to the abyss? Those who are part of the Dragons Government today are the same ones who - by chance - were part of the previous Governments, so it is another admission of failure compared to only a few months before. There is still the compulsive and obsessive appeal to trust. In the last parliamentary term, MEPs went up to the roofs of Montecitorio to show their opposition to trust and did so rightly, believing that those who were democratically elected as Members of Parliament were deprived of the possibility of affecting the measures. These same Members of Parliament today are the ones who lower their eyes and find a justification - those who recall the emergency, those who have to save the nation - for this reckless, anti-historical and absolutely undemocratic appeal to trust. You see, most of you have certainly voted no, like so many citizens, to the 2016 referendum on the abolition of the Senate. Today, instead, you betray that mandate of the citizens with a recourse to the confidence that in fact establishes the constant and continuous monocameralism, that is, the possibility for us to discuss a measure in one House, as if the other did not serve, as if the popular mandate that has been given to us by millions of citizens did not serve anything. Today, in fact, there is this great "Macedony" of Government - always with a logic of agreement to the bottom - that saves the Nation and therefore there is no need for that segment of deputies and senators of Brothers of Italy that are almost perceived as a footprint, as something to be silenced. Do not do this, among other things, only in Parliament's classrooms, because we have seen the attempt to do so on state television too, because the need not to give a voice to the opposition is now part of your own nature. I quote the Zan bill, a liberticidal law, with which you tend to discriminate and persecute those who have a different vision from yours and dedicated precisely to that provision much more discussion than we dedicate to a 40 billion measure that should solve or try to solve the problems of so many companies. The Zan bill will probably move it to September, when you need it most in the election campaign, when some of you will shake it as a flag to protect freedom. We, on the other hand, wave the flag of freedom every day, even with our presence in this House. There is no country in the world that is said or democratic in which there is no opposition, make up for it, and that opposition is represented by us, so we also allow ourselves to say things that may be a little uncomfortable to you. Democracy is practiced, not preached, this is a fundamental concept, you cannot teach democracy when you practice anti-democracy and exchange the authority you believe you have with your authoritarianism. I understand that for many of you this is a source of absolute shame, after spending your life banning democracy as a value inherent in your DNA. Unfortunately, then, to the test of facts, you have proved yourself to be what you really are: liberticides, limiters of the freedoms of others, coercors of the freedom of citizens. I had the Covid, I vaccinated myself like many of us, but I think we can't force someone to do it just for our desire to severely limit the freedom of others, also because if so many people do not vaccinate in Italy today, ask yourself a question and give you an answer. With the confusion you generated among the average Italians - AstraZeneca yes, AstraZeneca no, the coverage of the variants yes, the coverage of the variants no - you have determined the uncertainty in many Italian citizens who are not vaccinating today. What's the science base? Can anyone in this House stand up and say that today he can certify with absolute certainty that those who are vaccinated are not able to infect? I ask myself another question: why do we not put the same firm will on vaccines even when it comes to treating this virus? Have we now convinced ourselves that there is no remedy for this virus, that there is no cure, that the only thing we should get used to is a monthly, half-yearly or annual dose of vaccine? Can anyone tell me? Is there anyone in this House who can scientifically answer these questions? If there were, it would not only make it clear to me that I am vaccinated, but also to those who so far have not decided to do so precisely because of the confusion that you have created in the citizens. And I don't want to believe that you're doing this to maintain an everlasting state of emergency that allows you to trample on every form of democracy in and out of these institutions. If there wasn't a state of emergency today, you wouldn't even exist. We would have already gone to vote, as millions of citizens vote in the most important cities in Italy. The only ones you do not vote for are us because you are afraid to go home; you are afraid of popular judgment and not because the opposition is doing false or distorted information. Your confusion is enough! The citizen is much more mature than many of you; the citizen must not preserve his own chair. The citizen outside judges on the basis of what he sees; and he sees a crowded majority that always follows the logic of the downside and who does everything to stay in this Chamber clinging to his chair. You are not doing Italy a favor; you are not saving the nation; you are saving only yourselves. It's called species self-preservation. You don't care much about the outsiders. You do not care if one in four will not be able to go to the restaurant, if you put the compulsory certificate. You don't care about anything; you don't care if someone can't have a green pass because they have diseases and they can't vaccinate. You don't care. All you care about is passing on your liberticidal message that one behaves the way you want or is a damned one. Gentlemen, it's not like that. You must provide the scientific tools to support your thesis, otherwise you are the gurus of nothingness and you do not legislate in a nation with nothingness, but with the scientificity of acts. This applies only to the method. I shouldn't even be intervening on the subject. I should spread a pitiful veil. The previous speaker is right. There is an amendment tabled by myself which devotes resources to skiing facilities and ski instructors because there has not yet been a euro. The implementing decrees are, in fact, still in the belly of the public administration. On that you must decree urgency and not to deliberate on nothing, to have a slogan and to make a tweet, to chase you on who is the best. Resources can't be seen. Businesses are asking us a lot more. According to Caritas data, 56 percent of the poor today - as Indro Montanelli said, "The left loves the poor so much that when he goes to power he increases them by number" - does not receive citizenship income to date. It is a measure that has failed and the amount of which could have been used to lower the labour costs of the enterprises. In fact, it is useless to say against dismissals if they do not then give the tools to those enterprises to work. The measure is bad and in absolute continuity with the measures we have always seen with Count I, II and with the Government Dragons. Therefore, you will never have our trust. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-350.ana.u13	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-350.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-350.ana.u15	MANCA (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, to accompany the country out of the crisis and, at the same time, to avert permanent damage to our productive fabric, together with the consolidation of the recovery in place, also to help, support and promote the exit from the crisis and the restart of our economy, are the fundamental cornerstones of the first and second support decree. They represent, for our country, not only in quantitative terms, but also for the political and cultural choice that lies at the basis of these decrees, the fundamental roots of the country's identity. The €76 billion is used to support businesses, to help VAT matches affected by pandemic difficulties, to support the public health system in crossing a very difficult and complex phase of our country's economic and social life. How difficult it has been to consolidate that right to health, which the resources we have allocated have helped to consolidate! The cornerstones of these decree-laws are the fundamental reasons for which we express not only the confirmation of trust in the Government, but also a sharing of method and merit, on which we have consolidated the fundamental actions, which have led the identity of the Democratic Party to go through this phase of pandemic crisis, through very important principles and values, which we must never forget: support for work, but at the same time the awareness that there was a cultural delay to be filled in the support and protection of a multitude of VAT matches, small and medium-sized activities, which had no protection and which put us before the dramatic theme of the need to find a solution also for the system of small and medium-sized enterprises, which contributes to the quality of life of our historic centres and our economy. It was therefore a fundamental job, which had its roots in not leaving people alone and in not leaving businesses alone. There is no possible conflict between capital and labour within these dynamics. There was the goal of uniting the country, in a great complex and difficult sacrifice, to get out of this pandemic crisis. Let us frankly say that we have used EUR 200 billion of net debt in 2020 and EUR 76 billion in 2021, we have brought the deficit-to-GDP ratio to 11.8% and, if we add to this the fundamental and important resources of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, two thirds of which are also net-debted, we are facing a crucial objective: to be aware that the sustainability of our debt passes through a new structural growth and through the removal of those structural problems that Italy has always had, in low growth. I say this because the reforms accompanying these measures are fundamental to addressing structural issues, which kept Italy among the countries with the lowest economic growth in the European dimension. Think of the theme of young people, of the very high rate of youth unemployment, think of the themes of birth, because today the fundamental theme will be to make available to the country and this new economic growth sufficient human resources to embrace the future. The ecological conversion of the economy and the environmental and digital transition, but at the same time the social transition, which we must build and plan, require a new effort on the training and promotion of skills. Already today we are not accustomed to a growth of 6%, because despite a fall in GDP of 9%, a growth of 6% is different from the fall of 9% and requires sufficient human resources and necessary to accompany this growth. I say this with great frankness, with regard to the Government first of all: let us put the processes of formation and education at the centre, because there is no future if we do not accompany a conversion of human resources aimed at being the protagonists of this new growth. We are condemned to increase structurally over 2 and a half points of GDP to make our debt sustainable. It is therefore clear - and I say this quite frankly - that we are also proud of the work done in the previous Government, and yet strengthened by this Government, in the construction of the new face of Europe. Next generation EU is one year old; it seems like a century, but in reality it is a year that we have faced a new face of Europe: a Europe that will prepare, through the Next generation EU, to make a reform of the Stability Pact structural, because the Europe of "less signs," linear cuts, austerity and exclusive attention to the economic dimension will finally be erased. In fact, there will inevitably be a need to make Next generation EU structural in order to promote higher growth structurally. It is clear that the rapid use of resources and, at the same time, the direction of resources towards the transition must be pursued with courage and without ambiguity: it can cost us more an ordinary maintenance of the existing than an investment that occupies and promotes new economy. We need to take control of production chains; we need to build a regulatory plan for economic development. A regulatory plan is needed, because Italy inevitably has to choose which are the fundamental guidelines of its economic development. If we seize this opportunity, we will have a new face of Europe, characterised by the reform of the Stability Pact, by the consolidation of Next generation EU, by a reform oriented towards economic sustainability, by new economic growth, by the energy, digital and social transition. The Stability Pact will have to promote investment, not block it, as it did before the pandemic. We feel like children of this new Europeanism: the Democratic Party has its roots there. I say this to the Senator friends of the League and also to the colleagues of the Brothers of Italy: there can be no ambiguity, there is no room for an ambiguous process in the relations between us and Europe. Italy's protagonism towards the European Union is indispensable to consolidate this project. There is no room to embrace Orbán structurally and politically, for an ambiguous photo or message. There is no room either to correct the limitations that may have been in communication, in the exercise of functions and also in the promotion of vaccination campaigns. No one denies that there have been limits, but for us - I say this clearly - we do not correct these limits by renouncing science, rejecting or opposing the indications of the scientific community. [[Applause]] On the contrary, it creates deadly harm: if we give ambiguous messages, we risk a possible and probable new pandemic wave among non-vacciners. It is unbearable that ambiguous messages about vaccination campaigns are issued from Parliament. A teacher, like a doctor, represents a fundamental part of the state's articulation; he is responsible for an educational community. It is not acceptable to think of reopening schools with ambiguous messages from the educational community towards the vaccination campaign. The vaccine, for what has been the work of Science, is indispensable to protect not only the individual, but above all the community within which he lives. My freedoms begin when even those who live near me are free to move, build and plan their own future. It doesn't take ambiguity. We therefore work quickly on the definition of the implementing decrees; I recommend speed also in their definition. We work to perfect the message of the vaccination campaign, because this is indispensable to consolidate the exit from this crisis. Let us do it together, without ambiguity and finally embrace the process of the new Europeanism that will make the Italian economy and society fairer, fairer and more supportive. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-350.ana.u16	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-350.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-350.ana.u18	Errani (Misto-Leu-Eco). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, representatives of the Government, the Free and Equal-Ecosolidal component of the Mixed Group will vote in favour of trust. This measure is also the result of the work done by the Senate, as some colleagues have already pointed out. With the agenda we have indicated a path that has given important answers with regard to agriculture, seasonal work, fixed costs and tourism, all issues that we had placed with great commitment. These are useful signals. I see that a controversy continues frankly a little' useless regarding the great news of the Dragons Government compared to the Count Government. I would like to remind all my colleagues that the decision to pass the Ateco codes and proceed towards the recognition of the damage actually suffered by the company had already been defined and set up with the previous Government. Today, progress is being made and we are satisfied with this. The measure contains important and positive choices, but also aspects that we do not share and that we consider a mistake to have introduced into the decree-law. I am thinking, for example, of the rule on reducing VAT to 10% for live calls. This is a truly incomprehensible choice from the environmental point of view and from the management of hunting. [[Comments.]] Comrade, we'll have a chance to discuss this. [[Comments.]] Yeah, we're talking about live calls. I thank the Government for accepting our agenda which calls for a review of this rule. Important work choices have been made (I am thinking of seasonal work), but unsolved issues remain. Colleagues and colleagues, I think we need a discussion between ourselves that goes beyond the choir "good or bad" and having the courage to see the problems. Otherwise, I do not understand what this House is for. In terms of redundancies, a step has been taken, but it is quite clear that it does not work. What we saw with the e-mail sent by the company in Tuscany to communicate the dismissal to employees, or even with the proposal - improper and unsustainable - of Confindustria a green pass as an innovative way to dismissal is really something wrong. Let it be clear that on the whole issue of work we must make a qualitative leap and that the issue of universalist reform of shock absorbers becomes even more urgent, which, together with the other strategic stake of training, is able to finally build active policies. From this point of view, the classic controversy about the income of citizenship frankly does not stand. Citizenship income has indeed been crucial in recent months. [[Applause]] Similarly, the ability, even with the emergency income, to respond to existing holes was crucial. This does not mean that there is no need for corrective action on citizenship income. But citizenship income is a choice that practically all European countries have made; I would like us to take note of it and to make a qualitative leap in the debate. Even the story that you don't find seasonal workers because there is citizenship income is nonsense and it's an instrumentalization (if I can say how I see it). There is a great wage issue in our country; without addressing this, we are not going anywhere. [[Applause]] I would like to say something very important to me: we have unified the two roofs of innovative medicines and anticancer medicines. It's a commercial intervention that doesn't solve the problem. There is an agenda that the Government has approved, presented by us, which calls for a new drug policy, a new governance. It is right to review the roofs, but this must be done within a system strategy; otherwise, the health system will not stand. Colleagues and colleagues, the new innovative medicines have costs that multiply not by 100 or 200 per cent, but by 1000 or 2000 per cent; either we build a new strategy or we go nowhere. There is already a document on governance, it is within the Health Pact: let's apply it now and let's review the pharmaceutical prontuary, where we pay for drugs 150 or 200 percent more than we should pay for. We have to make choices, and so I come to the last point I wanted to raise. The debate was complex. I understand that we are in a difficult situation and that we cannot recriminate abstractly on the role of Parliament and on the role of the Senate. But there is a problem of method and substance (I address the Government): you can also convert decrees-laws in a short time, but the space for a political confrontation must be there. Before setting the measure and during the approach of the measure, the Government makes us a proposal; we cannot find ourselves forced into a de facto monocameralism, which prevents us from making a contribution. It is a fundamental task of the Government to enhance the role and contributions that come from parliamentary groups. Enhancing this House is not an element of weakness, but an element of strength of the Government. In this regard, I would like to give some indications of work. Beyond the decrees - on which we will have to find a different path with the Minister for relations with Parliament - do we want to discuss the direction of the PNRR? It's time. I am concerned when I hear Ministers telling us that the European Commission's proposal on ecological transition is too fast. Which way are we going? What welfare reform are we implementing? How are the plans? In order to make the most of the House, there is no point in establishing that there is a quota distributed between the different groups. I don't care about that. However, come and explain to us how the projects are going and what direction we are taking, because the thing that I am concerned about - I have already said and I repeat - is that I would not want us to find ourselves, in a few months, at the first check on the projects, to verify that we are late and maybe cross at that point projects already made, out of any strategy. We all said that after the pandemic everything changes. I say we have to work because after the pandemic it really changes this country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-350.ana.u19	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-350.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-350.ana.u21	DAMIANI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, representative of the Government, fellow senators, as many of my colleagues have already said before, we are also voting in this House today for a measure crystallized in one branch of Parliament: a practice which could also have its reasons, but which certainly does not respect today the constitutional dictation, which provides for legislative activity at the end of the two chambers, in a game of absolute equality. A perfect bicameralism that, like it or not, is our rule today and defines our legislative activity. This is absolutely not an exception; since we are always calling for the centrality of Parliament in our speeches, I would not want it to be merely a rhetorical exercise in the end. [[Applause]] So, as all the parliamentary groups have done, we also strongly, but with reasons, call for the centrality of Parliament. We come to this measure, which - as has been mentioned - was born in this House on the basis of the first decree of support, with agendas for the day that the whole majority supported in this House. Therefore, the decree-law-supports- bis bases its approach precisely on the political address that the Senate has given. It is a powerful, important measure, which is born with a base of 40 billion and 77 articles; then, in the parliamentary work that was done in the House, we find other resources and becomes a measure of 43 billion, increasing also the number of articles and the amount of interventions planned. As always, consistent with what we did when we were in opposition, even today that we are in the majority, being precisely a coherent political force, we emphasize a painful note, that of the implementing decrees. We're in emergency. We need to be quick in our measurements. [[Applause]] So, Undersecretary, I invite you and the Government to implement immediately all the implementing decrees that exist, because you have to get to the people, at this particular moment of emergency, as quickly as possible. It is a decree that finds its cover of 40 billion, with the last vote expressed by Parliament, as a budgetary deviation: a real financial maneuver. The changes to the House have absolutely improved the measure, they have strengthened it, especially on economic measures, which today must have a strong social and economic impact, because we all know how the pandemic led to a serious crisis this year. A restart that - we all know - is not easy; the economic data tell us, Istat tells us as well: there are entire industrial sectors that are still struggling to restart. We therefore need to help and support and it is difficult at this time to return to the economic situation prior to Covid-19. However, we are satisfied with the work that we have done before with the decree-law supports, today with the decree-law supports- bis, and we claim many of the measures that have been inserted, also because we have marked, with respect to the past, a remarkable change of pace. Today we have moved from the strategy of restorative to the strategy of support. [[Applause]] We have removed the ATECO codes, which disgruntled everyone, just as we have eliminated so many forms of welfare that were of no use and we have moved to the lost fund, to investments: all lines of direction that Forza Italia has dictated in the various measures. I would like to mention a few figures in order to keep track of them in my speech. The Decree-Law support- bis consists of nine Securities, of which the two main ones are Support to the enterprises, the economy and the reduction of the fixed costs and measures for the access to the credit and the liquidity of the enterprises. There are also measures for health and territorial authorities: important are the aid that we are bringing to all public administrations, to the municipalities, to our mayors who are at the forefront. [[Applause]] There are also measures for young people, for school, for research, for culture and for agriculture, which is also an important issue for us. Also in this measure support is provided for companies: 15 billion, of which 11.4 billion lost; 1.8 billion for tax credit; 1.2 billion for the internationalization of enterprises; 600 million euro for the exemption from Tari [[Applause]] , because this was also a shame and today we finally, with the activities closed, give refreshment to those exhibitors, to those commercial activities that paid the Tari unjustly. Access to credit and liquidity for businesses is also provided for: EUR 9 billion to secure access to credit, support liquidity and boost capitalization. The moratorium on loans was extended to 31 December 2021. These are, therefore, many important measures that we in Forza Italia have decided to take, working, as we have said, also in synergy with the Group of the European People's Party in the House, which has adopted a number of amendments. In this very Chamber, although the measure was crystallised, we have, however, focused on two issues. I would therefore urge you, Mr Secretary, to follow up some of the agendas which have been accepted. Two, in particular, are the ones on which as Forza Italia I dwell. The first concerns the increase in raw materials, which is putting an important sector such as the construction sector in difficulty. [[Applause]] , because we must follow the measure of the "superbonus." The second agenda, which I am personally supporting with my colleague Massimo Ferro, is the one concerning the rating of banks: even if it is a European matter, the government must commit itself to this, because many banks today need credit, but - alas - the rating during this period of Covid has worsened. [[Applause]] We must therefore ensure that the credit rating for access to credit is the one prior to the Covid period. These are two important agendas, with commitments that I put back to you, Mr. Undersecretary. We all know what has been the devastating impact of the pandemic on the Italian economic system, which is made up of small and medium-sized enterprises, which cannot resist so much independently. That is why support, support for economic activities, which we have not missed. We also had a direct interview with the production categories, with the professionals, with VAT matches. We have always listened to them; we have taken and acquired their proposals and have turned them into measures, because we have a direct connection with companies. Lost funds, injections of liquidity: all economic activities that, as we said, serve today to support our economy, which is certainly strong, but - alas - it can become fragile at any moment, because it is made up of small and medium-sized enterprises. We hope that, as soon as possible, the economy will be able to re-establish itself, reopen and walk, thus restoring the dignity of work and income to these activities. The data are certainly comforting. In 2020 it had a significant loss of GDP, but the economic indicators speak to us today of an important growth, which we must help and accompany. There is therefore a genuine prospect of an important boost in gross domestic product, and therefore an economic recovery. Unfortunately, however, there are still many variables, such as those related to the effectiveness of the vaccine plan. We must therefore insist on vaccines, we must vaccinate the entire Italian population. [[Applause]] It's important. We have - alas - the spectre of a new wave and variations, unfortunately still unknown, which hovers in front of us. So we still have to fight, the battle is not over at all and we cannot lower our guard at this particular moment. [[Applause]] We must not give up the grip, but we must be ready - and I appeal to the Government - to prepare all those measures that today anticipate the emergency that can arise. It's important to be ready. That is why we must not give up, but be timely and incisive, in an attempt to anticipate the emergency and not to chase it, as it had happened in the past. [[Applause]] Here is the commitment of Forza Italia in the Government, with a remarkable change of pace on many issues, and the decree-law supports and the decree-law supports- bis are the proven proof of this. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-350.ana.u22	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-350.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-350.ana.u24	TOSATO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, the League fully recognizes this measure. This is more than EUR 40 billion in support of investments, businesses, VAT consignments, households, workers, health, municipalities and local authorities. For us it represents a real change of pace and approach with respect to the decrees-restorations of the previous Government. First of all, there is no waste, no questionable choices. All the opposition has legitimately criticized the method, namely that this House could not amend the provision; these are certainly important criticisms, but not a criticism has been made regarding the rules contained in this decree-law, demonstrating that there has been a change of pace and no funds have been allocated in questionable directions, as happened in the past for scooters, wheelchairs, bonuses, subsidies. [[Applause]] This represents a change of which the League has become the protagonist. Each measure has been directed to the support of those who have suffered the most severe damage of the pandemic and to the revival of our economy. The criteria have changed: compared to the decrees of the Count Government, the Ateco codes have no longer been used - some yes and some no - to provide support. At last we have been based on the decrease of the turnover, as it has been demanded several times from the League when it was to the opposition, and it has been used as criterion the loss of the fixed costs of exercise. This is the contribution that the League has made to this measure and to the change of pace of this Government. In addition, unlike the decree-laws of the previous Government, the provision helps the forgotten. Support has been provided for VAT, autonomous matches and the tourism sector (hotels, restaurants, bars), the wedding industry, national fairs, spas, ski lifts, travel agencies, tourist buses, tourist guides: all sectors that had been neglected and neglected in previous decrees. We have not forgotten the third sector, the IPAB (Public Assistance and Charity Institute), non-self-sufficiency and not even farmers, affected by frost, floods and natural disasters. We have finally established a criterion of justice for the owners of rented properties. We have protected those who have suffered the eviction blockade, who will not have to pay the IMU for 2021 thanks to the amendment of the League to the Chamber of Deputies. [[Applause]] We have protected families, businesses, self-employed workers, who are not able to provide for all the tax burdens and obligations, which have been postponed (but in any case we believe that sooner or later we will have to speak seriously in these classrooms of tax peace and tax reform). We protected them because it was the State that prevented them from working and now it cannot ask them to pay what they cannot pay. We must make a serious reflection if today there are still conditions in this country to do business, to be a self-employed person, to open a VAT number. The Government must give these answers and the League will insist until the end of this mandate that serious action be taken. [[Applause]] We are convinced that a good job has been done, a good job. The decree-law under consideration, its contents, its approach, the correctives approved by the Chamber fully justify the League's choice to support this Government. If the League had decided to stand comfortably in opposition without risking, without assuming its responsibilities, remaining watching, criticizing what the other political forces did or did not do, many of the useful and necessary norms contained in this decree-law would not have found room and would not have found approval from the parliamentary classrooms [[Applause]] In this dramatic phase for our country it is the duty of the League to ensure its contribution to improve, to modify, to correct the measures (and also to criticize them when necessary) adopted by the Government. We are trying every day and we are succeeding, the measure under discussion gives concrete testimony. The majority that supports the government is not political, as is evident to all. It was born in a legislature in which no party had the numbers to govern autonomously; the electoral laws of Municipalities and Regions guarantee the governability, the electoral law of political consultations does not do so. This choice - because of its choice - is the real cause of the ungovernability of our country and is not a responsibility of the League. The pandemic and its dramatic consequences do not allow us to be unarmed spectators. This is the legitimate choice of others, not ours. [[Applause]] The decree-law in question pays us full compensation for our decision: it concretely helps families, workers, businesses, our community, our society to stand, to hold and even to move forward. Without the League to the Government many of the choices and norms contained in this provision would not have found room, would not have found an answer, would not have been approved. However, let us make a recommendation to the Government that we continue to support: it is not enough to allocate the resources, it is necessary to provide them quickly. There is a delay in the approval of the implementing decrees; we demand that there be effective intervention, diligent, a directional cabin because the citizens cannot wait. We have done our part. It is now up to the Government to actually allocate the resources that Parliament has approved. In this measure we fully recognize ourselves, also thanks to the corrections and modifications made by the House. For these reasons the League Group will vote in favour of the decree-law support- bis and renew its confidence in the Government. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-350.ana.u25	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-350.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-350.ana.u27	SANTILLO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, in announcing the vote in favour of Movimento 5 Stars to the question of confidence in the measure under consideration, I would like to remind all the members of this House that we are here today to take another step forward to overcome this difficult emergency. The 45 billion of the decree-law supports- bis are a further piece of the mosaic much more complex and full of measures largely due to the great effort made by the previous Government Count II, thanks to the support of the Movimento 5 Stars. Today we realize what we have already anticipated with the previous decree-law supports, because with this measure we strongly support companies, we pay attention to the weakest, we support workers and families and we also help over 1,000 municipalities. It is true, Mr President, that perhaps after a year it would not even make sense to repeat it, but let's still say that it is wrong and misleading to think about the resources allocated in every measure to say whether it is okay or not, because those resources will never be enough for everyone's needs; what matters, however, is a path that was born in March 2020 with the decree-law care Italy and of which at least three elements must be kept in mind. The first element is the economic one: we are talking about more than 200 billion euros put into play by nine economic measures in 2020, by last year's budget law and by the two decree-laws support and support- bis of 2021. Then there are the 235 billion of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan and the National Complementary Fund that will be made available for the next six years. Finally, perhaps the most important element: the gradual reopening of activities and the economic chain. This, yes, will allow the country to resume financially. Today, we must strongly reiterate our support for companies. How do we have to do this? There are 15 billion in the measure which is earmarked for non-refund aid to enterprises and, of these, 8 billion are automatically allocated to companies which had already received the non-refund contribution under the previous measure. If that were not enough, I would like to remind my colleague who preceded me that the same Movimento 5 Stars was agreed in overcoming also the logic of turnover after that of the Ateco codes. How did we do it? During this difficult period, reference will be made to the loss of profit from the companies, also taking into account the actual costs incurred by them. A total of 4 billion are devoted to this sector on an optional basis. Then there are entrepreneurs, like Raffaele, a young Neapolitan entrepreneur in the construction sector, who complain that the reference to ascertain the loss of turnover with Covid should not be the beginning of the year and, therefore, January 2020, but the period after the arrival of Covid. Indeed, as of April 2020, a total of EUR 3 billion is dedicated to these entrepreneurs. Unfortunately, there are those who are still in great suffering during this period, perhaps because they did not have a job before Covid and perhaps also because they did not have a grandfather or a parent who could give them money to eat. The meeting with a young mother, with a child to be raised and with studies to be completed, who thanked us for the support he had from the country, from Italy, at such a difficult time, made me proud. [[Applause]] Unfortunately, however, ladies and gentlemen, there are people who cannot even access citizenship income because they not only have no parents or someone who can help them, but because they may have had a relative from whom they inherited a home and therefore no longer have access requirements. How do you do that? We thought about these people when we renewed our emergency income by another four months. And to think that today there are those who want to eliminate the income of citizenship [[Applause]] , erecting himself as the supreme judge of social justice. Not to mention those who have lived in politics for a quarter of a century - I could call them addicts - who allow themselves to spit on the poor people, coming to say that the income of citizenship is methadone and those who perceive it as an addict. [[Comments. Applause]] Do you realize what you're saying? What would have happened at this time if there had been no citizenship income? Then we, today more than ever, more than ever before, as Movimento 5 Stars must reiterate that the income of citizenship is touched, but it is done to improve and complete it. But there is one thing to say: this step forward is not painless, it is costing especially to a number of colleagues, who do not find satisfaction in the content of the measure. However, it is because of our strong sense of responsibility that, at such a critical moment for the country and complicated for the economy, health care, the family and businesses, we considered the positive aspects of the decree-law supports -a greater than the negative ones. That is why we are trusting the government. Attention, however, and here I appeal to the Government and other political forces, so that the next measures will be even wider and more shared on the issues to be dealt with. I call on all of you to bear that responsibility, even those in this difficult time. [[Applause]] for our country, rather than thinking about solving problems, think about nominations in Puglia or throw dark shadows on the Finance Guard. And here goes our thanks, instead, to all the financiers and to the Forces of the order for the precious work they carry out daily, providing service with commitment and dedication. [[Applause]] As spokesperson for so many Members who ask me in the corridors, my question is: doesn't Mr Durigon see the need to come to this House to clarify his position? [[Applause]] We want to know what happened; if you have nothing to hide, come and tell us: we will be happy to listen to him. Colleagues, it is useless to deny it, we are politically very different and we are happy to be. We are also profoundly distant on very important issues, and we are happy about this too; however, we would like to go on in a path of sharing, following a path that we have already traced, just when we converted this decree-law into law in the House. I am referring in particular to the amendment voted by all political forces - Italy Viva excluding - which provides for the compensation of prices for raw materials in public works. It is worth remembering that the tax credit certification, the transfer of tax credit and the circulation of tax credit introduced in May 2020 with the 110% superbonus made Italy the first European economy to reach the levels of construction production even in the pre-Covid period: the only one in Europe. [[Applause]] No one else has managed to achieve production levels of pre-Covid constructions, only Italy. [[Applause]] A lot of work, however, has generated something unexpected, that is the uncontrolled increase of some prices of building materials for construction in public works. So we were good, all together, to listen to the companies, who highlighted this problem, and to give an answer. How did we do that? We have allocated the sums that are within the economic frameworks of any intervention to unforeseen and reduced auctions, including unbounded provisions, to review rising prices. As if that were not enough, we have provided for the establishment of a fund of EUR 100 million at the Ministry of Infrastructure and sustainable mobility for price adjustment. I am going to touch on the last point, ladies and gentlemen, by appealing to you for a sense of responsibility precisely with regard to the superbonus: everyone talks about it and everyone wants it, from hotels to schools and hospitals; they want it everywhere, but then, in fact, when we present ourselves in parliamentary work, there are very few people working on this subject. We must work together to ensure that the superbonus deadline is extended to at least 2023. [[Applause),]] In line with President Draghi's statement in his address to the Houses. Only if the deadline becomes after 2023, can we put an end to the financial speculative wave generated by the current deadline, so that companies can have a time horizon ahead of them that allows them to better manage and organize the work, generate work at such a difficult time and, above all, do the work well. Mr President, at a time of such great difficulty, when we need to join forces in order to overcome this heavy emergency and to get Italian citizens and businesses out of the suffering in which they live, on behalf of the Movimento 5 Stars, I am voting in favour of confidence in this measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-350.ana.u28	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-350.ana.u29	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-350.ana.u30	CRUCIOLI (Misto-l'A.c'è-LPC). Mr President, with the decree-law before us, the Government is putting yet another piece into Parliament's annihilation. Such a comprehensive and important measure arrived in the House of this branch of Parliament three days ago; it landed in the Finance Committee and the Budget Commission with an opinion prepared and read the day before yesterday and voted immediately afterwards. Go and read the reports of the Commissions: there is no one, transversally, who has not complained about the objective impossibility of studying and reading it. We didn't touch the ball. None of the political forces - not even by a majority - was able to discuss the measure. We have gone even further, however, this time. Parliament had even expressed itself almost unanimously, or in any case the majority had spoken to preserve the cashback measures and instead the government has pulled straight, in a sense contrary to the one in which the Senate had expressed itself, and introduced the suspension of the cashback in the decree- bis-supports. Not only can we not discuss this, but, even when we discuss it, we are not considered, we are irrelevant. There was not the slightest discussion, for example, about very important measures such as the extension of the release of redundancies, a subject on which we can have different opinions, but on which we will have to discuss. We are not discussing more than anything, not even fundamental issues such as green passes or issues that touch fundamental freedoms. You ask us for trust, but we cannot give it to this Government, because we do not trust how it is spending citizens' money, because it is not protecting health and it is destroying democracy in Italy, going to touch the fundamental rights of individuals in the absence of discussion of the Senate. The Alternative There will vote no to trust the Government Dragons on the decree support- bis. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-350.ana.u31	We shall therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-350.ana.u32	I refer to the vote on the single article of the bill n. 2320, of conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law 25 May 2021, n. 73, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the matter of trust will take place by roll-call vote. Each senator will be able to vote exclusively from his place, declaring his/her vote. I remember that it is necessary to avoid gatherings at the center of the hemicycle. I draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Pergreffi is drawn by lot.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Pergreffi. Tosato, secretary, makes the appeal. (In the course of voting, they take over the Presidency - 11.30 a.m. - and then take over the presidency - at 11.30 a.m.) - 11.40 a.m. -). PRESIDENT. - The vote is closed. I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of the sole article of the bill n. 2320, of conversion into law, with amendments, of the decree-law 25 May 2021, n. 73, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust: [[Senators present 242 Senators voting 242 Majority 121 Favorable 213 Contrars 28 Absent 1]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). It therefore precludes all amendments and agendas relating to the text of Decree-Law No 73. I suspend the session, which will resume at 3 p.m. with the question time. (The sitting was suspended at 11.41 a.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-350.ana.u33	The next item is the immediate question time (so-called question time) under Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, which will be answered by the Minister for the Interior, the Minister for Defence and the Minister for Labour and Social Policy. I call on the speakers to ensure strict respect for time, given the current live television. Senator Mirabelli has the right to explain the question 3-02658 on public order profiles related to the resumption of executions of eviction procedures, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-350.ana.u34	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as we all know, the Government has decided - in my view, quite rightly - to extend the suspension of the execution of evictions until 31 December 2021, excluding those made enforceable substantially before the pandemic. This is an important step: since 1 July 80 000 families have been affected by a measure that stipulates that evictions can be carried out. It seemed important to confront the Government to understand what measures can be taken to ensure that this amount of evictions, which, if carried out all quickly, would involve a real social emergency, with its tensions, can be diluted over time and manage, perhaps by case considering the interests and conditions of both the owners and the people who must be evicted. We consider it desirable to encourage coordination between the different institutions, which certainly prefectures can do better than any other subject, to ensure that conditions can be created not only for evictions to be carried out progressively, contingent the times, but above all for no one to remain in the street and for solutions to be created for those who are evicted.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-350.ana.u35	The Minister for the Interior, Mr Lamorgese, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-350.ana.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you first that Article 6 of Decree-Law No 102 of 2013 established a fund at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport for the unharmed dying tenants. On July 8, the Ministry of Infrastructure, following agreements in a unified conference, has prepared for the subsequent signature of the Minister of Economy the decrees of repartition of the funds of support to the leases for an amount of 260 million euros for the year 2021. This provision has also provided for the involvement of prefectures, through the adoption of measures for the planned graduation of the intervention of the public force in the execution of eviction measures. Also in relation to the situations of greater criticality on the territory, in the awareness that in many cases the families object of the executive procedures of eviction are in conditions of serious economic and social discomfort, some prefectures have already activated tables of confrontation involving the various institutionally competent actors: the Regions, the Municipalities, the judicial authority, the agencies of management of the social building and the representative organizations of the owners and the tenants of the real estate. In some cases, a protocol of understanding with the institutional partners was signed precisely to harmonise and supplement the interventions, in particular those planned on the unblamable morosity in terms of the allocation of available resources, the number of housing to be allocated in emergency to evicted persons, and the procedures to be implemented against families affected by eviction. In the context of the urgent measures of food solidarity and support, with my decree of 24 June last, in agreement with the Minister of Economy and Finance, we shared the fund of 500 million euros for the year 2021, provided for in Article 53 of Decree-Law No 73 of 2021, aimed at the adoption by the municipalities of urgent measures of food solidarity and support to families for the payment of rents and domestic utilities in relation precisely to the continuation of the emergency. In conclusion, I assure you that the prefects, continuing in the direction outlined since April 2020, following my directive aimed at intercepting signs of social distress, including housing, will continue to carry out every useful initiative, including through the signing of new protocols or the revisiting of existing ones, for an adequate action to balance interests to protect the weakest.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-350.ana.u37	I give the floor to Senator Mirabelli to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-350.ana.u38	Mr President, I thank the Minister. I am absolutely satisfied with the answer and with the news that funds have been allocated for the blameless morosity, which is an important thing. It seems to me that the tables are opening - the Minister confirms to me that there is a government directive - to manage this difficult phase. I believe that the sensitivity shown deserves an appreciation for the answer.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-350.ana.u39	Senator Bonino has the right to explain the question 0-32728 on the progress of the procedure for the regularization of foreign workers, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-350.ana.u40	Mr President, Minister, together with Mrs De Petris, we have tabled a question on whether or not Decree-Law No 34 of 2020 has been applied and, therefore, more than a year has passed. As you will recall, Madam Minister, the decree concerned certain categories, such as farm workers and caregivers, leaving out construction workers and others. We discussed this last year. Demands have reached a total of 207,000. The distress and the bewilderment lie in the fact that to date - indeed, as he has specified, the data are of a few days ago - the completed questions, gone to good or not, were 45,000. The question only asks you to confirm the data, because those we have taken from the Ministry's website are more discomfortable. For example, in Rome on 20 May, out of a total of 16,000 applications received, only two practices reached the final stage; in Milan, out of 26,000, no more than 400. In my opinion, the poor and not exciting application, due - I imagine - to the reasons that it will explain, is not a good wish for the new season that opens for farmers. I leave aside the facts of the news, the caporalate and other similar aspects, because that is not the point of the question, but we hope that we will - hopefully he will tell us - be able to speed up these practices; otherwise, we risk having laws that do not apply and overlap with others. Finally, I am glad that the Minister of Defence is here, because I wanted to tell him that there will be a "bordello" from Afghanistan, and it does not take Metternich to understand it. I know that in Table 7 you have already planned to take away all the Afghans who helped us and - I hope so - their families, and not for the whim to bring them into this italian nightmare, but because, with the advance of the Taliban, they will be immediately accused of collaborationism. Apart from them, if that is the case, that is, if Afghanistan comes back to the Taliban, and apart from the issues related to terrorism, which I would ask you to monitor seriously, many, many Afghans will come out.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-350.ana.u41	I invite you to conclude, Senator Bonino.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-350.ana.u42	BONINO (Misto-+Eu-Az). Yes, Mr. President. As the Afghan community is already the third largest in Italy, the pull factor, as you know, will bring them back together. So I wanted to point it out, so as not to be surprised in the future, who knows when. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-350.ana.u43	The Minister for the Interior, Mr Lamorgese, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-350.ana.u44	Mr President, it must be pointed out first of all that the emerging procedures encountered, above all at the beginning, various difficulties and among them certainly the complexity of the competition for the identification of the administration society of temporary workers in support of the one-stop shops, the interweaving of skills between different administrations - prefectures, police officers, labour inspectorates, INPS - and the technical impossibility of managing the procedure exclusively by electronic means. Of course, on all these causes, it also weighed the effect of the pandemic, which forced peripheral structures to reduce appointments with users. This situation helps to explain the reasons why some important provincial realities, burdened by a greater workload, including Milan, Rome and Naples, still show a backwardness in the performance of the requests, which can be gradually absorbed thanks to the significant contribution of the 750 temporary workers, in service only since March, following the recruitment procedures carried out by the assignee company of the contract. This quota will soon be increased with another 50 units. With regard to the two separate administrative procedures, the one-stop shops for immigration to the prefectures and the police, the framework on a national basis is as follows: In relation to the first proceeding, a total of 207,870 applications were submitted. Of these, to date, have been positively defined, at the favourable outcome of the technical investigation carried out, 45,173 requests, with the delivery to the persons concerned of the forms for the issue of residence permits, of which 39,292 for domestic work and assistance to the person and 5,881 for employed work. Compared to the total of more than 45,000 applications, those relating to the issue of leave for waiting employment, i.e. those who do not have an employer, were 4.687, of which 4.439 related to domestic work and 248 to employed work. I would point out that of the same stock of applications 4,890 were rejected, while the waivers were 1,331. From the above picture it follows that the one-stop shops have hesitated in a total of 51,394 practices. In relation to the less complex procedure to be initiated directly at the Courts, I inform you that 9.918 residence permits are issued compared to 11,335 applications submitted. Finally, I would like to point out that some prefectures, to date, have still exceeded 70% of the applications and 80% of those submitted for employment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator De Petris has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-350.ana.u45	Mr President, I would also like to thank the Minister for the updating of the data, which, alas, are not very far from what we mentioned in our question. Of course, I am delighted to learn that there will be an increase in strength in order to be able to dispose of and examine all the questions. Also because, Minister, you know better than I that these people who are waiting and have also applied for regularization and sanatorium do not today have the health card, not even temporary (and you understand well what this means for domestic work and caregivers), and almost no one has had the opportunity to vaccinate. Open nights have also been made in Rome to get her access to vaccination, but we are still in a situation, in my opinion, not manageable. I hope there will be a strong determination from the Ministry to conclude and examine all the practices, in order to find a definition that will allow these people and everyone to stay in health security, since the pandemic does not pass and comes back all the time. All the more so, I think it would be truly incredible if, because of the bureaucratic delays in implementing the law, we could not guarantee their safety and security.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-350.ana.u46	Senator Candiani has the right to explain the question 0-32731 on the distribution to the Forces of the order of electrical impulse safety devices, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-350.ana.u47	Mr President, Minister, let us return to an issue that is particularly important to us, because we believe that making available to our Taser Force agents is an opportunity to ensure greater security and, given a situation of danger that can occur, also to protect the same agents. We know that this instrument has followed a particularly complex path in its commissioning. We had worked in a very determined way with his predecessor, Matteo Salvini, to be made available to our forces of order and we know that in recent months the supply of 4.482 electric impulse guns has been awarded. Now it's about making them quickly available to our Forces of Order. Minister, in the last few days and weeks there have been cases (I am thinking of the last, the Rome Termini station) in which the agent, if he had had this instrument at his disposal, could certainly have avoided problems for himself and put the attacker in a position not to harm. There is no doubt that such an instrument, which is already in service and available to other forces of order in other countries, can be of great use and effectiveness also by us. In our opinion, it is also necessary to make available to local police officers - on this we insist very much and we want to know his opinion and what the Ministry is doing - so that all the tools available throughout the territory can be better used to guarantee safety and safety both to citizens and our uniformed security guardians. Minister, we therefore ask you to know what procedures you are following and, above all, whether, through the State-Regions Conference, those costs related to the costs to be borne by the local authorities have been overcome. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-350.ana.u48	The Minister for the Interior, Mr Lamorgese, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-350.ana.u49	Mr President, as the honourable Member pointed out, it should be pointed out that the procedure for acquiring the type of weapon taser was preceded by an experimental phase which was prepared for precautionary reasons. I would remind you that on 16 June 2020, by my measure, in the more definition of the process of adoption of the decree of the President of the Republic n. 359, the staff of the State Police performing police functions was authorised to employ it for institutional tasks, provided that it does not exceed the offensive potential of the police forces. However, during the tendering phase, it was found that the necessary safety standards were missing and this led to a slowing down of the procedure. On 7 July 2021, after all investigations, the contract was concluded for the total supply of 4,482 electric impulse weapons, corresponding to the aggregate needs of State Police, Carabinieri and Finance Guard. After the one hundred and twenty days provided by the acts of competition for the realization of the supply and the outcome of the final verification of conformity, the weapons with the related accessories will be delivered to the Police Forces. With regard to the evaluation by the Government of the opportunity to equip also the agents of the municipal police of this weapon, it should be remembered that Article 19 of Decree-Law No 113 allows, under certain conditions, the municipalities provincial capitals, as well as those with a population of more than 100,000 inhabitants, to equip two units of staff of the local police experimentally tasers, with the qualification of public security agent. The rules provide for the obligation for municipalities to issue a special regulation, in accordance with the general guidelines on staff training and health protection, to be adopted following agreement to be agreed at the unified conference. A draft of the above-mentioned general guidelines has already been submitted for consideration by the Unified Conference at a first meeting on 29 October 2019, following which some additions have been introduced. More recently, at the request of the ANCI, the examination of the aforementioned guidelines has been postponed to a next technical meeting, in order to verify with the Ministry of Health the possibility, for the Regions and the Municipalities, to sign specific conventions with the National Health Service, aimed at requesting medical personnel for the training modules in the field of health and first aid provided by the guidelines for the staff of the local police. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Candiani has the right to speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-350.ana.u50	Mr Minister, we are pleased to hear from you that everything has been going in the direction we have long wanted, that is to distribute and put into operation, at the disposal of our forces of order, such an instrument of defence (because we must talk about this). However, its description does not give a completely satisfactory picture of the red tape. There is no doubt that his commitment and that of the Ministry go in the direction we want; it is also true that we must be much more determined in making available - as I said - instruments of defence. Let us be careful: having at the disposal of our police agents, including the local police, an instrument such as the taser is certainly a stronger deterrent to an attacker, compared to the ability that the police agent can have to intervene having at his disposal the gun, which is instead an instrument capable of offending and which can lead - as we know - also to tragic conclusions. Knowing that, on the other hand, there is a police officer who has at his disposal an instrument that basically makes the attacker no longer able to attack is also a strong deterrent and allows, in a situation such as the one we are living (even as far as the pandemic is concerned), to keep him at a proper distance. If this instrument is quickly distributed to our municipalities and municipalities, we will be sure to have better protected the safety and safety of our police and local police officers. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-350.ana.u51	Senator Rauti has the faculty to illustrate the question 0-32730 on the logistic basis of the Air Force in the United Arab Emirates, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-350.ana.u52	Mr President, Minister, on 2 July last, we were forced to leave the air force base of Al Minhad, in the United Arab Emirates, operating since 2000-2002. This is a basis that has always been necessary for the support of our missions in Afghanistan (just ended) and in the Horn of Africa (especially Somalia), but also those in Kuwait and Iraq. That base has always assured an operating and logistic support, also for its strategic position more in general in the Middle East chessboard, and has always guaranteed the transport of personnel and means for our national contingents engaged precisely in the missions. It is therefore, I believe, of all evidence the gravity of the relapse of this eviction on the operational, logistic, tactical and strategic aspects. It is, Minister, a geopolitical area of fundamental importance, being the emiratin base, as you will know, the only one able to support the Italian missions in the area. We also add that this bullying determination of the emirate government appears to be a retaliation, following some decisions of the government protempore Conte II, that is, to revoke certain orders and supplies of a military nature. I do not enter into this argument that does not compete with the Defense, but it is evident - and this also concerns it - that there is a situation of crisis and diplomatic and political tension between our country and the Arab Emirates. This could also compromise our participation with sea patrol in the Strait of Ormuz, which needs that area as a base. Brothers of Italy asks to know basically three questions. In the meantime, we would like to know if you do not believe that this matter has seriously damaged the image of Italy at international level. We would like to know the fate of part of the contingent, which has remained outside the base, but which is still in Abu Dhabi, and what its fate will be: I think it is 20 units. The third and last point, not irrelevant, concerns the fate and destiny of the instruments and materials belonging to the Italian Defense and if it is assumed in this an erarial damage to the Italian State, as they can hardly be recovered. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Defence, Mr Guerini, has the right to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-350.ana.u53	Mr President, on the question put by the honourable Member, as you know, the emiratine authorities have recently communicated, through the military officer of Abu Dhabi, the will not to extend the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between the general command of the armed forces of the United Arab Emirates and the Italian Defense. In this respect, the operational command of interforce summits has ordered the immediate execution of the risking of all personnel, aircraft and material present in the Forward Logistic air base of Al Minhad, repositioning part of the device in Kuwait. In particular, of the 142 military under the base, 79 were repatriated, 40 were risked in Kuwait, to ensure emergency health evacuation capacity and tactical transport, while 23 remained under the command of the Transitional Coordination Office, located in Dubai with functions of removal core. In particular, this office is carrying out the tasks of closing down slopes of an administrative accounting nature, including the procedures for releasing the areas in use to the national quota at Al Minhad airport. Despite the limited notice received by the emiratine authorities, it was technically possible to repatriate and move sensitive materials, equipment, vehicles and aircraft. In particular, vehicles, generating sets, communication systems, armament, sanitary equipment, vehicle spare parts and flight line equipment and maintenance requirements have been repositioned at the Al Salem Seat in Kuwait. With regard to the hangar maintenance, prefabricated modules, housing, canteens and recreational areas, as well as furnishings, the definition of technical and administrative procedures for the correct identification of the intended use is still in place, since it has not been technically possible to disassembly and return in view of the short time available. The consequences of the emiratin decision on the return activity of the Italian contingent from Afghanistan have been fully overcome, thanks to the ability of the operational command of summit interforces to adapt the plan of retreat to the new situation, using alternative structures without being delayed. As I have already had the opportunity to say during my hearing last July 7 in the Foreign and Defence Quadrangular Commission, the Defense looks carefully at the ongoing diplomatic actions, for the resumption of dialogue and the recomposition of positive relations with what remains an important partner for our country. These assessments and such attention are accompanied by positive impressions also in relation to the dialogue I had with my fellow emiratino. Having said that, I do not believe that this affair has in any way damaged the image of the Italian Armed Forces, also because of the great credibility, unanimously recognized, to our women and our men in uniform engaged in their highly appreciated service in Italy and abroad. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Rauti has the right to intervene in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-350.ana.u54	Mr Minister, unfortunately we are totally dissatisfied with the answer because, for what we have heard, we already knew a lot and it has also been the subject of some of our questions, which have been left unanswered. Above all, however, we are disappointed by what we have not heard, namely the fact that the Government has never spent a word of appreciation for the contingent that, in less than two weeks, had to dismantle an entire base like that of Al Minhad, as well as defending and saving our materials. With regard to materials, it is astonishing to hear the hypothesis of repositioning in Kuwait, when we all know that the current base in Kuwait, which we currently use, does not have the characteristics, neither logistical nor technical to be an airport, nor an equivalent base. It therefore seems difficult to imagine that structures such as hangar, canteen or gym - we are talking about 10 million euros of materials - can all be placed in a much smaller base. Again, it is astonishing to hear that this has not damaged our image. Mr. Minister, I'm sorry, it's not your fault, but Italy has suffered a loud noise from this story - and because it's retaliation and because it's a bully - and I don't think I've read or heard a voice that has defended the prestige of the nation, the authority of international missions and the national interest. It seems to me that there is the will to lay out a cloak of silence, because we have lost, not only the base, but, let me say, also the face. That is what we have lost internationally, Minister. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-350.ana.u55	Senator Gasparri has the right to explain the question 0-32729 on the initiatives for the commemoration of the centenary of the unknown Milite, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-350.ana.u56	Mr President, on behalf of the whole Group and Mr Bernini, I would like to take this opportunity to question Mr Guerini. The monument of the Unknown Milite is dedicated to the 651,000 Italian fallen of the First World War, in particular to those of whom it was not possible to reach identification, in order to dedicate to them a worthy burial and recognition of all honors. In the coming date of 4 November 2021 will be the centenary of the unknown Milite, a century after certain events, in a very different context, in a Europe where the values of peace and coexistence are affirmed and I believe it is necessary to remember this event in a proper way. On the occasion of such an important anniversary in moral and educational terms, as underlined also by the President of the Republic in his speech at the end of the year and as repeated several times by the Minister of Defence himself during the intervention on the programmatic lines of the Ministry, the memory and awareness of our national identity help us to build the future. On 7 July the Chamber of Deputies took care of this occasion, voting unanimously on a motion to underline the importance of the centenary of the transfer of the unknown Milite to the Altar of the Homeland. The train journey involved and excited the whole of Italy, who accompanied him along the tracks. The direction expressed by Parliament is important and I believe that the Senate Assembly should also make this very wish that this moment of common feeling of national identity should be properly celebrated. I therefore ask, in conclusion, to know if and what initiatives are being prepared for the commemoration of this event, also in order not to disperse the meaning of historical memory, as a collective cultural heritage, to be transmitted and disseminated, even among young people, together with the indefectible objectives of education, training and participation. So, Minister, we would also like the Senate to be able to join in these moments of celebration and to know the planned deadlines.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-350.ana.u57	The Minister for Defence, Mr Guerini, has the right to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-350.ana.u58	Mr President, I would like to express my particular appreciation for the opportunity given to me here to answer this question, in full agreement with the reasons given for Parliament's meritorious direction in this regard and just mentioned by the Senator. The symbols and their meanings cannot be divided; indeed, it is necessary to dissipate their unifying force to the younger generations, because the message that they give us integrates, strengthens and harmonizes with the objectives of education, training and participation, which can make young people the protagonists of the memory of a noble past that, through them, becomes a future. On the merits of the questions asked, there are numerous initiatives in which the Defense plays a role as protagonist or agency of coordination and support, in order to allow a picture of full decorum to the commemorative events. I would like to begin with the project "Milite ignoto, citizen of Italy", an initiative created by the Gold Medals group, through the ANCI, also supported by the National Permanent Council of Weapons Associations (Assoarma) and the Italian Confederation between the combative and partisan associations, which involves the municipal administrations for the bestowal of honorary citizenship to the unknown Milite. In support, the Commissioner-General for the Honor of the Fallen, as well as the Defence Staff and the Territorial Military Commands, are engaged. I am pleased to share with you the achievement of the first 2,000 accessions by the Italian municipalities. The opening of the celebrations was already held last June 1st at the Flags Hall of the Altar of the Homeland, with an event that saw a qualified participation, enriched by intellectuals, journalists and actors, as well as institutional representatives. In June, a historic military car, personalized with the symbols of the anniversary, was engaged in the Mille Miglia, the most beautiful race in the world, bringing the symbol of the centenary in the streets of Italy, in a prestigious context that suits him well. To underline the profound cultural value of the anniversary and the objective of involving our younger fellow citizens, the Staff of Defense is organizing, in collaboration with the Ministry of Education, a historical conference on the figure of the Unknown Milite, which will be conducted in streaming mode and using the virtual reality for a realistic representation of the contexts in which these events took place. In addition, at the opening of the next school year a competition will be held on the topic, which will involve all schools of every order and grade. In order to ideally pay homage to the millions of soldiers, who from the most remote villages reached the war fronts, next October 28 will depart from the railway station of Aquileia the train of memory, which, retracing the historical stages of the journey of the translation, will arrive in Rome leading ideally the remains of the fallen. This phase will culminate with the solemn demonstration of 4 November, at the Altar of the Homeland, in the presence of the highest institutional offices. This journey, for which one owes gratitude to the State Railways and their Foundation, will continue towards South Italy, but it is first touched by the convoy, for what it wants to be a unified embrace to the entire country. The details of this activity, of the special exhibition that will be held in November at the Shrine of flags, of the philatelic issue prepared thanks to the Ministry of Economic Development and the realization, thanks to the Ministry of Economy and Finance, through the Polygraph Institute of the State, of a celebratory coin, are being finalized and will find adequate description in the coming months. There are also numerous collateral initiatives for an important series of events that, with the necessary attention to health conditions and the fundamental institutional support, will permanently seal the hundred years of one of the purest and surprisingly modern symbols on which our concept of national unity rests. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Gasparri has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-350.ana.u59	Minister, thank you for the news you have provided to Parliament and which provide an exhaustive and important picture of the celebrations. In fact, on the occasion of 4 November, which will take place at the Altar of the Homeland, I invite you to involve the parliamentary forces: for all parliamentarians who want to participate, who represent the unity of the Nation, you can easily find spaces in the places of the Altar of the Homeland. Listening to your words - you spoke of the journey of the train that from Aquileia will retrace the stages of the transfer of the body of the unknown Milite to the Altar of the Homeland - I came up with an idea. I have sometimes seen the images of that trip on television; sometimes it happens late at night, on Rai History, on important channels. I would like to take this opportunity to invite you, as a member of the Government, and the whole of Parliament, in particular the Radio Surveillance Commission, to show those images in the main generalist channels with greater diffusion, to make it clear that this was a great time, after the war, for further consolidation of the feeling of belonging to the nation. It is no coincidence, then, that the bulletin of victory is reproposed in many places: we too have it in a place of passage between the palaces of the Senate, in the courtyard that leads to the palace of the Commissions, demonstrating that in all public places that event marked and marked the national unity. Therefore, the honour of the unknown Milite will be an important moment of reflection, also for the future and present prospects of a Europe that does not forget the history and identity of individual nations.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-350.ana.u60	Senator Conzatti has the power to explain the question 0-32732 on the contrast to the phenomena of mobbing and stretching, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-350.ana.u61	Mr President, Mr Orlando, I propose this question because a serious fact of the news has brought back to our proper attention the issue of harassment at the workplace and to know what programme the Government, you and in particular the Ministry that leads, to make jobs free from discrimination, mobbing and alienation; in a word, to make work truly decent and workers free to express their best at jobs. Italy has meritoriously ratified the Convention of the International Labour Organization (ILO) with Law No. 4 of 2021, but we believe that the implementing instruments and the laws of detail are still lacking to make these very valid principles that have been given effect. The fact to which I refer happened on 4 March last in Trentino, when a young gynecologist disappeared; the investigations are still under way, as are the research. What is known is that the previous day, March 3, Dr. Pedri Sara (this is her name) resigned her health care company and told her family that she had taken away a burden with this gesture. Everything else, everything else we know about, thanks to the meritorious work of journalists, the press that has lit a beacon on the matter and on the subject of harassment in the workplace. They tell of massacred shifts, abuse of power, continuous threats, and that is why I asked the Minister of Health on 23 June so that he could send inspectors to the hospital in Trento, particularly in the Gynecology department. Minister Hope promptly sent the inspectors and we are waiting to read their report. However, Minister, this fact must give our attention to one subject: even in a very excellent health sector, which seems to be taking the lead in Italy in the rankings for the quality of services, for the competence of doctors and operators, serious problems of organizational order and quality of working conditions can occur. I therefore feel that it is urgent to ask ourselves here about the issue of justice and to understand what types of protection workers have in order to defend themselves when these situations arise. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Labour and Social Policy, Mr Orlando, has the right to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-350.ana.u62	Mr President, I would very much like to thank the honourable Members for wanting to keep the attention, in this act of inspection union, on a dramatic episode that has greatly affected public opinion. In this respect, I would like to acknowledge that all the institutions have immediately taken action to clarify what has happened and the possible responsibilities. The story of Sara Pedri imposes a general reflection that must be accomplished in a system perspective. The phenomenon of violence in the workplace highlights rights and principles of constitutional rank and inviolable human rights also in the context of social formations: the right to health and psychophysical integrity, respect for freedom and human dignity in the context of economic initiative. Moreover, it is now unanimously recognised that these phenomena, in addition to the suffering and discomfort on the part of the victim and his family, generate significant direct and indirect costs that are also critical in the working environments. For this reason, a strong impetus has been given to regulatory action with the entry into force of Law No 4 of 2021, of ratification of ILO Convention No 190, in order to introduce adequate protection of our legal system and in compliance with the standards of prevention and protection contained in international regulations. In this respect, I believe it is important to point out that the Convention lays down, inter alia, the obligation to take measures to give more effective powers to labour inspectorates and to give the power to adopt immediately enforceable measures where necessary. With regard to worker protection and possible paybacks in the workplace, I would like to point out that we are proceeding, together with the Ministry of Justice and other administrations involved, with the transposition of the European Directive No. 1937 of 2019, with the precise aim of ensuring adequate protection for workers who decide to denounce irregularities and offences of which they have become aware in their workplace. I therefore agree with the need to evaluate the ad hoc legislative initiative, as requested by the interrogators, which complements the forms of protection so far largely guaranteed by law, in order to standardise the definition of the case of mobbing, to broaden knowledge of the phenomenon, including in relation to the aspects of work organisation, to strengthen prevention policies and to introduce more effective measures to combat it. However, these actions require a common strategy on the protection of rights, health and safety at work. It is also necessary to strengthen paths already started with the social partners and the equal partner for the implementation of the commitments made in the context of the agreement signed in 2016 between Confindustria, CGIL, CISL and UIL, which transposes the framework agreement on harassment and violence at the workplace reached at European level. The social partners are also a key link in this area in order to promote positive changes in the workplace, to protect workers and to adopt actions and projects that can prevent conditions generating violence. I am therefore available to engage in a technical dialogue with the other administrations concerned, starting from health and justice, and of course to offer full availability for comparison also with any legislative initiatives that Parliament intends to take place. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Conzatti has the power to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-350.ana.u63	Mr. Minister, first of all, I would like to thank you and the Ministry for their attention to the case of Dr. Pedri. I would also like to thank you for the importance you attach to the issue of harassment at the workplace. In this reply, I would like to give you the sense of urgency dictated by this particular case, which perhaps could have been avoided by more precise measures to protect and protect workers and by all the other workers who have suffered and who are suffering. In particular, Minister, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the meritorious ratification of the Convention of the International Labour Organisation in our legal system, which took place under Law No 4 of 15 January 2021, lays down high general principles which, however, require implementing measures in order to be filled with content. I am referring, for example, to the general principle of the protection of witnesses; it is difficult to experience violence or mobbing. It is also difficult to have witnesses in support. That is why it is important not only to affirm the principle, but also to equip our system with instruments that define the situation, for example, that they are zero redundancies, redundancies and transfers. It is important to give the need and quantify the compensations, not only the assets, but also the dissuasive compensations. That is why, Minister, there are well-designed and well-written bills that Parliament proposes to the attention of the Government, especially to protect all workers.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-350.ana.u64	Senator Guidolin has the right to explain the question of access to early retirement by social and health workers for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-350.ana.u65	Mr President, Minister, at the heart of Question 3-02574 is the professional figure of the social and health worker (SDO). To date, unfortunately, the work of the social and health worker is not recognised as burdensome and, as a result, the SDGs cannot access early retirement in the presence of appropriate legal requirements. In fact, the decree of the Minister of Labour and Social Policies of 5 February 2018, which provided for the specification of the professions identified in point (f), Annex B, Law No 205 of 2017, under the heading of personal assistance of persons under conditions of non-self-sufficiency, entered exclusively the Istat Code 5.4.4.3. This includes within it the profession of socio-assistance operator, so-called OSA, but not that similar, in terms of functions and heavy duties, of the socio-sanitary operator, indicated instead by the code Istat 5.3.1.1.0. Therefore the OSA can access early retirement for having carried out heavy work in the presence of legal requirements; the OSS, however, even if there are legal requirements, cannot do so. I would stress that the two professions differ exclusively for the greater training and responsibility that characterizes the figure of the social and health worker. Some employers to overcome the problem have disqualified employees from OSS to OSA, certainly dangerous road, which certainly does not do justice to the years already spent in carrying out the work of OSS. It is therefore necessary to overcome this unjustified difference in treatment between very similar professions. In the light of what has been said, Minister, let us ask you first of all whether you are aware of what has been said and whether the technical committee responsible for examining the seriousness of the occupation, established by Law No 160 of 2019, and what assessments you and the committee in question are making; whether you intend to put in place appropriate regulatory measures also in order to update and supplement the indications set out in Annex A. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-350.ana.u66	The Minister for Labour and Social Policy, Mr Orlando, has the right to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-350.ana.u67	Mr President, the questioners raise the issue of the revision, classification and specification of heavy categories of work, in accordance with the interministerial decree of 5 February 2018, with particular reference to the recognition of the functions and severity of the duties of the social and health worker. It is a professionalism that carries out - within the framework of its competences - important activities of assistance, care and prevention. Moreover, following the adoption of an amendment by the Chamber of Deputies when converting the Decree-Law on Support- bis, the inclusion of the profession of SDGs in the social and health role was recognised. As a general rule, there is no doubt that there is a need to update the classification of heavy occupations in order to take into account the specificities of current living and working conditions and to ensure greater equity in the pension benefit system. Not all heavy and weary tasks are now adequately recognized and protected. That is why I considered it a priority to activate the Technical Committee, which was responsible for studying the seriousness of occupations, which was set up last November. On 5 May she returned to meet again, after the modification of its composition following the birth of the new Government. The Commission's task is to assess the impact on life expectancy of certain working conditions in order to better analyse and study the social security responses best suited to specific occupational categories. The work of the commission is still in progress, having been extended to 31 December 2021 - pursuant to Article 11 (4) of Decree-Law 183 of 2020 - the deadline for the conclusion of the work. With regard to the work of the committee, however, it is evident that, thanks to the technical and scientific contribution, offered, among others, by INAIL, Istat and INPS, there is currently a timely recognition of both the categories for which the pension benefits reserved for heavy occupations are already recognized today and for others that could be assimilated to them as characterized by particularly high indices of fatigue and risk. From this perspective of study are examined also the financial profiles connected to the preparation of possible normative interventions of reordering of the matter, with redefinition therefore of the working categories considered burdensome. The work of the committee is therefore a very important opportunity to update the picture of the burden of work and to arrive at a new system that meets the needs of workers and workers. The questioner's request can certainly be evaluated in this area. The assumptions on which the committee is moving encourage us to think that a whole range of activities that fall within the given indices can be taken into account. We await, however, the outcome of this type of analysis, on the basis of which I will be able to give a complete answer. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Guidolin has the right to intervene in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-350.ana.u68	Mr Minister, I am nevertheless satisfied with your reply. I would like to stress, as you also pointed out, that recently, in the Decree-Law on Supports- bis, we collaborated together in order to give a role to the socio-health worker but also to social workers and sociologists. In light of all this, I am sure, as you yourself said, that attention will be paid to this umpteenth problem, remedying a mistake made years ago and that it could give answers to a category that has spent a lot, even in the emerging period, along with nurses and doctors. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-350.ana.u69	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-350.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-350.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-350.ana.u72	DE VECCHIS (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, the victory of the national football team to Europeans, the world volleyball champions under 21, the success of Berrettini is a source of pride and happiness for all of us. In this difficult moment, sport, blue color, blue, the Tricolor become a reason for social aggregation, not simply typhus, but ideal, national and cultural belonging. For this reason, I would like to thank all the athletes and athletes who will participate in the Tokyo Olympics and allow me to address a special wish to the four athletes in my city, Fiumicino. These athletes are the pride of a municipality like many, who suffered for this pandemic, due to the crisis of the tourism sector, catering, air transport (Alitalia in Fiumicino has the important hub Leonardo da Vinci). Having these athletes who will participate in the Olympics is therefore a moment of joy for us. Having fellow citizens at such an important sporting event is an honor for our city. I would like to mention their names: Daniele Lupo, Giordana Sorrentino - a woman - for boxing, Francesca Milani - a woman - for judo. Special thanks to Edoardo Giordano, of the national paralympic fencing team. They're important athletes in our city. To them goes our wish and I am convinced that all Italians will cheer for them and for all the athletes. At this moment the sport is aggregation, the Italian sport is winning and even on this occasion Italy will win. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-350.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-350.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-350.ana.u75	CROATTI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to draw attention to the subject of discos and dance halls. The decision whether to reopen them or not is a matter that is bringing them to public attention. In fact, behind this sector there is a very important economic generation, especially entrepreneurs who pay taxes, who have employees, who are making huge investments. I quote a Rimini entrepreneur, Enrico Galli, who in February 2020 bought one of the most important discotheques in Italy and against a very high investment, in 17 months opened only for some evenings. This is a very difficult time for this sector. Minister Garavaglia gave a great willingness to discuss the theme of a reopening, at this moment, orderly, coordinated and precise. Currently, every corner of our cities is becoming an absolutely out-of-control discotheque: there are parties on all sides, major public order issues that locals can actually handle. There is absolutely a need for caution at this time, so I would like to thank the Minister for the availability and work he is doing with the Technical and Scientific Committee in order to be able to reopen with the right guidelines, because it is absolutely important to keep public health at the centre of any debate. I hope that this sector, which has been very strongly affected by the pandemic, will be able to have sufficient refreshments and support. In fact, this sector is always linked to young people, but it affects all generations in a cross-cutting way. We cannot leave him behind at the moment, but we must give him help and closeness, and I would like to remind him that this sector is always being examined to be punished, whereas on the table there are very important proposals that Parliament must take forward. In the area of taxation, the transfer of licences that is taking place at the moment must be blocked and, above all, these premises must be included in the field of culture, where they would then have the possibility to use the resources of the FUS and to amortize VAT like all other cultural sectors and as happens in all other countries of Europe. Above all, we must abolish the tax on entertainment and intervene on Article 100, which is a real problem for this sector. At a time of great difficulty when we are always talking about discotheques, we should put at the heart of the debate the renewal of this sector, supporting its reform. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-350.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-350.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-350.ana.u78	LOMUTI (M5S). Mr President, in the Justice Commission, we are working on the reform of the civil process in a serious and scrupulous manner and remaining attentive to the needs of citizens in the face of the civil justice machine. I am talking about a very important body of rules that affects almost all institutions of civil procedure and, among them, civil enforcement. We have read with bitterness what is reported on page 57 of the PNRR, which shows practically the intention to repeal the current legislation on executions. We regret this because we are afraid that the rules so laboriously obtained during this parliamentary term will be repealed. We consider these common sense rules because they are designed to balance the interests of both the creditor and the debtor, a very difficult task in a minefield, very delicate as that of real estate executions. We are afraid that rules such as Law No 12 of 2019, the famous Bramini Act, or Law No 28 of 2020, which, together with Article 560 of the Code of Civil Procedure, have a series of measures that intervene on enforcement procedures such as those concerning judicial auctions, which allow the executioner, whose home is sold to the charms, to continue living with the family in his home even after the award and up to a reasonable period - I think it is sixty days - that allows the executor to seek a new accommodation. I note that there has been an attack on Article 560 of the Code of Civil Procedure, which is observed precisely by the banking system because of what I have just said. I remember the episode, for example, of Brothers of Italy who deposited the amendment that wants the repeal of that article, which was then withdrawn and then redeposited by colleagues of Forza Italia. This is not a minor situation, since there are about 100,000 homes under evictions. This determines that we have about 650,000 people in Italy who are evicted. These include some of the 5 million living in total poverty and some of the 10 million living on the poverty line. A lack of control of the situation could lead to a state of chaos, such as the rise in suicides, the rise in the outskirts of villas, nurseries for organized crime. Leaving the weakest categories such as the elderly, minors and the unemployed goes to break up the very institution of the family, because these people would be divided into the various RSAs, communities and family homes. These people, on the other hand, are counting on us and, therefore, I call on the whole of Parliament and the centre-left not to vote on rules that repeal the current legislation. I appeal to the Brothers of Italy, who continue to be electrocuted on the road to Damascus, not only because they withdraw these amendments, but also because they vote against those who go in this direction. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-350.ana.u79	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-07-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-350.ana.u80	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday, 27 July, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (The sitting was closed at 16.05 a.m.)
