ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.16 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Binetti, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u4	I would like to say that the following draft law was presented on 8 June: by the President of the Council of Ministers and the Ministers for Economic Affairs and Finance, for equal opportunities and the family and labour and social policies: (a) Conversion into law of Decree-Law No 79 of 8 June 2021 laying down urgent measures for temporary allowances for minor children (2267).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u5	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft constitutional law Nos. 83, 212, 938, 1203, 1532, 1627, 1632 and 2160, in the unified text proposed by the Commission. I recall that at yesterday's sitting the rapporteur integrated the written report and the general discussion, the rapporteur's reply and the examination of the articles of the unified text proposed by the Commission took place.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u6	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u8	UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the government, a girl named Sophie Baxen brought before the Constitutional Court in Karlsruhe a law of 2009 which provides for a 55% reduction in CO2 emissions by 2030. Sophie claimed that the waves of the North Sea, raised by the breakup of the Arctic, will swallow the island of Pellworm, in front of Schleswig-Holstein, and with it the farm of the Baxen family, farmers for three hundred years, will disappear. In Germany every citizen can ask the Court to rule on the constitutionality of a law, the young Sophie has provoked an epochal judgment: the Court, in fact, has declared partially unconstitutional the law of 2019; considers that discharges on future generations too onerous commitments for climate neutrality by 2050, making it necessary much more burdensome cuts in the twenty years after 2030. These measures would result in an excessive and disproportionate sacrifice of the fundamental rights of the citizens of tomorrow. With this ruling, the Karlsruhe Court, for the first time in Europe, translated rhetoric for future generations into precise government responsibilities. This fundamental judgment for the generational pact was only possible because in the German Constitution environmental protection has been a fundamental principle since 1994, as well as in many other European countries. In Italy it is the first time that we have discussed an amendment to the first 12 articles of the Constitution and indeed there is no more time to waste. We live a radical transformation of the planet, especially because of our behavior. Climate change already affects our lives: violent fires, arrival of insects harmful to crops and particularly strong winds in recent years have increased in number and intensity. In December 2020, UN Secretary-General António Guterres launched a dramatic appeal against the climate emergency: humanity is declaring war on nature, this is suicide; biodiversity is falling, a million species are at risk of extinction, ecosystems are disappearing before our eyes. Indeed, if our way of life does not change deeply, large portions of the planet will increasingly be subject to floods, droughts and other forms of natural disasters. According to the UN's People and Oceans document, some 145 million people live one metre from sea level and almost two thirds of the world's cities are in risky areas. We can only imagine the great waves of migration that will result. Together with climate and waste, biodiversity is one of the key issues. Already now the complex of living creatures on the planet is made up of 30 percent men, 60 percent farm animals (or at least domesticated at our service) and only 10 percent wild animals. According to the WWF, food systems cause 80% loss of biodiversity. Every year 70 billion animals are killed worldwide for food and two out of three grow in intensive farms. Each year a forest equal to half of Britain is cut down to raise table animals. Even in Italy 95 percent of pigs grow under these conditions. The pastures are gone. How do these living conditions fit in with the 2007 Lisbon Treaty, which recognised animals as sentient beings? For our civil code animals are movable property and criminal protection is not for the animal itself, but for the feeling that we humans have towards them. Certain treatment practices are unacceptable, yet still fully lawful. Not only farms in too small structures, but also transport for thousands of kilometers even in countries without any form of protection, where animals are subjected to atrocious suffering. Then we think about the treatment of male chicks, which for the industrial system constitute a waste and which are then shredded alive in rotating blades machines, or the castration of pigs without stunning. These are all issues on which there is a lively debate in Europe to look for alternative forms of breeding and to avoid these animals suffering as great as it is useless. In Italy this public discussion has been lacking for too long, but the suffering of animals cannot be an accessory cost of our lifestyles and consumption. We need a rethink of the agricultural policy, so that the quantity is above the quality. Justly in the green new deal, strongly desired by the European Commission, almost total zeroing of contributions for intensive farms is envisaged, in order to safeguard the planet and animal welfare, but also to avoid new pandemics. The plants crowded by hundreds of thousands of animals are laboratories of viral mutations. Crazy cow has spread from intensive farms in Europe; avian influenza from extermination camps for Chinese chickens and geese; swine flu from Mexican industrial pigs; Sars-CoV-2 from large Chinese meat markets. If we do not want the planet to be in the next few years dealing with another dramatic emergency, we must rethink everything immediately. Unfortunately, there is no vaccine against the climate crisis, as Commission Vice-President Frans Timmermans pointed out; We can no longer live against nature, but we must live with respect for nature. We are the only great country in the European Union that does not in fact have an important ecological party that can mark the way, yet we cannot be pro-European without being convinced that we are also ecologists. Europe rightly claims, in exchange for its help, that we invest most of our money in the protection of the environment and the ecological transformation of our economy. The land was not left to us as a legacy by our parents, but was loaned to us by our children: this says an old slogan of the ecologists (sons like Sophie Baxen). With this constitutional amendment they will also find in Italy the legal basis to protect their rights. For these reasons, I announce the vote in favour of the For the Autonomies Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u9	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u11	Grimani (IV-PSI). Mr President, with the amendment of Articles 9 and 41 of the Constitution, which was unanimously adopted in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, a method has been introduced which I consider to be positive and important for Parliament, i.e. to proceed together in a process of sharing constitutional changes, inter alia by going beyond a stage in which the issue of constitutional reforms has proved to be a divisive issue. Let us remember, in this sense, the paths of the past years, mentioned yesterday, of the various bicameral commissions that have followed in this country, of the great Constitutional reforms approved by Parliament and then rejected by the successive referendums in 2005 and 2016, became the object of contention and political opposition. In this way, however, the strategy of those major reforms, which had led to failures, has been closed and a phase of adjustments to the Constitution has opened, among other things, a part of the fundamental principles, therefore an absolutely not to be overlooked aspect, which changes the political assessment of the reform itself, making Parliament become more aware. In this is the difference compared to some recently introduced changes, such as the one on balance of the budget, which was unanimously approved by the whole Parliament, but which, as we have seen, was hardly considered a current reform, also considering that the pandemic crisis has led to a progressive change in the balance of the budget of this country bringing out the need to overcome the issue of balance of the budget; or like the reform that introduced the reduction of the number of parliamentarians, which is certainly central to the political agreement of the previous Government and certainly sensitive to public opinion, but approved without evaluating all aspects related to the issue of representativeness and the functioning of the Parliament in the absence of new regulatory balances and evaluations that, in my opinion, had to be made. In other words, it was necessary to assess how Parliament's machinery can respond to the needs of citizens in a current situation by reducing the number of Members. This, however, is a subject that we will be discussing in the future and which we must not talk about now. With the amendment of the Constitution in our examination, however, we overcome the history of the theme of the environment in the Italian Constitution. It is clear that the Constitution, written between 1946 and 1947, saw the constituent fathers overcome the theme of the environment: that was clearly a historical moment in which the central theme was the reconstruction of the country following the Second World War and industrial development, therefore there could absolutely not exist, at that stage, an awareness of the damage that man had caused to the natural heritage for the effects of the war itself. Article 9, in the first draft of the Constitution, therefore limited itself to providing for a commitment of the Republic to protect the landscape, the historical and artistic heritage of the Nation. With the development of Community law, European law today, and international law, the issue of the environment has become central in time, if not vital, and Italy has also built more and more important legislation on air pollution, water pollution and waste management. With this constitutional change, the principle of protecting the environment and biodiversity of ecosystems is enshrined in Article 9, also in the interests of future generations, which is a central and fundamental issue. It is stipulated that the law of the State regulates the ways and forms of animal protection and introduces an important aspect to Article 41 relating to the public and private economic initiative, which cannot be carried out in contrast to health and the environment, besides - as already foreseen - safety, freedom and human dignity and public and private economic activity must be addressed not only for social purposes, but also for environmental purposes. Yesterday, the historic nature of constitutional reform was highlighted in many speeches, which we are about to approve today, and I believe that this assessment has not been too positive or inadequate to the actual value that this change has. This is a historic change, because it mainly takes on the theme of the environmental crisis as a structural element, which can have dramatic results and therefore is put a point on this aspect. It is highlighted how man, predator of nature, cuts the roots of his own future: if the Planet becomes sick, man, being part of this ecosystem, can only become ill accordingly. It is therefore important to consider man in a relationship of interdependence with the environment. Even the pope, in the encyclical "Laudato si'", quoting St Bonaventure, poses the theme of the inseparable relationship between all creatures. If this relationship breaks, man kills himself. It is precisely in this reasoning, therefore, that the issue of the protection of future generations is included, another central aspect of this constitutional change. We must consider that the Planet has resources destined to end and we are its guardians and not its owners. In practice, as has also been said by many of the auditors in the Commission, this reform surpasses an anthropocentric vision, whereby the environment was seen exclusively as something useful for the individual or for the community, and instead it goes towards an objective vision, that is, the environment understood as a common good, of primary importance for social life and for economic life, which must be preserved as well as for itself, in order to ensure the ecosystem of current generations and future ones. In this sense I agree with what has been said by those who have pointed out that it is made to emerge, in addition to the dimension of duty, also that linked to intergenerational solidarity. These are requirements that must end up taking precedence over the freedom of both individuals and the public. And here is the theme of the economic initiative, which must be mitigated and addressed to activities that care about the environment, to ensure the life and development of the same, but also sustainability for future generations. I think that this has been an important work, of great conceptual significance, but that will probably also determine the progressive adaptation of the Italian legal system to the issue of environmental protection. Surely this will have to lead to legislation more punctual, more attentive to the environmental issue that includes stricter sanctions, for the failure to respect the ecosystem, because the constitutional principle will be the basis, the architrave, the first rule on which the entire legal, legislative and also sanctioning measures will have to be ordered. That is why our Group supported this reform process, shared it during the construction phase in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and considered it an important step towards updating our Constitution, precisely because it is aimed at future generations and at the central theme of environmental protection, which we can no longer consider secondary. The words of the President of the Draghi Council must also be collected, which, in this very Chamber, presenting the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, has defined the theme of ecological transition as fundamental for a new green revolution in this country. On the basis of these considerations, we can only vote in favour of the reform of Articles 9 and 41 of the Constitution that we are dealing with today in this House. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u12	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u14	THE PIETRA (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, we are talking here today about the reform of Article 9 of the Constitution to introduce an important concept: the protection of the environment and ecosystems. As I said yesterday during the presentation of the amendments that we tabled to this bill, Brothers of Italy is a patriotic party, so a party that loves the country. And, when you love your homeland, you love the land of our fathers: I say this because the theme of the environment is in our DNA and we always face it pragmatically. We do not need to highlight stars and stars, because in our goal we have only one big star, which is the national one, that of Italy. And, on the basis of this, all our actions are declined and consequently also those at the political level. As I said, we do environment and we have always done environment. We are doing this pragmatically, and precisely with this approach we should deal with the changes that we want to bring to the draft law under consideration today. I say this because many times, even listening to the speeches of many colleagues, we have the impression that we want to put degrees on the jacket or a medal to say that a given amendment has been introduced in the Constitution and we can rest assured. We fill our mouths a little by saying that we have incorporated environmental protection into the Constitution and it ends here. In fact, concrete policies are needed to ensure that environmental protection measures can actually be implemented. I make a very trivial example: when we stop to admire the landscapes of our nation, for example those of my land, Tuscany, we can observe sweet hills, with vineyards, fields and woods that follow each other many times in a harmonious way; rows of cypresses that run along the ridges of our hills. Well, that's environmental protection, but it's man-made environmental protection. It is the man who created this environment: our farmers, all those who preceded us have with their work, modified a primordial environment, and made it what it is today, contributing to the beauty of our nation, and not only in Tuscany, but throughout Italy. I stress this because I believe that environmental protection must be in some way concrete and harmonized with human activities. We cannot have a radical attitude, as we hear from certain parts of this Parliament. The protection of the environment by some is radicalized and nothing should be touched or done. That is not our attitude. While we fully agree with the introduction of environmental protection, biodiversity and ecosystems, on the other hand we fear that this will lead us to have to interpret each time what the priority of application is. I take a trivial example: there is a need to build an infrastructure to make a place or infrastructure safer to make it easier to reach a place and make life easier for its inhabitants. Do we do this or do we protect the biodiversity and ecosystem of the place? Often we were faced with such situations and for similar trivialities, perhaps to protect some goods, without really making sense, we found ourselves interrupting important construction works at the service not only of a good quality of life, but also of productive activities. Another trivial example: how do we respond if an appeal is made to protect a good? I say this because, once it is written, if someone makes use of the Constitutional Court to build an infrastructure, what is done? Is everything jammed? Is the construction of a dam, a purifier, a road or any other infrastructure of public utility blocked? Attention. We have tabled two amendments to the text, both amending Article 9, to delete or amend the final part of that paragraph where the law of the State governs the methods and forms of animal protection. We consider it extremely superfluous to have introduced this sentence, because in fact the protection of animals is already included in our legal system and Italy is one of the most restrictive countries from this point of view. We have specific rules and no one can teach us how to protect animals. Apparently it says something superfluous, a banality, because it is clear that the laws of the State decline the principles enshrined in the Constitution. Then why did you want to introduce him? It was a political mediation, but with the risk of bringing back from the window what could not enter the door, and that is why I am taking a step back, Mr President. Before this last redefinition, in fact, the proposed basic text read: protecting biodiversity and animals. Please be careful, because I want to be clear and I do not want this statement to be exploited. In fact, I repeat clearly that we are not against the protection of animals, on the contrary, but with the usual pragmatism we have said to be careful to write certain things in the Constitution. Have you thought about what kind of impact it will have on hundreds of economic activities? Have you thought about what could have happened if this rule had been written in this way in the Constitution for our farms, for our products of agri-food excellence? This is a question which I ask myself because it seems to me that this reflection has not been made in depth. Banalizzo, but with a written rule in this way, if there were an appeal to the Constitutional Court to protect pigs reared for the production of ham or sausages, what do you do, stop making Parma ham, just to name one of the best known? I could give a thousand more examples. Or you could stop making wurstels, as my colleague Unterberger teaches us. [[Applause]] , since he wants to communicate to us the environmental model of Germany. We have nothing to learn from anyone, indeed we have much to teach and if Europe were to hear more, most likely many things would be better resolved. Moreover, as is partly happening, hunting would be interrupted: in the Constitution could it be written that the Republic protects animals? You have to be careful! So we would have wild boars walking through the streets of the capital, which seems to me a rather striking case, or many other cities; then we would also have the case of associations that could be responsible for the care and maintenance of these animals that, I remind all of us, are harmful and cause damage to agriculture and the environment. In short, this is a measure that leaves some interpretation doubts rather worrying at the agricultural level and not only; a measure that we have not understood the urgency, the necessity and that commits the House at such a delicate time for the nation, struggling with a pandemic whose consequences are raging heavily on our economy. We wanted to introduce this debate and we are spending a day and a half talking about this. I am not saying that it is not relevant; however, at a time when we are called to make important choices for the future of the nation and the next generations, instead of talking about this we are talking about the protection of animals. Surely it is a battle of civilization, I do not say the opposite, but I wonder if this was really a priority, unless we consider our country to be backward in terms of the protection of the environment and the ecosystem, but I repeat that it is not. I remind myself and the whole Assembly that Italy, from an environmental and faunal point of view, is one of the most virtuous countries in Europe and in the world. The impression is instead that there is a majority - I say this very clearly - that uses this Government of national unity, which would have the purpose of managing and implementing the National Recovery and Resilience Plan (PNRR) - that was why it was born - to carry forward ideological positions by exploiting the delicate and precarious political balances of government: protection of animals, ius solo, decree-law on special economic zones (ZES). Be careful, friends of the League and of Forza Italia! Returning to the theme, the form is not enough, the substance is needed, as I said. In the field of environmental protection, large-scale policies are needed, for example to prevent the abandonment of peripheral areas such as the mountain which, if not cared for, creates criticality even downstream. But for these, nothing is done. Policies are needed for the renewal of public transport, but investment is being made in scooters. Investment and energy policies are needed on renewable sources, but hydropower is sold to foreigners. Environmental protection is achieved by starting from civic education in schools, investing in professionalism and structures and not with wheelchairs. In short, Mr President, a lot of rhetoric, a lot of emphasis, but few facts. We are in favour of environmental protection, but with concrete action. We are not convinced of the form that recalls the protection of animals and for these reasons I declare the abstaining vote of the Brothers of Italy Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u15	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u17	Mr Ferrazzi (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we must all be very respectful of the words we use. The crisis of civilizations is often marked by the weariness of words. A great writer of the twentieth century said that words are worn out, recounting the crisis of European civilization of his century. I believe, however, that in some moments and some passages, using the term historical event specifically makes sense and has meaning. And today we are in the presence of a historical event. We are in the presence of a historical event because we modify, indeed integrate, our Constitution, on a fundamental passage, of which I shall now say. And we are in the presence of a historical event because, objectively, in the centuries-old history of our Republic, it is the first time that we have changed, indeed to supplement, the part of the fundamental principles of the Constitution, in particular Article 9. This is the fourth time that the first part has been amended, but it is the first time that the title relating to economic relations, as referred to in Article 41, has been changed. This is to say that we are indeed faced with a great novelty and a great constitutional innovation. Of course, the Constitution, by its very nature, takes note, recognizes and revives popular sentiment. We cannot fail to say, on this day, that certainly the work that we are preparing to define with today's vote is also the result of the work that we have done together, in a very cross-cutting way, in the Committee of the Regions, which has led to months of hearings and comparisons, in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and finally in the Commissions which have delivered an opinion. We have received, during this work, the testimony of decades of experiences of people, women and men, who have struggled for the defense of the planet and for the environment, even when no one spoke about it. Beware that the term "protection of the environment" is not present in our Constitution not already because the constituent Fathers were not people of absolute level, but simply because, from 1948 onwards, the approach to the theme of ecology has changed structurally because the world and the planet in which we live has changed. The theme of climate change and the subject of certain pollution were already present, but they were not yet as scientifically analyzed and as dramatically impacted as they have been in particular since the 1960s. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today is the time to recover this gap, this historical distance, this distance in terms of sensitivity and culture, especially towards the younger generations, who are very careful in this direction. I say this because more than anyone has twisted his nose, as the President of the 1st Commission, Senator Parrini, said yesterday, in the face of a constitutional change, even of fundamental principles. The Constitution, however, is a dynamic reality. It is a reality that must evolve and, if there are events that structurally change social cohesion and even the reality of life on earth, it is clear that we must intervene. Therefore, it is not so much a modification of the Constitution, but an integration of the Constitution. It is a fundamental cultural, political and constitutional achievement. [[Applause]] On the other hand, we're not the first. Many democracies around the world have already integrated the Constitution. They have certainly done so in a diversified way, giving more emphasis to other concepts, such as sustainable development and animal protection, but the basic principle of recognition of the protection of the environment at constitutional level is absolutely central and fundamental. I felt before the colleague of Brothers of Italy to say, as yesterday also pointed out some interventions, that there would be no need for a modification of the Constitution, because our order already contains many laws of environmental protection and there are many judgments, in this sense. On the other hand, we believe that there is also a need from the legal point of view because it is absolutely right and sacred in comparing interests that there is also a constitutional value for the protection of the environment. This will also have a very important legal impact. We protect the environment, biodiversity and ecosystems. We have finally understood one thing, thank God: we have understood that there can be no dichotomy, distance and detachment between biodiversity, the planet and man because we are intimately united with each other, we live intimately in relation. All modern science and even modern philosophy lead to this very point; we are in relationship and integrated. At a time when man imagines that he is master, owner, even manipulator of the planet, he commits an idiocy, because he is precisely cutting the tree on which he is seated or from which he draws the fruit. This close relationship creates the need for environmental protection, in order to protect ourselves as well. [[Applause]] This is the fundamental step. Many have mentioned - and this is a very positive thing - the encyclical "Laudato Si' of the Pope who now a few years ago has put the theme of the environment and its protection; even an encyclical. Some have said that it is the end of anthropocentrism, it is a revision and a revolution also from the cultural point of view, the approach of the church and its doctrine. It is not so; it is the correct relocation of the concept of anthropocentrism within the cosmos, so that it does not turn into chaos. It is in fact only the interpretation of the reports. Even the Pope recalls the theology of St. Bonaventure, the great Franciscan co-eval of St. Francis, who arranged from the theological and philosophical point of view the cultural impact, and above all religious, of St. Francis. San Bonaventura said something extraordinary and had a thrilling intuition, which, by the way, I feel absolutely mine. Let me quote you in this House with fear and trembling, as the poet would say. Being a Trinitarian God (the Christian God), that is, a relationship in himself, and being man and every creature created in the image and likeness of God, this relationship is intimately present, in its very existence, in its ontology. As a result, when he forgets the report and becomes a predator, he slaughters himself. This is the cultural axis of the Pope's encyclical. Attention - the encyclical points out - to man is entrusted the cosmos and this means taking care of it and protecting it, but it also means cultivating it. Science, technology and human activity are positive. Of course, having developed technoscience of this magnitude in the twentieth century, cultural sensitivity must be developed at the same time, because if technoscience becomes myth, man is impoverished and the cosmos is massacred, with a heterogeneous end that goes exactly towards destruction. [[Applause]] In conclusion, Mr President, we must not waste this opportunity and the work done. Today we are closing a very passionate parliamentary work and a great debate. We close a parliamentary work which will probably see, as we have already seen yesterday, a large, very large majority by the Senate. We must give ourselves the institutional political commitment to complete the process before the end of the parliamentary term. We know that the amendment of the Constitution rightly needs some passages, so let's do them. We owe it, Mr President, to those who have been fighting for these issues for a long time, we owe it to us who have worked on it, but we owe it above all to our children. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u18	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u20	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, from some of my previous colleagues I have heard that there was no need to intervene to include protection of the environment, ecosystems, biodiversity and animals in the Constitution. We think the opposite is the case, and in this respect the work done within the Commission for which I thank my colleagues and the rapporteur has been directed. We believe that we were already out of date. I would like to remind everyone that the text that comes to this House today is the result of the work of the many people who, since the 1990s, have also begun to present legislative proposals in Parliament (I am thinking of the Bozzi Commission and other attempts that have been made) so that it can finally be included among the fundamental principles of our Constitution, the protection of the environment, biodiversity, ecosystems and animals, as a value capable of informing public policies that must be a pillar of our Constitution. Other countries before us have made this intervention on the Constitution: Germany has been mentioned a lot, where since 1994 there has been intervention to establish not only the inclusion of environmental protection, but the concept of the relationship with future generations and the protection of animals. With regard to the dangers that were feared a moment ago by Senator La Pietra, who said that with this bill we would even endanger our agricultural economy system, I would like to say that obviously the colleague is not well documented about the economy and the choices of Germany, where I do not think they have all become vegan by obligation. So we do not make these paradoxes and we are respectful of the work and deepening that have been done. I would like to thank the President of the 1st Parrini Commission, because the work that has been done with the hearings and consultations of all constitutionalists, as well as the joint work that has been done between very different forces, starting also from different positions, allow us today to heal this distance. In addition to Germany, there is also the important work done in France in 2005, which is still going on and which, among other things, will be confirmed once again by the case, which has been won. This is what happens all over the world, however, where we talk about the rights of nature to be included in all the Constitutions and there is a movement on this: there have been the parliamentary initiatives that I remember, but there are many associations that have been working on this for years. I think today has finally come an important moment. We made a fundamental choice: we spoke on Article 9 of the Constitution, adding a paragraph. We have not touched on Article 9 for a form of recognition, because it is written very well: that article 9, which our constituent Fathers and Mothers have given us, has certainly allowed to protect the landscape and cultural heritage, even if not as much as would have been necessary, pushing the same constitutional jurisprudence to make sure that more and more we go towards the recognition of the environment as fundamental and indispensable right of the person and the community. The question then arises as to why we should intervene, because today it was important to add a paragraph to Article 9. We did not do a work of revision, but of enrichment. I would also like to say this to those who have doubts that we are intervening on the first part of the Constitution. It was right and sacred to intervene to finally sanction this recognition between the fundamental principles of the Republic and, therefore, of the Republican Pact. We have also spoken on Article 9, despite the constitutional jurisprudence and the reform of Title V, because the protection of the environment and the ecosystem that appears with the reform of Title V, in Article 117, is part of the division of competences on the various subjects between the State and the Regions, therefore lacked. This is the extraordinary thing today: we finally put the protection of the environment, ecosystems, biodiversity and animals among the fundamental principles and values, therefore in the first part of the Constitution. Some say there's no urgency. Are we still in the pandemic and continue to say that there is no urgency for this solemn recognition? Since this path and this attempt to incorporate the environment into the Constitution, the situation, according to scientific indices, has worsened. Since 1992, since the first conference on the environment in Rio de Janeiro, unfortunately in the world the situation and the data have deteriorated. We remember all the climate change data. We are not an oasis or a happy country. Italy is a country at great risk, as are our extraordinary biodiversity and the Mediterranean for the pressure of human activities. We are in the anthropocene, that is, in an age in which human activity is affecting and raping nature and is putting at great risk, because of the pressure on natural resources, the possibility of the reproduction of resources and, therefore, the reproduction of life. There is no more time and we must do it soon, not because the planet is at risk - I always say that the planet will continue and evolve - but because life on the planet is at risk. We talked about ecological transition, but we need a great cultural revolution. Technology alone will not save us; we need a great cultural revolution; we must understand that we live by nature and nature. We must rediscover the value of harmony, of being guardians of creation. My colleague, Mr Ferrazzi, has done well to quote now the encyclical "Laudato si'" (Laudato si') which takes its cues from the Franciscan thought. We must rediscover mother earth and sister nature; relive in harmony also the relationship with animals and all living species. Only with this harmonious relationship with natural resources, the environment, nature and other living species will we be able to save and ensure the survival of the species. The data - it is not appropriate to report them for brevity - are heavy. Only because of the aggression against biodiversity, for example, Italy is in sixth place as a danger among the G20 countries. I quote Italy, but I could quote more. As you know, it's urgent! I shall close by talking about Rule 41. The amendments to Article 41 are extraordinary because we say that all the activity of the private and public enterprise must have as reference points and limit the right to health and the right to the environment. This is a very extraordinary thing. For all these reasons, I am enthusiastic about the vote in favour of this draft Constitutional Review Act. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u21	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u23	GALLONE (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, Government, colleagues, there are moments in the history of a country that mark its pace and profoundly change its path, sometimes through apparently small acts, but in reality determining and significant for the change of an era. What we are experiencing today, with the approval in the Senate Chamber of the draft law on the constitutional protection of the environment, marks a passage, a turning point, the addition of a piece that goes to incorporate in a substantial way an article of the fundamental principles of our Constitution, with passionate work, with a work of everyone, that warms the heart within a Parliamentary Assembly. Forza Italia has been fighting for a long time to harmonise and update one of the principles, including the protection of the environment explicitly within Article 9 and Article 41. It was the battle of our Environment Minister Stefania Prestigiacomo, whom we thank today for the far-sightedness; we gathered this battle, presenting our proposal in the Senate, which entered fully into the unified text that today led to the definitive text. It was the battle of so many men, of so many women, of so many associations, of so many children today fully aware. Article 9: The Republic promotes the development of culture and scientific and technical research. It protects the landscape and the historical and artistic heritage of the Nation. It protects the environment, biodiversity and ecosystems, also in the interests of future generations. The law of the State governs the methods and forms of animal protection. Today is a very high moment for the legislator, it is the most significant experience that can happen during a parliamentary mandate: to touch with extreme respect the Constitution, the law of the laws, in its fundamental principle. Our Charter, studied, elaborated, drawn up, approved and signed by our founding fathers. We are making it fully aware that today it is an absolute necessity, which corresponds to a moment of virtuous evolution of the country. We are doing this to update a disposition, a direction, in this case a mission on a way of thinking, of acting, of living to which we owe and want to be faithful. This is a passage of vision and of the future within a harmonious project, as Mr Pagano, Vice President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, pointed out in his general speech yesterday when he stated the need to intervene adequately and comprehensively for the future, to achieve that integration, adding a principle that is also a value and that many years ago one could not think would become necessary in a country instead today so deeply industrialized. Today we are working for our children, those future generations to which we must think, if we want to give a fulfilled meaning to our actions, in order to make our country a fundamental part for the protection of the only house that hosts us, our planet, comforted - as my colleague Ferrazzi and my colleague De Petris have reminded us - even by the encyclical "Laudato si'" of Pope Francis, inspired by the Franciscan principles of gratitude for creation, towards a house that does not belong to us by right of birth, but that has been given to us. The National Recovery and Resilience Plan in all its parts, in all its missions, of any sector (economic, social, health, education and training), is constantly projected towards environmental protection and ecological transition. With the approval of this constitutional bill we can today support and strengthen even more every single action of this Government, reassured since the first clear intervention of President Draghi, which can be summarized with an indisputable statement: "No human action would be possible in a world that has become inhospitable." Again: Protecting the future of the environment, reconciling it with progress and social well-being, requires a new approach: digitisation, agriculture, health, energy, aerospace, cloud computing, schools and education, protection of territories, biodiversity, global warming and greenhouse effect are different facets of a multifaceted challenge. Forza Italia takes up this challenge; Forza Italia, a liberal and reformist movement, addresses environmental issues in a balanced and rational way, perfectly aware that the function of the State must be to accompany the development and growth of the Nation in a great public-private alliance. It is precisely the world of enterprise and economy that is evolving within the difficult path of transition. Important, even radical, conversions are underway, and those who will adapt to change by evolving will have to be protected and accompanied, and this will be the difficult task that economic policy will have to face, it is already facing; it is a great assumption of responsibility. In short, we want economic growth that is green without damaging or destroying the environment. At the same time, we want to improve the environment without stopping innovation and economic growth. The government, therefore - and the majority forces with him - will have to invest every possible resource in incentives and safeguards towards all the sectors that are making sustainability and the new model circular their mission. This starting from the system of agriculture - and I greet my colleague Caliguri who spoke yesterday on this topic - which represents the vanguard of environmental protection and prevention, passing through support to the renewable energy sector, to the strengthening of waste recovery, disposal and recycling plants, to the faster issuing of the decrees end of waste, to the realization of green infrastructures, giving above all clear guidelines, simplification and certainties of times and modalities to those who are committing so much. I take advantage of this opportunity to express our satisfaction with the interventions of extension and simplification of ecobonus 110%, which represents a virtuous model of support for work and the economy, thanks to the substantial energy efficiency of the buildings that will result, declaring, however, that we will not stop asking for the extension to 2023 and beyond and the extension also to the instrumental goods: hotels, gyms, peer schools [[Applause]] , condominiums with studies and offices, ruined farmsteads, historical residences for events, in the belief that urban regeneration cannot ignore this decisive initiative. The draft Constitutional Law is therefore intended to give the highest recognition to environmental protection and, following the Commission's examination of a widely shared text, other definitions have been included which clarify and broaden the scope of the constitutional protection of the environment. Together with the environment, biodiversity and ecosystems are protected and, as I said, they are done in the interests of future generations. Moreover, the funds of the Next Generation EU coming from the European Union provide precisely this kind of attitude, of predisposition, so that an apparent debt turns into a lever of profitability not only economic but social and environmental: environment, biodiversity and ecosystems, together with the fauna that lives there. The constitutional change makes a further step, precisely by providing that the law of the State regulates the ways and forms of animal protection. It will be the task and care of Parliament, of the legislator, to act wisely, balancedly, coherently also with regard to the respect of animals in their habitat and in captivity, respecting human activities and needs, but also animal welfare as a sensitive and conscious country that free suffering can be avoided in respect of every human activity. It will be up to the legislator's wisdom to find the right balance. In short, the path is long but begins immediately, it has already begun, because the future of our country will either be sustainable or not. We are convinced that Italy today has planted a tree that will put deep roots, whose fruits will be health and well-being for those who come after us. From now on we will only be able to move forward strengthened by the protection and certainty that our Charter offers us. For this reason, Forza Italia, convincedly and with the pride of having made its effective contribution to the composition of this constitutional law, will vote in favour of this very high measure of civilization. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u24	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u26	BRIZIERELLI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, in these days, with the examination of the proposal to incorporate environmental protection into the Constitution, we have seen a debate that has brought us back in time. And it couldn't have been otherwise. After all, the anniversary of June 2 came only a few days ago. This is an important date, not only because it is the Feast of the Republic, but - among many other things - it is also the day of the vote for the election of the Constitutional Assembly that gave rise to the Constitution. That Constitution which, according to many - and in my opinion they are right - is the most beautiful in the world, a masterpiece of balance between passions, ideas and conflicting values, arrived after a period of tormenting years, as only a civil war can produce. We should always bear in mind that this is the context in which we move and to which must be traced not only the declarations of these days, but also the preparatory phase that in recent weeks has seen further escapes and braking, also on our part. However, as we tried to explain, this was dictated by the will not to make mistakes on such a fundamental passage. The result today is that the path we have taken is the right one. Yesterday, Mrs Maiorino, as rapporteur, was able to explain this perfectly in a sentence that I would like to recall here today. He said that it is necessary to complete the process and give, without interpretative mediation, a clear environmental dimension to our Constitution, in line with the evolution of a sensitivity based on the need to preserve the natural context in which we live and of which we are part. Having said that, allow me to be concrete and direct. However, there can be no triumphalism or excessive celebrations. As important as it is, this is not a point of arrival, but a starting point. All my colleagues who have spoken, in one way or another, have pointed this out. One thing is to recognise a fundamental principle; another thing is to implement it. However, this is the first time - as my colleague Mr Ferrazzi said - that this has happened. Allow me, then, a digression which does not concern the environment, but which has the same meaning. I quote Pertini, perhaps one of the most beloved Presidents of our history, who spoke of freedom. He said that freedom alone is not enough because a free citizen, but without support, possibility of achievement and work, is a free citizen only to swear and die of hunger. This also applies to the environment. It is these days, for example, the President of the Republic's strong call to protect the landscape. It is right to simplify, but not deregulate. He referred, in particular, to the theme of photovoltaic plants and wind fields because it is useless to pursue a serious, concrete and coherent response in terms of renewable energy if then, for those same energies, the landscape becomes ruined, which perhaps is our first heritage. Moreover, there are some peculiarities of our territory that cannot be hidden. It's one thing to have a wind shovel in Northern Europe that turns 300 days a year, and it's another thing to have it here. If you have to clear a whole hill to bring the cables to that wind shovel, it's definitely not good. [[Applause]] Needless to think about the goodness of photovoltaic systems and then do this. In Piandarca, under Assisi, where St. Francis preached to birds (the Encyclical of Pope Francis has been recalled), a photovoltaic system is proposed on the ground. This is crazy, it's not environmental protection. [[Applause]] I also think of Orvieto, a beautiful territory. Can a 40-hectare photovoltaic field with 75,000 panels be protected? This is not environmental protection. One cannot, on the one hand, recall the defense of the ground and then allow this to dry up, covered for years by something that hides its beauty. These are the contradictions that we must overcome, because a principle is useless without the strength and ability to make it concrete, alive and current. The contradictions that we live in are so many, just think about water, which we think is a fundamental asset, so much so that we have also promoted the referendum on public water, that - let us remember - it is not implemented, but then let some areas of Italy have 52% of water dispersion and that to bring a liter of water into a house two are scattered. [[Applause]] Not to mention those areas where there is still the shame of the lorries that have to bring water, of those areas of Italy where the water cycle is not yet closed and there is no possibility of protecting the sea because there are discharges, as for 30% of the coasts of Messinese, just to give an example. On the one hand, we call for a high agreement to insert a word more or less into the Constitution and then let all this happen. We tear our clothes and we cry in this House when there are tragedies and then we do not have the strength to start a bill on the cleaning of hives in rivers, because there is a difference of approach on the ideological level. We complain when earthquakes happen and then we have the disaster, the disgust of having to find 100 million today after the earthquake of 1908 in Messina. From the earthquake in Irpinia to today how many reconstructions have been lost in the street? How many times have we not gone to see what was to be completed and not completed? These are the contradictions that we should overcome and perhaps we should really achieve what we promise. There are firm decrees, unused resources, we say that we are good when we write things on paper, but we do not assume the responsibility of translating them into concrete acts. This is what we need now, this is the commitment that we should make today. What is needed is the will, the strength and also the courage to throw a bridge between saying and doing, between what we are and what we might be. It is in this spirit that the League will not only vote firmly in favour of the inclusion of environmental protection in the Constitution, but will undertake to work concretely, daily, from here and over the years to really implement what cannot and must not remain just a declaration of intent. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u27	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u29	Mr Perilli (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, curious contradictions. I have listened to the debate and I can only start from the explanation of vote of the Group of Brothers of Italy, made by Senator La Pietra on behalf of a force that is not considered marginal neither in this Chamber, nor outside this Chamber, even for its always declared closeness to the hearing of people, of the people. Well, to hear that the protection of animals and the environment is absolutely marginal compared to what we are experiencing, that it is not an emergency and that it is even useless, if not dangerous, makes us understand on which different planet it is not only Brothers of Italy, but who believes culturally in these things. [[Applause]] The curious contradiction is that on the site of Giorgia Meloni we read that massacre and leave a poor cat dying of agony in front of children is an unprecedented and criminal gesture, to which there must be zero tolerance, that one must think of a policy that does not exclude their well-being. [[Applause]] I congratulate you very much, because this is the policy that people do not want, but I would also say rightly, because we cannot declare love for the environment and for animals and at the same time make an explanation of vote in this House where we do not only abstain on a measure which includes the protection of animals and the environment - a historic fact - in the Constitution, but also calls for the other part of the centre-right to be abstained, which has now focused, in an explanation of vote, on the positive aspects of this reform. I do not know in which world the colleague of Brothers of Italy lives, but I live in a world, and more specifically in a country, where animals are slaughtered, killed, massacred, tortured daily. Go and see the annual reports on what happens to animals, what happens in farms, abandons, the whole question of poaching and lawlessness. We are still very far away, colleagues, from acquiring a culture that may vaguely consider animals not an object, as they are now considered, but subjects of rights, with their own sensitivity, sentient beings. [[Applause]] This issue is very important, because if you do not grasp these sensibilities, if you do not start to create a culture in this House, then you will no longer be able to manage the violent and continuous decency that suffer defenseless animals, which have no representation but that of those who, in a very solitary way, try to carry out their rights. We do not even understand the society that is out there, because to say that it is not a priority means not having understood what has happened in these days from the social point of view and what will happen compared to all environmental issues. It is not just about pollution or the question of parameters or anything else; it is a matter of culture. [[Applause]] We need a change in people's minds and in everyday life, towards a model of conciliable development, which goes along with well-being, social justice and health. I don't know where Brothers of Italy's colleague lives. We have not only included the concept of protection of the environment and animals, but also the concept of environmental health, with respect to the limits of the private economic initiative, which is free but cannot harm either health or the environment. [[Applause]] The judgment of first instance on what happened at the former Ilva plant, with respect to the investigation entitled 'Sold-out environment', which led to heavy sentences for the determined environmental disaster, imposes - imposes! - to make clear, in Article 9, among the fundamental principles, the protection of the environment and, in Article 41, the fact that the economic initiative cannot be contrary to health and the environment. [[Applause]] Economic activities, whether public or private, must be directed for social purposes, but also for environmental purposes. I therefore ask my colleagues in the Brothers of Italy what could be dangerous in putting these issues into the Constitution, these words, beautiful even to hear, as well as to read. Among other things, I have noticed that no one in this House has previously mentioned the text of the constitutional amendment. Even outside, beyond the speech about words, one can appreciate the beauty of powerful lines, which restore dignity to a country, aligning it with other countries that already have the theme of the environment and respect for animals in their Constitutions. And they are not backward or culturally closed countries. It's a distortion of reality. [[Applause]] Well, the Republic protects the environment, biodiversity and the ecosystem. The law of the State regulates the forms and methods of animal protection: a reserve of law, which for the first time brings into the Constitution the theme of animals. I have partly appreciated Mr Briziarelli's speech, which says that we cannot stop here: for me it is an invitation. Withdrawn, then, are the 5,000 amendments to the "animal protection" bill, which show that, instead, you are blocking a rule against the mistreatment of animals. [[Applause]] Why are you doing this? Senator Salvini has also worked hard to show videos in which he holds his little dogs, inviting them not to mistreat them: well. Remove the 5,000 amendments to the bill that protects them from ill-treatment. [[Applause]] Give body, consistency and concreteness to actions. We write it in the Constitution. The Constitution is our Charter. The Constitution intercepts tensions and aspirations and, when it recognizes them as fundamental rights, makes them live as a shared heritage, so that the State, understood as a community of citizens, recognizes us. But if you deny these things already in the Constitution, if you already oppose them, it is clear that the rest is propaganda and from propaganda you are buried. [[Applause]] The same could be said of the bill "save sea," which is still. The sea is suffocated by waste, due to the disastrous impact of plastic. I am particularly proud, happy and excited because the Movimento 5 Stars has always in DNA - as has been said - the theme of the environment. We are finding ourselves, we are reprogramming on the issue of the environment, which is central to our movement, but also to our planet. Our actions, our policies have always been about protecting the environment and for us to write it in the Constitution, is a lesson for our children and our students, because we are doing it in this House. From there a new cultural model will begin, already from the Constitution: this is an important moment. At Movimento 5 Stars we owe, in the previous legislature, the law against the eco-reats, which secures or restores some support and help to those who fought against pollution, those who lived on plains where there were spills of poisonous mud, toxic fires, asbestos: this is an act due. How do you, ladies and gentlemen, say it is not useful, it is not important or it is not on the agenda? It is another demonstration of how politics goes on its own and leaves the people who are fighting on the street. Someone was called "poor crazy" or "dreamer" for the battles made in relation to the issue of the former Ilva plant. [[Applause]] We also give some dignity to those people, colleagues, and the Movimento does, it always has. [[Applause]] This feeling has been anticipated. Of course, I would like to point out that, for the sake of our respect for the Constitution, the words included in the amendment are an addition, they have not deleted any of the previous words. They intercepted, as I said, the new tensions, the new needs, in an innovative vision. And that's why a Republic that recognizes the environment, together with the artistic and historical heritage of the nation, also with respect to ecosystems and biodiversity, is an advanced Republic, is a new, fast country. The Constitutional Charter, republican and democratic, safeguards lives in all its forms, as far as they come. I therefore vote in favour of the Movimento 5 Star Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u30	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u31	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u32	RICHETTI (Mixed-+Eu-Az). Mr President, this first reading of the draft law amending the Constitution was accompanied by a level debate. I listened to the speeches of my colleagues today and followed the work in the Commission. No one is opposed to the principle of environmental protection and I will therefore abstain, but certainly not in disagreement with what has been said. We have tried to amend the draft law in question, which is linked to the introduction of the principle of sustainable development. It is not a question of goat wool; if there were Minister Giovannini it would give more authoritative voice than mine to this principle: sustainable development is not only linked to the environmental issue, but is also linked to all the actions aimed at sustainability between generations, equal opportunities, dynamics that affect the economy and the work of this country. It would certainly have been a stronger and more binding principle than the Constitutional Charter, but they would have been virtuous tracks for the legislative action that this Parliament is responsible for. So, Mr President, I am abstaining on this measure, partly because, as the first reading, I hope that this abstention will be accompanied by a rethinking. We shall continue to propose amendments to this effect, including in the Chamber of Deputies. There has been attention, also in the work of the Commission, but I believe that this risk of being a missed opportunity if we confine ourselves to the environmental issue alone. It is very good to protect the environment and animals, but we also think of the next generations, who often deserve some extra attention.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u33	Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I call on the unanimous vote by simultaneous ballot of the unified text of constitutional law no. 83, 212, 938, 1203, 1532, 1627, 1632 and 2160 as a whole, in the amended text, with the following title: "Amendments to Articles 9 and 41 of the Constitution on the protection of the environment" (The vote was followed). The Senate approves in first resolution. [[See Annex B. Applause.]] I am suspending the sitting until 3.30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 10.41 a.m. and resumed at 337 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u34	The next item is the debate on the draft law no. 1443 and 1521. The rapporteur, Senator Montani, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Law No 266 of 23 December 2005 in paragraphs 337 and 340 introduced an experimental quota of 5 per thousand of the amount on the income of natural persons (Irpef), to be allocated to the taxpayer's choice, to non-profit organisations, on the basis of the preferences expressed in the tax return. Over the years, this novelty has proved to be a very valuable tool, which represents for the citizen a concrete exercise of fiscal and subsidiary democracy, since it gives the taxpayer the option to choose how to use a part of their taxes, for purposes assessed within a list of public and private recipients controlled and certified by the Government. After this first application on an experimental basis, Decree-Law No 40 of 25 March 2010, converted with amendments by Law No 73 of 22 May 2010, to Article 2, paragraph 4- novies, provided that for the financial year 2010, with reference to tax returns relating to the 2009 tax period, on the basis of the criteria and modalities referred to in the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 20 January 2006, published in the Official Journal No 22 of 27 January 2006, I stop what is already due by taxpayers as a tax on the income of natural persons, a share equal to 5 per thousand of the same tax, to support volunteering, non-profit organizations of social utility, social promotion associations registered in the national regional and provincial registers, recognized associations and foundations that carry out activities in the sectors proper to the ONLUS, the financing of scientific and health research of the university and social activities carried out by the Municipality of residence of the taxpayer, as well as amateur sports associations recognized for sporting purposes by the Italian National Olympic Committee pursuant to law, carrying out a significant activity of social interest. Subsequently, Legislative Decree no. 111 of 3 July 2017, in implementation of the Legislative Decree no. 106 of 2016 for the reform of the third sector, laid down rules for the completion of the structural reform of the institution of 5 per thousand of the income tax of natural persons in compliance with the needs of rationalization and organic revision of the contribution and regulated its destination according to the choices expressed by the taxpayers. The new provisions have supplemented those already in force by contributing to the overall definition of the framework. The objective of this bill is, therefore, to extend the target of 5 per thousand to the financing of the assistance fund for personnel in service of the Finance Guard Corps, the State Police, the Carabinieri Army, the National Firefighter Corps, the Prison Police Corps, the Army, the Military Navy and the Military Air Force, as institutions of extreme importance for the good of the community and, like other associations, in need of contributions, as well as for the support, assistance and activity in favour of associates of members of their respective administrations who have died because of service or service. The contribution of 5 per thousand would prove to be a valuable tool in that from the resources obtained from this contribution it will be possible to realize purposes in favor of the service of relief carried out for the benefit of the whole community and to buy important equipment to face emergency situations and increase safety, which is an essential factor for the economic revival of the country and for the improvement of the quality of life of the citizens. Citizens will therefore be able to choose, in an alternative way, to which of the aforementioned administrations to allocate their share. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u36	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u37	Mr President, I reserve the right to speak later.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u38	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am distributing it - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration, which will be published in the annex to today's report. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u39	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u41	CUCCA (IV-PSI). Mr President, the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we are about to adopt a measure which deals with the regulation of 5 per thousand of the income tax of individuals. The 5 per thousand is obviously a very valuable instrument, which represents for the citizen a concrete possibility to choose how to use a part of the taxes paid and to whom to allocate them. From the point of view of the institutions that can benefit from it, they have been so far non-profit entities and public administrations, whose activities fall within the aims defined by the founding law. The objective pursued by the bill that we examine today is to extend the destination of this 5 per thousand to the financing of the sectors of the Forces of order that daily deal with our security. We are talking about the Finance Guard, the State Police, the Carabinieri Army, the National Firefighters Corps, the Prison Police, the Army, the Navy and the Air Force. In addition, the draft law also provides for the possibility of allocating this quota to support and assistance, as well as to activities in favour of joint members of their respective administrations, who have lost their lives either because of service or directly in service. At this point it is necessary to make some considerations. You will also have considered the fact that some political groups have abstained on this measure, which has objectively raised some concerns. However, what I am going to talk about concerns exclusively the method used, not the merit, as the Italian Group Viva - Italian Socialist Party agrees perfectly on the merit of the measure itself. That is good to clarify, without the words I am about to say being used in an instrumental way. We are aware that the ratio of the institute of 5 per thousand is in some ways different from that which supports the measure we are discussing. The 5 per thousand is born with a precise aim: to support third sector organisations, because they carry out an important activity towards the community. Technically, therefore, the 5 per thousand to the Forces of Order is not the most suitable instrument to use, but we must recognize that the purpose of this provision is absolutely worthy. It is not in fact an instrument to be used against these Forces to give support or some kind of contribution, but it is a matter of supporting the interests of the Forces of the Order themselves, which, as we know, find themselves very often working and operating in conditions of extreme discomfort, both because of lack of economic resources, and because of lack of resources of a technical nature. Of course, however, it must be pointed out that the instrument of 5 per thousand has an absolutely random nature, considering that it is not known and you will not be able to know how much it will be destined to the Forces of order. In this respect, therefore, it is certainly not the most suitable instrument. It will certainly fill - at least in part - the shortcomings that have been brought to our attention many times, precisely because there is a shortage of resources that will reverberate both the technical and the staff. This, despite the Forces of Order, especially in this year of pandemic, we have made a significant contribution - and I would say, indeed, decisive and indispensable - to the correct performance of their functions, objectively in favour of the community, taking, among other things, all the risks that we know well and that are however intuitable. Having said that, there are undoubtedly priorities that concern both how urgent it is in everyday life and the wider interventions necessary for the organizational and functional structure that must be achieved in the future. We must therefore point out - and this is what we hope - that we will have to give a more pressing, more urgent, more complete and more satisfying response to the forces of order that are so much endeavouring. Let us remember that during the year of pandemic the Forces of the Order did not stop for a moment; they carried out their activity daily in the interest of the community, assuming all the risks and, very often, in conditions of extreme criticality due to lack of means and men. Yet, there have been. Many times we have thanked them and I believe that today is once again the time to express a very heartfelt thanks to the Forces of Order, knowing, however, that there is a need - I repeat - to give much more. At this point we must take care of these shortcomings, which will have to be addressed in a later period, with measures that ensure, in the long run, satisfaction to the forces of order themselves. Moreover, it should be pointed out that, on the front of the support and assistance for activities in favour of the associates of members of the Forces of the order deceased in service or for reason of service, it would also have been correct to provide for the establishment of a specific association, directed, precisely, to obtain the funds of 5 per thousand in a more suitable way than the ratio of the law of the 5 per thousand institution itself. However, we must note that we are in an emerging phase, in which we need to channel all our forces so that we can respond effectively to those sectors which are experiencing enormous difficulties. Therefore, the commitment will have to be to provide them with adequate assistance. It must be pointed out that, thanks to the economic resources that will come from the 5 per thousand, on the basis of a purely statistical data, the Firefighters' Corps, for example, will be able to realize its aims in favor of the rescue service: to buy important equipment, fundamental to face emergency and danger situations, which at this moment cannot do because of lack of resources. Instead, for the Financial Guard, for example, since the tax quota appears closely linked to the institutional mission, it will be possible to counter the phenomenon of tax evasion and avoidance by providing new instruments for this category of the Forces of Order. In essence, it is a support tool, but only temporary. I hope we don't stop here in support of law enforcement. Security is a decisive factor for the economic recovery of the country, for the improvement of the quality of life of citizens, for the carrying out of social, cultural and entrepreneurial activities; therefore, our Forces of the Order must be put in condition to operate with absolute dignity, with the minimum endowments required, in the face of a responsibility that, as said, is immense and sometimes goes even beyond the purely institutional tasks of the Forces of the Order themselves. Targeting 5 per thousand to these categories will also provide citizens with an instrument and a useful means to support those men who daily endanger their lives to ensure our safety and safety. It will be a small breath of air in view of the necessary more structural and structured interventions. This is a small sign and a way to involve citizens in choices. On behalf of the Italian Group Viva-PSI, I therefore vote in favour of the measure under consideration, aware however that all the security bodies of the State are essential for our society and the functioning of the State itself, which then means tranquility for all of us citizens. Once again, the representatives of the Forces of Order should be applauded and thanked, but also our firm encouragement, with the desire and hope that they will be increasingly strengthened and put in a position to work better and live up to the role of immense responsibility that they are called to carry out daily to our protection.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u42	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u44	RAUTI (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with reference to the draft laws under discussion today (Act 1443 and Act 1521), both at the first signature of Senator Rufa, regarding the 5 per thousand target to the Finance Guard, the State Police, the Carabinieri's Armor or the National Firefighters' Corps, I feel I can say that I have followed them from the beginning, that I have shared them and that I have contributed substantially and decisively to the drafting of the text before the Assembly. In May 2020, in the Committee on Defence, having to and wanting to give the rapporteur an opinion in favour of what my colleague Mr Rufa has proposed, I suggested extending the audience of the beneficiaries. In order to improve this proposal, Mr De Bertoldi presented an amendment in the Finance and Treasure Committee, signed by other colleagues, to extend the 5 per thousand destination also to the Italian Army, the Navy and the Air Force. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u45	Colleagues, you can't even hear my colleague's speech from here. Please lower your voice.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u46	Please, Senator Rauti. RAUTI (FdI). If we wanted to reconstruct the process that led us to this point, we could say that the bill No. 1443 provided for the destination of 5 per thousand in favor of the Finance Guard, the State Police, the Carabinieri's Army and the National Firefighter's Corps, while the bill No. 1521 also included the prison police force. In the Defence Committee, the proposal to extend the audience included the Italian Army, the Navy and the Air Force. [[Applause]] That is why the provision is very close to our heart. I would add that the Government, then in the figure of the Undersecretary Tofalo, was also in favour of our proposal, which passed unanimously, to extend the destination to all the Armed Forces. A colleague, who then voted in favour, made an absolutely legitimate objection to the fact that, by extending the audience, the amount of resources would be reduced. From a mathematical point of view, this reasoning does not turn a blind eye, but today I repeat what I said then, namely that, despite this quantitative reflection, we cannot lose sight of the main objective and not include some bodies of the Armed Forces would be an unmotivated and unjustified exclusion, as well as discrimination. This is how we come to the present day and we are particularly pleased to be able to support, support and vote in favour of this measure, because we are very concerned that it has achieved the objective of a balanced and composite audience, which includes all the Armed Forces. We also care, as my colleague said before, about the 5 per thousand institute, that is, the possibility of assigning the 5 per thousand of the Irpef due, a faculty that is given and which as you know started experimentally in 2006 and as such arrived until 2010 and only subsequently had its stabilization with the law of stability of 2014 and then 2015. The principle that we like to share with this stabilized instrument is that it is a matter of allocating part of our Irpef to those sectors of recognized public interest that carry out activities of social benefit. We are talking, ladies and gentlemen, about volunteering, about the third sector, including scientific research, about health research, which is never as important as today, about social policies. So let's talk about a world that we could define - if you pass me the expression - a crutch of welfare, that is a world that fills gaps, is the non-profit world as a whole, that fills the gaps when maybe the State, the public does not arrive; it is that world that creates inclusion, that feels the grand plot of society. When we make our tax returns, that is what we must think about, when we decide, with little, with a contribution that costs us nothing, to support those who commit themselves to a sense of community and belonging to the whole of society. [[Applause]] That is the meaning of this bill. We care for this, for the extension of the audience to the Armed Forces, and finally because we also want to allocate this small contribution so that the beneficiaries can devote it to the support of the families of the fallen victims by serving. [[Applause]] This is also a recognition, so it is not a small measure, perhaps from a quantitative point of view, but of great value from a symbolic, moral and also qualitative point of view. At a time when, moreover, we hear so much about the reform of justice - which is an urgency, but of course not within the substance of the matter - how can we, while we feel this urgency, not introduce small acts of justice? What we are voting on today is an act of justice. From my and my Group's point of view, it is also the recognition of an instrument, the 5 per thousand, which has a social utility, but in this case it is also the recognition of the service, of the sacrifice, of the daily commitment of all those who have been inserted as beneficiaries in the audience. It is a sign of attention also to the families of the victims, of those who have fallen and sacrificed themselves to serve the community and even if I do not make illusions and I know well that this is the classic drop in the sea, I think it is still a sign, a certificate, a sign, a recognition, I would say also due, because we are all good at saying thanks to the Armed Forces, to the firefighters, to all those who are part of this audience, but then we do not think of them. Moreover, even if it is a drop in the sea it is very significant and that is why Brothers of Italy will vote in favour. It is significant because, among other things, at the time when we make the tax return, with that small choice, by ticking a box, we give not only a contribution, but also a certificate and recognition. I am convinced that this reduces the distance and brings all taxpayers closer to our armed forces and our law enforcement forces. And there is a deep need for this in our nation. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u47	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u49	MIRABELLI (PD). Mr President, we are talking about a measure that was approved in another context in 2019. I would like to make, in the explanation of vote, a reflection related to the instrument that this text proposes to dedicate to the financing of Forces of Order, Army, Prison Police, etc. The instrument is 5 per thousand; an instrument that in our system we have decided to devote to the third sector, to associationism, to those who perform a social function, giving citizens the opportunity to choose to support, within the world of the third sector and associationism, the causes that they think deserve to receive funding. I think this is the starting point. Then it is clear - and I agree, we have often said so in these years and also in these months - that there is no doubt about the need to implement (and we have also done so) the funding for the Forces of Order, for the Army, for the Prison Police, for those who in these years and in these hard months of the pandemic have made a fundamental contribution to the country. However, I believe that this need must be met without seeking shortcuts. In the debate on the budget, in November and December, we will have to make it clear that the Army, the prison police force, the Air Force, the law enforcement forces must be supported more and better than we have been able to do. But this must above all be the task of the state budget. I do not believe that we can delegate or condition the weight of funding to these bodies of the State to 5 per thousand; I do not believe that we can put the funding back to the Forces of Order in the hands of the citizen's will, who decides to allocate 5 per thousand to this or to that. I believe that the serious problem that is being posed must be resolved in the budget. Obviously one thing is to think that the 5 per thousand can be destined to a fundamental body, such as that of the Fire Department, which plays a very important function and which we know lives a situation of dramatic precariousness, other is to say, as the bill states, that it is necessary and can be allocated 5 per thousand for the assistance and activities in favor of the joint members of the military administrations or of the forces of the order deceased because of service or in service. That's something else. I therefore call on the House to consider this matter. For the Forces of Order and the Army, we need a commitment that we all need to make together to bring in substantial budget resources. On this we must all commit ourselves and the PD will commit itself, but on the rest remains a doubt for us and the conviction remains that the 5 per thousand must be devoted to social commitment, to the third sector, to associationism, certainly also to the associations that help the relatives of the members of the Forces of the Order who have lost their lives in service. But the rest - I repeat - must be left to the state budget. That is why we will abstain and commit ourselves in the budget to guarantee more funds to the law enforcement and prison police. The measure of the financing of the bodies of the State - I repeat - cannot be entrusted to 5 per thousand or to the choice of the citizen of the recipient of 5 per thousand. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u50	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u52	GIARRUSSO (Mixed). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that my vote will be in favour, although some of my colleagues in the Mixed Group will abstain. It will be in favour of this 5 per thousand, albeit with all the reservations I share. I also believe that it is a drop in the sea of the things that should be done for the many people who, with the uniform of the Forces of Order and the various groups of the Armed Forces, have committed themselves and commit themselves every day to the security of the citizens. I am speaking in an explanation of vote to remind you of those who, within these categories, have an even more difficult position than their colleagues. We who for more than a year have been in full emergency and we see every day the teams of the Forces of Order, we see the men in uniform of the firemen spend, twenty-four hours, for the health and safety of the citizens, we cannot on a day like today do not remember that there are among them 10,000 precarious. There are among these precarious people who have been firefighters for thirty years, colleagues: a shame without limits, hidden by legal artifices that define them as discontinuous. Yet these discontinuous, defined precarious by Europe that is about to condemn our country, sometimes put us back in life by helping people. Then I believe that we must vote in favour, but we must also remember in this House that it would be right and proper to proceed with the stabilisation of the 10 000 precarious firefighters before the ax of the European Union and the judiciary intervenes on it, because it will intervene to stop this shame that is no longer sustainable. Moreover, it is not an economically burdensome intervention, because these people are being paid; it is a matter of minimum resources to guarantee equal rights, because the shed blood of a precarious firefighter is the same as that of his stabilized and role-playing colleague and we do not understand why he and his family should not have the same protection as their colleagues. I therefore call on you to vote in favour of this measure, but we must not forget - and I also say this to the Government - this category, which we must not only remember when some of them lose their lives for the safety of their citizens. Let us rather honor them by doing our duty before they remind us of the judiciary and Europe. We establish the precarious firefighters, which are such for the 1999 rules approved by this Parliament on a Brussels directive and which will shortly be applied in the courts, where the judgments against the State promoted by these people, which must be addressed to the judiciary in order to see their rights protected, acting against the State they serve with great dignity and honor. That is why I am voting in favour and I call on my fellow Members to take action in this respect.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u53	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u55	Toffanin (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the objective of the bill, as we have already heard, is to extend the choice of 5 per thousand to the assistance fund for the staff of the Carabinieri's Army, the State Police, the National Firefighters' Corps, the Finance Guard, the Prison Police Corps, the Army, the Military Navy, the Military Air Force and for the support of their relatives who have suffered the loss of their loved ones for reasons of service. There is no doubt that the staff of the above-mentioned administrations carry out a service for the community and that their services have a high social value which is often not commensurate satisfactorily with adequate remuneration. In this year of pandemic we saw with our own eyes and touched with hand how decisive the activity carried out by all the representatives of the Forces of the Order and the Armed Forces was. In addition, we, the representatives of the institutions, are well aware that many more resources should also be made available for the payment of overtime that their activities require, especially in times of emergency such as those we are experiencing. In this sense, the Government has a duty to assume its responsibilities by finally allocating structural measures and adequate resources for staff, for means, for security, in the appropriate budget law. The State must be present alongside its own men and women, because we must distinguish the costs for the operation of our forces from those for solidarity, for their way of working and for their families. The work of these men and women, in fact, is not only a profession, but a mission in which unfortunately you risk your life and also for this reason you must not consider this measure as a substitute for the action of government [[Applause]] With the destination of 5 per thousand, as well as that of 8 per thousand and 2 per thousand, the taxpayer has the option to choose who to give part, even if minimal, of their own taxes. In this sense the citizens have an opportunity, the most liberal, which is to be able to choose. I would like to remind you that it was the Berlusconi Government that experimentally instituted this measure, the one of 5 per thousand, with the financial law of 2006, to support non-profit organizations, activities aimed at health and scientific research, activities socially useful, giving the taxpayer the power to decide who specifically. Sixteen million Italians appreciated and used this instrument, demonstrating sensitivity and attention to the world to which it is reserved. After 2006, a ceiling of expenditure for the purposes to which 5 per thousand is directed was introduced. I would remind you that the 2020 Budget Act allocated 520 million for 2021 and 525 million for 2022. Faced with this limited fund and now with the increase in the audience of beneficiaries, we believe it is necessary that the Government undertakes to allocate more resources, in order to avoid penalising those associations that are currently the only recipients. This must be done all the more so at this historic moment, where research and solidarity are the key words of the pandemic. The blanket is always too short and should therefore be managed effectively so that multiplier effects can be produced for the welfare of the community. Forza Italia votes in favour of the measure, because we want to consider the destination of 5 per thousand as a focus on the social activity operated by the Armed Forces and the Forces of Order; because we want to represent the closeness and recognition to wives, children, mothers and fathers who have lost their loved ones in service; because we want to consider the destination of 5 per thousand as a way to enhance these categories and to raise awareness of citizens to be closer to the representatives of the Forces of Order and the Armed Forces, which often, in the collective imagination, are considered not so much as heroic figures but as antagonists. And we do this so that the need to allocate these resources to them becomes a warning for the Government to do much more for those who every day devote themselves, even at the cost of their lives, to guarantee the order, legality, security and representativeness of our country in any situation and in any adversity. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u56	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u58	RUFA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, one day we will be able to say: I too have participated in building the future of the family of a man or woman who have had so much courage and love for the uniform that they have sacrificed their lives. [[Applause]] It is an honour and also a duty to vote in favour of a bill that assures certainties to those who leave the house every day knowing that they risk their lives for the good of all and for the good of the country. The uniform that these men and women wear is their moral and deontological armor, but leave a fund, obtained from the 5 per thousand destined for families thanks to the bill nn. 1443 and 1521, is a concrete act, which every citizen can carry out freely and no longer only in words. The servants of the state, the Carabinieri's weapon, the National Firefighter's Corps, the State Police, the Finance Guard, the Army, the Prison Police, the Navy, the Air Force with such a bill fall into a category of tax relief destination that caused someone's nose to stumble. But why have doubts? Why tempt the idea of being able to assign, with your own Irpef, a small figure, but that could realize the dream of a child raised without a mother or a father? Mother Teresa of Calcutta said: what we can do is just a drop in the ocean. But if there weren't such a drop in the ocean, the ocean would miss it. Why, then, question the sacrifices of men and women in uniform? There will always be exceptions in life and this, in case, could be the most justified. How can we deny this possibility to those who like the police invoke uprightness to minds, vigor to values, honesty to affections, serenity in homes? Who, like the prison police, asks for light and strength [[Applause]] To those who, like the firemen, say that the risk is their daily bread. To those who, like the Carabinieri, ask to arouse in each one the enthusiasm to witness faithfully to the death of love for God and for the Italian brothers and sisters. Who, like the Italian Army, asks for protection after leaving their homes to serve Italy. To those who, like the sailors, pray the blessing of distant houses and our people. To those who, as for the financiers, pray to be strong of the faith in order to face labors and dangers, ingenious fraternities of intent, offering to the Homeland its own obedience and its own serene sacrifice. To those who, like the Air Force, pray that no shadow touches our land. These are the prayers that men and women in uniform honor in daily acts for the good of our generations, so that they may grow in the worship of the just and the legality. These are their values. Therefore, do not hesitate to adopt a bill allowing men and women in uniform to have a concrete response from us as well. We have no justification for this choice, but far from it, we have the opportunity to exalt its intent; to leave the house in uniform and to know that their loved ones will never be left alone. [[Applause.]] This is what conscience and gratitude asks of us. To their prayers today we can answer without any doubt; the League thanks, honors, loves men and women in uniform and whatever the opportunity to show affection and respect for their sacrifices, we will be there, always at their side. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u59	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u61	D'ANGELO (M5S). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law before us, in the text proposed by the Commission, which merges and summarises the two draft laws no. 1443 and 1521 presented in the Commission, its main aim is to contribute to the strengthening of the security of our country. He does so by inserting to article 3, of paragraph 1, of decree-law n. 111 of 2017, own in the matter of 5 per thousand, also the possibility to finance the Fund assistance for the personnel in service of the corps of the Guardia di Finanza, the State Police, the Arm of the Carabinieri, the National Corps of the firefighters or the prison police, the Army, the Navy and the military Air Force, as well as for the support, the assistance and the activity in favor of the associates of belongings to the respective administrations, deceased for reason of service or in service. Of course, support for this sector is always a good thing for us. It is necessary for Parliament to be constantly involved in this matter. However, the 5 Star Movement considers it useful to carry out some reflections, also in the light of the policies carried out concretely in our experiences of Government. The effectiveness and operational capacity of our police forces depends primarily on the direct action of the Government and Parliament through economic measures, as well as on the work carried out in the administration of internal security at ministerial level. In other words, the necessary funds must be allocated in the budget laws and other financial measures. [[Applause]] And that's exactly what we did with the Count I and Count II Governments. Just as an example, I would like to mention the investments made in increasing the organic plants of the police forces and in adjusting the salaries of firefighters. Moreover, we must not lose sight of the meaning and objective for which the 5 per thousand is born: it has in fact an exquisitely social function, because thanks to this instrument citizens can allocate a small part of their income taxes to support the formidable world of the third sector, of volunteering and a model of solidarity and widespread civic commitment, which is a pride for our country. There are cases in which the work commitment and volunteering meet in a virtuous union: it is the case, for example, of many members of the Forces of Order, who offer their work even outside working hours. And this is yet another demonstration of generosity on the part of these servants of the State. So, in conclusion, if, for a verse, it is understandable the intention to extend such an effective and important instrument, to the benefit of the security sector, it is good not to lose sight of the centrality of the role of the State in giving proper support, including financial support, to women and men who work night and day for our tranquility, and the primarily social function of 5 per thousand. I therefore take full note of the commitment of the political force that I represent to do more and more on this issue, for the allocation of new and more resources. For all these reasons, I announce the vote in favour of the Movimento 5 Star Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u62	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the unified text of the draft law no. 1443 and 1521, as a whole, with the following title: Changes to the regulation of the institution of five per thousand of the income tax of natural persons, referred to in Legislative Decree no. 111 of 3 July 2017. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u63	The next item is the debate on the 2007 draft law, which has already been approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Ferrara, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u64	Mr President, this draft law, for which I would like to thank Mr Iolanda Di Stasio, is based on the provisions of the 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, ratified and enforced by our country under Law No 689 of 1994, which constitutes an exhaustive code, aimed at regulating the behaviour of States on the seas and oceans, as well as the exploitation of resources and the protection of the natural environment in these areas. I would remind you that the exclusive economic zone may extend no more than 200 miles from the baselines from which the territorial sea is measured. Unlike the continental shelf, the exclusive economic zone (EEZ) in order to become effective must be the subject of an official proclamation by the coastal state, then notified to the international community. The system of delimiting the EEZs between states with adjacent or opposite coasts, similar to that envisaged for the continental shelf, must be agreed so as to achieve a fair solution. The continental shelf constitutes, instead, the underwater area extending beyond the territorial waters through the natural extension of the territory emerged up to the outer limit of the continental margin or up to the distance of 200 miles from the base lines, if the continental margin does not reach that distance. That of the 200 miles is ultimately regarded by the Convention as the minimum limit of the continental shelf. Third States shall have the traditional freedom of the high seas under the conditions laid down by the coastal State, i.e. navigation, overflight, fishing and laying of submarine cables and pipes. Moreover, the rights of the coastal state on its continental shelf belong to it and therefore do not need to be proclaimed. In the Mediterranean basin, where the distance between the opposites is always less than 400 miles, in view of the need to protect its fish resources from the continuous depletion carried out by fishing fleets from the Far East or with the aim of protecting the coasts from pollution risks, many States have long established the EEE or the areas in which to exercise part of the functional rights related to the EEZs. The importance of the definition of maritime areas seems crucial and some recent episodes testify to this. I am thinking, for example, of the many dramatic accidents in the waters between Italy and Libya, places already reported as high risk for our ships and in which for years now navigation is not recommended. These areas fall within the protected fishing zone proclaimed by the country in February 2005. This is a legitimate proclamation in the light of international law, but on which our country had expressed formal reservations regarding the closure of the Gulf of Sirte. In 2009, Libya also proclaimed an exclusive economic zone without, however, defining its external limits with neighbouring and frontist states. Also worthy of mention is the case of Algeria, which in 2018 unilaterally established an exclusive economic zone that leaves the Italian territorial waters for a stretch of more than 70 nautical miles with some points about 30 kilometers from the coasts of Sardinia. Italy has repeatedly contested the Algerian decision taken in breach of Article 74 of the Montego Bay Convention. A joint technical commission between Italy and Algeria was set up during 2020 in order to achieve a fair and mutually acceptable solution in accordance with the principles of international law. [[Brusio.]] President, you feel very little; there is an incredible confusion. The draft law in question aims to fill what appears to be an obvious gap in our country by authorising the establishment of an exclusive economic zone beyond the external limit of the Italian territorial sea. The external limits of the EEZ will be determined on the basis of agreements with States whose territory is adjacent to or facing the Italian one. Article 2 states that within the exclusive economic zone... [[Brusio.]] There's a background noise; I don't know if you can't hear it.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u65	This is not the first time that the Presidency has referred to this House. It is not the case to gesticulate, also because it is completely useless.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u66	Mr Ferrara, rapporteur. Mr President, it is your job to ensure that the silence in this House is respected. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Yes, it was not addressed to her, who could in fact quietly continue the intervention from the planned location. We will ask you to turn your voice up a little bit and again to your colleagues to lower their voices. FERRARA (M5S). Article 2 provides that Italy shall exercise the sovereign rights conferred by the international rules in force within the exclusive economic zone. Finally, Article 3 states that the establishment of the EEZ does not affect the exercise, in accordance with international law, of the freedom of navigation, of overflight and laying by pipelines or submarine cables, as well as of the other rights provided for by the international rules in force. In conclusion, the draft law is proposed by the Assembly. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u67	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator D'Alfonso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u68	Madam President, thank you for this exclusive, which certainly gives attention. Although I am aware of a gentlemen's agreement to proceed quickly, to draw Parliament's attention and, to follow, also the Italian government's order on this subject. We now proceed to decide on the establishment of an exclusive economic area, which is treated as a resource. We are, after seven years, failing to comply with the European directive on the conjugation of maritime space and land for urban planning. Again, we consider the sea a resource, so much so that it becomes an exclusive area economically. From 2014 to 2021 we lost seven years with regard to the establishment of harmonisation between land and water for urban planning. I hope that once we can proceed to an organic and coordinated vision regarding the planning of the use of unrepeatable goods as they are land and sea. My intervention serves to stimulate an adequate treatment of this matter. My vote will of course be in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u69	The general debate is closed. The rapporteur gave up his reply. I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u70	Madam President, I am speaking briefly because I believe that today's vote is an important moment for our country. Let me first of all thank all the Members, in particular the proposer, Mr Di Stasio, for the measure is the result of a fruitful work carried out by the two Chambers, with an intense and constructive intercourse between Parliament and the Government. This is a very important measure, because, in addition to being fully in line with international law and the progressive tendency to extend the sovereignty and jurisdiction rights of coastal states in waters beyond their territorial sea, it includes all the clauses contained in the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, concluded in Montego Bay in December 1982 (UNCLOS). Why do I say it's an important rule? Because the trend since the 2000s, especially in the Mediterranean, has been that of a progressive unilateral declaration of exclusive economic zones. Despite the difficulty of being members of the Montego Bay Convention, because there are 200 miles between the coasts, especially since 2010 more and more countries have unilaterally defined exclusive economic zones, with problems that you have also faced in Parliament, such as those related, for example, to the unilateral declarations by Algeria or Libya, which directly influence the Italian economy, with effects also linked to security in the Mediterranean. Italy had never had the opportunity to declare an exclusive economic zone to date, because it needed a piece of legislation such as the one you are preparing to vote on today. We had limited ourselves, over the years, to declaring some areas of ecological protection, with different legislative acts; it is exclusively those in the Tyrrhenian Sea, in the Ligurian Sea and in the Sea of Sardinia. With this rule, therefore, it will also be possible to go in the direction of exclusive economic zones. In June 2020 we concluded a very important agreement on the demarcation of territorial waters with Greece. And we have started bilateral negotiations with Algeria - as well as with Croatia - which give us, within UNCLOS, the opportunity to clearly safeguard our national interests, but do not give a fundamental instrument such as that of the unilateral declaration, which means not to force an agreement, but to have an additional weapon, a further instrument of protection. In the near future - which is why I wanted to report in this brief speech - we will start, thanks to this rule, a specific conversation with Libya, Malta and France on the demarcation of territorial waters; an argument which - I know for a fact - you know is very important and current. This is an additional instrument that we can benefit from in this way. And we do so in the interest of protecting the Mediterranean as an ecological zone, but also as an economic resource for the country, for everything that is affluent to the fishing and also to the mining capacities of the Mediterranean; in the interest of protection, of course, because this is not so shared, perhaps, by other States on the opposite shore of the Mediterranean and, therefore, of the interest of our country. For this reason, once again, I thank you and I am sure that the rule under consideration is of great benefit to the country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u71	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am distributing it - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration, which will be published in the annex to today's report. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u72	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u74	Garavini (IV-PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, 30% of world oil trade passes from the Mediterranean; one fifth of all maritime traffic, including container traffic; 65% of the energy flow for the countries of the European Union and one third of all world tourism. In short, it is not excessive to talk about the centrality of the Mediterranean and to emphasize how strategic it is - also for our country - the establishment of an EEZ, that is an exclusive economic zone, that legitimizes our projection in the Mediterranean beyond the external limit of the territorial sea. The EEZs - as the rapporteur rightly said - extend up to 200 nautical miles off the coast of a state. From a legal point of view they represent the territorialization of the sea, that is, they allow the exploitation of natural resources both on the seabed and in the column of water above, allowing the state that claims it to consolidate its sovereignty. Here the establishment of the EEZ is an important part for our country from the economic and political point of view in relations with the various countries of the Mediterranean. We experienced this just a few weeks ago, with the tragic attack by the Libyan Coast Guard on our fishing vessels. On that occasion it was seen in a plastic way how important it is to be able to count on the definition of clear and shared maritime borders, in order to assert its rights at international level and, at the same time, to be able to reject the attacks of others. In the Mediterranean basin the distance between the opposite coasts is often less than 400 miles. Many states - I am thinking of Croatia, France, Spain, Tunisia, Libya, but also Cyprus, Egypt, Israel, Lebanon, Morocco, Monaco, Syria and Turkey - have long established their respective EEZs also in order to protect their fish resources from the continuous depletion carried out by rival fishing fleets, often from the Far East. Up to now Italy has remained foreign to this process: a partially incomprehensible attitude, since our country, even before the principle of the EEZ was established, had already defined most of the borders of its continental platform through specific bilateral agreements with different countries (borders that are also valid for the EEZ). Italy was the first of the Mediterranean States to enter into negotiations for the conclusion of agreements to delimit the continental shelf, but then we stayed behind on the establishment of the economic zone. This is a paradox that we are now going to fill with the draft law under consideration. The establishment of the EEZ in the Italian seas is therefore a positive novelty, because so too our country will benefit from a sovereign right to exploration, exploitation, conservation and management of the biological and mineral natural resources found in the waters and above the bottom of the sea, as well as on the bottom and in its subsoil. It is important to preserve and protect our sea because it is a resource from which we can derive great economic benefits, for example by implementing new forms of energy production and supporting fishing activities, which are the main object of the economic sovereignty of the coastal state. Essentially, the adoption of this measure provides Italy with a necessary instrument, in order to recover the lost time so far, guaranteeing national sovereignty over our sea in terms of both security and economic benefit, and ensuring that the centrality of the Mediterranean is increasingly a priority on the agenda of our foreign policy. Mr President, for these reasons I am voting in favour of my Group. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u75	Colleagues, I would not like to have to call on you individually to respect a minimum of silence. I understand that today's attention is a distant goal, but we allow colleagues at least to be able to make their speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u76	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u78	Mr Alfieri (PD). Mr President, I rise to vote in favour of the Democratic Party and to thank the representative of the Government who, in his speech, has focused the point, namely the need to go beyond the logic of ecological protection and fisheries areas. Today we see how the delimitation of territorial waters and exclusive economic zones is a matter of geopolitics, because the Montego Bay Convention and all the others in the United Nations have been designed especially for the oceans, where the limit of 200 miles on one side and on the other does not lead to particularly complicated clashes to be resolved. It is clear that in the territory, however, where no coastal country can fully exercise its - let's call it - limited sovereignty over a 200-mile area, because distances are much shorter, all this has created disagreements, disputes, problems. As we know, the exclusive economic zone extends on sensitive issues, which are also decisive for the economies of the coastal countries. Let us look at the issue of energy, the issues of installations for scientific research and, in particular, the sensitive issue of fisheries. It is clear that international conventions also regulate the possibility of the use and exploitation of these resources also by distant States that do not affect those zones, which would have no rights, but mainly concern Italy, which is immersed in the Mediterranean and up to now has not defined an instrument to identify an exclusive economic zone and becomes decisive. The case of Algeria mentioned is a striking example of the problems we had at the time when it identified and built its own area that went directly to lapped the territorial waters of Sardinia and, therefore, Italy. On the other hand, we have seen clearly how the fact that we have not identified an exclusive economic zone - for example - with Libya has caused enormous problems in terms of protecting also the fishing activities of our compatriots, especially Sicilians; and there have been informal agreements such as those made by Federpesca - for example - directly with unrecognized, but tolerated Haftar: the Ministry of Foreign Affairs called for caution and signaled that a mistake was being made, yet those things were being done. I think everything should be brought back to the beehive of legality. The identification of the exclusive economic zone allows to open - I think the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will do so - then to a joint committee to arrive at an agreement on fisheries between Libya and Italy, which is no longer postponed for the safety and protection of our workers and our fishermen. Among other things, we know that some countries like Libya are not able to exploit all the fish stocks that lie in their territorial waters and in the waters of a hypothetical exclusive economic zone and, therefore, there are all the conditions to reach an agreement. It is clear that the exclusive economic zone is towards France, but - as I understand it was announced by the representative of the Government - it could also help us to solve these problems with Libya. I consider this an important step forward to find the conditions and the fertile ground to face themes that have been open for some time, which have led to events that only the patient work of Italian diplomacy and defense with the Navy on the spot has prevented them from turning into tragedy. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u79	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u81	THE MURA (Mixed). First of all, I would like to say that I will vote in favour of this measure because I think it is very important for the protection and regulation of the Italian and European sea, both for ecosystems and for the sustainable development of the blue economy. The aim of this proposal is to enable Italy to establish, by decree of the President of the Republic and subject to agreements with the contracting States, an exclusive economic zone within the meaning of the Montego Bay Convention. In the exercise of the sovereign limits attributed to the international norms in force, the marine space for which the legislative decree n. 201 of 2016 already has a process of implementation planning of obligations of the European Union by the Ministry of Infrastructures as competent authority is enlarged. With regard to marine waters, instead, Legislative Decree No. 109 of 2010 establishing and transposing the Marine Strategy Framework Directive already provides, in implementation of obligations of the European Union, a series of actions aimed at achieving and maintaining good environmental or better ecological status through a system of targets and indicators to be subject to constant monitoring by the Ministry of the Environment. Moreover, I would like to remind you that in 2011, by decree of the President of the Republic n. 209, the ecological protection zone of the north-western Mediterranean, the Ligurian Sea and the Tyrrhenian Sea was established. We know that Algeria - we know the issue well, but it is right to tell the citizens - has established an exclusive economic zone in this area, particularly in the eastern part of Sardinia and in areas of neighbouring states. Clearly, we do not agree with this and we are proceeding with diplomatic action to reach an agreement that can meet all the needs. Having said that, I would like to remind you that yesterday was World Ocean Day; as part of the event organized by Marevivo and the Embassy of Italy to the Holy See, I recalled that European environmental policies are not effective in protecting biodiversity and habitats from human pressures. The same applies to the Community's fisheries policy, which has further eroded fish stocks, putting many species at risk. This is what the European Court of Auditors verified in 2020, on the basis of an audit carried out from 2008 to 2020, to understand how the marine strategy was applied. The Court found that EU interventions did not bring the seas to a good ecological status, nor did fishing at sustainable levels for all seas. The Court's environmental assessment was also confirmed by the European Environment Agency in its 2020 report. The European Environment Agency itself indicated that only 6% of the stocks examined met the criteria of maximum sustainable yield. Among other things, only 6% of the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund (EMFF) has been used to support the conservation and protection of the marine environment and scientific research. We know that the EMFF is used exclusively to ensure that fisheries are sustainable; instead, with EMFP 2021-2027, which is currently being consulted in public, we are still going to create critical issues, derogating from certain limits that we should set. In particular, the Court suggests that the European Commission update the Annexes to the Directives "Conservation of wild birds" and "Conservation of natural and semi-natural habitats and wild flora and fauna" which are no longer than twenty-five years old and do not take into account recent scientific knowledge and endangered species. A few minutes ago, the European Commission launched an infringement procedure against Italy on the Natura 2000 network, because habitats are not respected and protected.Our marine protected areas are not effective for the protection of ecosystems and habitats and, therefore, biodiversity. I want to remind you that we must respect the guidelines of the European Biodiversity Strategy by 2030, in order to protect 30% of our seas. We already have 19 percent of protected seas, but, adding the ZEAs and the ZEEs today, and thus establishing the Italian ZEE, we will have to protect 30% of that area. Marine scientific research is already working to establish protected areas on the deep bottoms (so on the high seas), both for the seabed and for the water column. Consequently, by 2030 we will have to achieve the additional objective of protecting additional marine areas within 200 nautical miles. (17.05) (Follows LA MURA). Here everything is played on the marine space, on the regulating plane of all the activities at sea. Since we have 8,500 kilometres of coastline and are Europe's strategic hotspot, because we are at the centre of the Mediterranean, we obviously need to regulate our maritime space and we should have done so by 30 March 2021, but we have not. Unfortunately, by 2022 Europe will have to define its own regulatory area for all European activities. How are we going to give every business and every economy the right space to thrive? This is an important question that I ask the House, because at this point we must run and be quick in the realization of our maritime space. To this is added the Pitesai, which is the Sustainable Energy Transition Plan that identifies the areas suitable for the cultivation of hydrocarbons. The public consultation phase was completed and on 14 May the Technical Commission for Environmental Impact Assessment VIA-VAS delivered an opinion with several recommendations. I would like to point out one for all: it must be made clear that the continuation of mining, including the granting of new permits and concessions, is consistent with the European decarbonisation strategy and the do not significant harm principle. The Pitesai will be operational by 30 September 2021, with the consequent resumption of the activities of cultivation of suspended hydrocarbons and the new authorisations, both for the cultivation of hydrocarbons, and for the research activities. I find this unacceptable. We need to know what we want to do when we grow up. Having said that, I would like to make one more appeal to the House: drilling and offshore wind will have to contend with the maritime area and this area will also have to contend with fishing, transport and tourism. In addition, we need to find strategies for mitigation and adaptation to climate change to which we are exposed, to which 8,500 kilometres of Italian coast are exposed. We thought we would make a transition to renewable energies, which will engage the environment in terms of environmental impact, due to the consumption of additional land, but fossil energies once again become protagonists, playing on time to grab the maritime space at the expense of other commercial activities and habitats that will have to be protected in the future and that today will be destroyed. Therefore, my appeal is to ensure that the exclusive economic zone can mean starting again and trying to be consistent with what we all said yesterday, celebrating the World Oceans Day, so that we can not destroy the environment, habitats and ecosystems but create a sustainable blue economy. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u82	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u84	AIMI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, members of the Government, Undersecretary Di Stefano, ladies and gentlemen, the measure before the Senate today comes after a basically painless passage to the House, because there has been a vote essentially unanimously, and authorizes the establishment of an exclusive Italian economic zone beyond the outer limit of the famous 12 miles of territorial waters, in accordance with the provisions of international law. The limits will then be determined on the basis of agreements with the adjacent States and with those that flank Italy and, therefore, of course, with the Italian territory. In the Mediterranean area, however - and we must say this, Undersecretary - we have a dynamic geopolitical situation. There have indeed been aftershocks and I would also say some tsunami lately for what is happening and for the rapid change happened. Sea areas have also assumed an importance that our country, although having ratified international conventions - I am referring to that of Montego Bay since 1994 - unfortunately had long underestimated; think, for example, of the recent agreements between Libya and Turkey, between Greece and Egypt. Italy, however, has so far limited itself to establishing ecological protection zones, within which it can apply measures for the protection of the environment, marine ecosystems and underwater cultural heritage. Our country is trying to reach an agreement with Croatia to define our areas of influence and this is also a novelty. In this context, the agreement which we approved a few days ago concerning the demarcation of the respective maritime zones between Italy and the Hellenic Republic is included. In a closed sea such as the Mediterranean, Mr Undersecretary, there is the serious problem of the overlapping of maritime borders. It is not possible that the maximum extension of the exclusive economic zone, i.e. the 200 miles on the base line, is guaranteed without prior agreement. In the Mediterranean basin, with the aim of preserving its fish resources or protecting its coastline from pollution risks, many states have established exclusive economic zones often by converting existing ecological protection zones. The first was Tunisia, which did so in 2003, followed Libya, then again France, Spain, but also Cyprus and Egypt; we can continue remembering Israel, Lebanon, Morocco, the Principality of Monaco, Syria and Turkey. Algeria, on the other hand, established an exclusive economic zone in March 2018 without a preliminary agreement with the frontist and neighbouring States, contrary to the provisions of international law and the rules of international law. Obviously this has created problems, because so we have an area that is superimposed for 70 miles west of Sardinia from the ecological protection zone precisely established by Italy in 2011, in addition to the exclusive economic zone proclaimed Spain in 2013. At this point Italy was in a paradoxical situation and had to challenge this decision, proposing the opening of negotiations for a mutual satisfaction agreement in accordance with the principles laid down in the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. The two countries signed an agreement last March to establish a joint technical commission, with the task of delimiting their maritime areas of exclusive interest. The territorialization of marine spaces has become increasingly crucial, both politically and economically, and it is for this reason that States try to limit as much as possible the so-called international waters, claiming waters initially outside state sovereignty. The protection of the rights of the Italian marine industry in the waters of the Mediterranean is indispensable for us of Forza Italia: we must also look to the interests of the fishing of the Italian marine industry, as well as to the agreements of an international nature. In particular, what happened to the fishermen in Mazara del Vallo must no longer be repeated. [[Applause]] The attempt to board our fishing vessels from the coasts of Cyrenaica and the attack with firearms of last May against the fishing boats of Mazara del Vallo by the patrol boats of Misurata are tragedies that have been averted only thanks to the intervention respectively of the Alpine frigate and the frigate Libeccio of the Italian Navy, not to mention the seizure of Italian sailors returned to Homeland only after a long imprisonment. These are episodes that damage the image of Italy and - let me say this - Europe as well. Perhaps at this point it would be appropriate to find a diplomatic agreement, of course and primarily with Libya, to agree a provisional border accompanied by the recognition by Libya itself of the traditional activity of Italian fishermen. I say all this because I believe that only convincing diplomatic action can protect our interests in the Mediterranean, which - I repeat - are not only national but also European. The statements issued by the Libyan Premier in recent days recognize Italy as the best partner for the reconstruction of Libya and Eni as the largest partner for oil. These words also encourage the resumption of trade between the two countries. This is a circumstance that we consider to be a good auspicious, Mr Undersecretary, because we would like to bring the Mediterranean back to its vocation as a sea of peace and international freight traffic and not to see it reduced, as at this moment, also for the smuggling of migrants, unfortunately tragically to an open-air morgue. [[Applause]] Our interests cannot be separated from the energy issues and I would like to remind you that Eni controls about 45% of Libyan oil and gas production and, together with Snam, is an important partner of Algeria, with which it shares the Transmed gas pipeline, which brings Algerian gas through Tunisia to Italy and Europe. In essence, the interests of our country in the Mediterranean extend also to the east, where Eni owns as much as 50% of the gas fields between Cyprus and Israel. Italy then participates in the EastMed project, supported by the Gas Forum, political link between our country, Egypt, Greece, Cyprus, Israel, Jordan and Palestinian Authority, with the aim of enhancing gas resources in the eastern Mediterranean basin. I believe that the measure that we are about to approve is an important step to give prominence to our country's foreign policy and finally to strengthen our economic activities in the Mediterranean Sea which - I want to repeat this for the third time - are also the economic activities of our Europe. For these reasons, the Forza Italia Group will vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u85	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u87	IWOBI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law allows the introduction of an exclusive economic zone beyond the external limit of the Italian territorial sea. It is an area of the sea adjacent to territorial waters where the Italian coastal state has sovereign rights for the management of natural resources, jurisdiction in the matter of installation and use of artificial or fixed structures, scientific research and fishing. For a long time, Italy in the Mediterranean has had an extremely passive position, while other powers in the area have moved to pursue their interests, which - often and willingly - are opposed to our interests. Therefore, we welcome the potential scenarios that open up with the approval of this law, recalling the importance of the role that our country must play in the Mediterranean and that it belongs to it. Therefore, I declare the vote in favour of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u88	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u90	PAVANELLI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thanks to this measure, which was requested by the Movimento 5 Stars, we give Italy sovereignty over its own sea. With it, in fact, also our Country will finally have its own exclusive economic zone that - as my colleague Ferrara in his report has explained in detail - will allow the Government to manage and exploit exclusively the natural and mining resources present within 200 miles from our coasts. Thanks to the exclusive economic zone, Italy will be able to defend the activities of our fishermen to protect a fundamental sector of our economy, vital for our coastal communities. It will also be able to promote scientific research activities in defence of the marine environment and its fragile and valuable diversity. The geopolitical area of the Mediterranean is experiencing an epoch of profound change, it is returning to being object of contests and increasing claims from coastal states. In this changed context, Italy must have all the legal instruments to enforce its rights. The establishment of the exclusive economic zone represents in this sense a milestone that is now permanently laid thanks to the Movimento 5 Stars. For these reasons, our Group will be pleased and proud to vote in favour of the measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u91	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u92	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u94	THE MURA (Mixed). Mr President, my speech relates to a problem related to purification in the Municipality of Torre Annunziata, Municipality of the Metropolitan City of Naples located between Vesuvius and the Gulf. (17.23) (Follows LA MURA). It is a wonderful territory, but torn by environmental problems that have affected its livability and the natural ecosystem, especially the coast, an extraordinary coastline. The citizens of what was the ancient and wonderful Oplontis are now suffering yet another administrative choice from above, living in a state of deep agitation. I am referring to what is happening in the area of Via Gino Alfani, an area where, just 300 meters, four years ago collapsed a building, causing eight victims and where works are being carried out concerning a sewage collector that involves the construction of pipes along the roads and a tank that will also have to collect waste from the nearby town of Torre del Greco, for a total of 100,000 equivalent inhabitants. A real environmental disaster! This is for the collection of waste from the sewage treatment plant of the Sarno river. These interventions, entrusted to the company Gori, have a very high impact on the life and safety of the citizens, but they are also critical at the environmental level, as the mixed networks, composed of sewage and clear waters, will fill a tub foreseen by the project, which, if reached the maximum level, most likely - indeed, certainly - will dump everything at sea. There is no clarity on this and on many other points of the work, also because the design documentation is incomplete from a technical point of view. In fact, as far as the preliminary draft is concerned, there is a complete lack of documentation at regulatory level and also of documentation on the large Pompeii project. Mr President, I would need another minute to finish my speech. It is especially important to point out that the final project is incomplete and lacking in certification, with regard to risk analysis. I asked for a meeting with the mayor of Torre Annunziata, so that this project can be discussed again, in order to do project mitigation actions, with a declaration of no risk in the realization and management of the work. I really hope that the citizens of Torre Annunziata can be heard by the mayor in the name of the environment. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u97	AUDDINO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking here to bring to the attention of this House an unfortunate affair involving the Calabrian entrepreneur Tiberio Bentivoglio and his wife, recognized as victims of organised crime of a mafia nature. The two entrepreneurs from 1992 to 2014 have undergone repeated serious intimidating acts, due to the pressure of the 'ndrangheta, which unfortunately leaves no room for the free economic initiative. The spouses Bentivoglio are brave entrepreneurs, who have decided not to lower their heads in front of the extortive demands, always denouncing the intimidation suffered. This choice has, of course, had repercussions on their commercial activity, leading to a state of poverty. No one would say goodbye to them anymore or enter the shop for purchases, with the consequent collapse of sales, as they have said several times in recent years. The two entrepreneurs have asked the State for help, which has made itself felt: for five years their business is in fact located in a confiscated property, in the city of Reggio Calabria. However, in these days, entrepreneurs have received a letter of formal notice from the Municipality for the late rents: it is 3,000 euros per month for the last five years, for a total of about 150,000 euros. We must now try to find a solution to all this: we must solve this problem at this point. Renegotiating the rent, finding a solution for past debts and applying Resolution No. 17 of 2012 are fundamental actions to overcome the difficult situation that has arisen. In fact, this resolution clearly establishes the complete exemption from local taxes for those who have filed a complaint against the racket, but to date it appears to be unenforced. In my view, this situation requires serious consideration of the real protection of the victims of the racket and the mafia. I hope that the Municipality of Reggio Calabria will soon start a table to find a definitive solution to this problem and that it will do so in a clear and concrete way, applying for example the aforementioned resolution, which - I repeat - clearly establishes the exemption from taxes to entrepreneurs who have denounced the racket, sending out a clear signal for which denouncing it agrees. I should like to conclude by saying something to myself and my colleagues in this House: as legislators, we must do our part, for example by considering the amendment of Act No 109 of 1996, so that confiscated property can be granted free of charge, not only to cooperatives and non-profit associations, as has been the case for many years, but also to persons recognised as victims of organised crime. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u98	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u100	Mr Pinotti (PD). Mr President, I will make a brief speech on a request that I make to the presidency of the Senate. As you know, yesterday the Minister of Defense Guerini was in Afghanistan, where the flag ceremony took place. The mission, which lasted twenty years, saw Italy always engaged with very significant contingents and, at the beginning, also with command roles in Kabul and then in the area of Herat, when the provincial reconstruction teams (PRT) were born, with the command of that quadrant. Italy had, therefore, great responsibilities, a participation of twenty years, 53 soldiers died on Afghan soil. I think it might be useful and important for the Senate to devote a space, a moment for a shared reflection that can provide thanks for the work that our military have done, but also for our cooperation. I think it would be wrong not to have a parliamentary debate on such an important mission, on which we have debated several times in Parliament and which is now closing. Please bring this request to the Presidency and to the President. I hope that it can then be discussed in the group leader and find acceptance. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u101	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u103	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, I very much appreciate the sensitivity of Senator Pinotti, who called for the House to have a debate on what has happened and the closure of this mission. I do appreciate it because, even if it is very polite, it could also sound as slight criticism - perhaps it is not, but I do it - to the work of this Government, which before the flag did not consider to accept the request made by Brothers of Italy and addressed to ministers Di Maio and Guerini to come and report to the Chamber. Let there be, then, even posthumously, a debate that would have been, to the truth, absolutely necessary and necessary out of respect for those who have done their work for peace, even at the cost of their lives. The people who gave their lives are 53, but I say 54 and fought when they were also called in arms to defend the reasons for that mission of peace. President, during my time as Minister, I have often had to accept the bodies of our fallen and remember the torment of relatives, but also the compound pride of family members to know that the sacrifice of the very painful life of their relatives was for an important work that cannot be debased, for an attempt to give that people and that country a better condition of life, to guarantee - let us not forget - or to hope to guarantee greater security to our cities, our nations, the free and Western world. That experience ends today. There's been a flag that's a little sloppy. We have not even managed to agree with the Emirates, who have made the plane run empty with the people who had to participate in the flag; a small, large, huge signal of inappropriate behaviour of our institutional apparatus. But I believe that we can here, even if we are forced to do so in an intervention at the end of the session, pay homage and honor to those men, to those women, to that people with small stars that for me remains the best part of our homeland, that has been able to give life and commitment to respond to the need that the country entrusted to them. Thank you, thank you, thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u104	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u106	MARIN (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, on 31 March Rai 3 aired a program in which a psychic expert was invited to discuss the case of Benno Neumair, the 30-year-old Bozen-Bolzano guilty of the murder of his parents. The reason? Playing debts. In this respect, the expert explained that an extended social network, consisting of voluntary associations, self-help groups and social inclusion, needed to be strengthened. I mean, a little more than a tea room. A clinical, media, medical, responsible word? Nothing. At the moment, I thought the psych specialist was joking to make the case worse. Unfortunately, no. Three days ago another tragic double homicide: a 34-year-old man with serious drug problems murdered his mother and neighbor. Submitted to TSO, the murderer is now stationed by the Carabinieri in the local hospital. How do you get to this? What do you do to prevent? Nothing. Families that have to deal with crises are abandoned. In these two cases the family has invested everything, even its own sacred life. Legalised drugs and drugs, such as methadone, are administered and locked up in these cramped and well-hidden places, using the only possible instrument, the TSO, shameful alibi. Gentlemen, in order to offer to your family affected by severe dependence or mental illness a decent room with adequate spaces, you must turn to private facilities. That is why we insist on social inclusion, because there are no structures to welcome these serious and dangerous patients, for themselves and for others, before they commit the crime and before their lives are summed up in a judicial path. And here it is also explained why the diagnosis tends to be softened with terminologies to say the least ridiculous: mental discomfort. Uncomfortable are pimples, tight shoes, indigestion. The disease that affects a patient with self-harm, murder or suicide can not be described as discomfort. The Law No 180 of 1978 must be put into effect as soon as possible. You know, 43 years old... [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u107	Conclude, Senator Marin.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u108	MARIN (L-SP-PSd'Az). Yes, ma'am, thank you. The tragic events that have taken place require immediate action on the current law n. 180, which is dramatically inadequate. The TSO is not enough; specialized and human structures are needed to deal with the effects of drug dependence and mental illness. I would like to thank those who wish to reflect on the subject; others are invited to take a self-examination. [[Applause.]] (17.36 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u109	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u111	VANIN (M5S). Mr President, on Saturday 5 June, the great cruise ships have returned to Venice. Everything the same as before? Yes. Despite the suspension of the Covid, in fact the departures from San Marco of ships from cruise ever bigger and more intrusive. At 16.30, with an advance of an hour and a half, Costa Crociere, company of the American multinational Carnival Corporation, has started MSC Orchestra: approximately 95,000 tons of tonnage, 300 meters long, high 60, with 1,275 cabins to accommodate 2,550 passengers. It has started before in order not to show to the crocieristi in vacation the protests of the citizens and the many associations, not only national, present to the manifestation, organized from the Committee No great ships, to which many associations and thousands of citizens have participated. Trained by tugboats, the ship crossed the San Marco basin among the small boats of the citizens who protested civilly. I always wonder what the passengers think, who are now well aware of the damage that the wave motorbike creates to the foundations of the city, and everyone now knows perfectly well that, at the advance of the subway ship, they destroy the seabed and pollute the most beautiful and fragile city that the whole world envies us. Yet, for a few minutes, for a shot to post on social media, they are all on the bridge, greeting with the hand a city that does not really want them, because those who love Venice and its lagoon know what are the causes of the destruction of so much beauty. Viewed from the bridge, the city is an off-scale miniature, like its inhabitants, a toy, and its destruction - of which we are all aware - is included in the price of each cabin, in every tourist package. I have unnecessarily asked this Government to apply the decree Clini-Passera to put the limit of 40,000 tons, to plan departures, now concentrated only on the weekend, not to start unscathed excavations in the lagoon to bring these floating condominiums to Marghera with thousands of people in full risk area (according to the Seveso legislation) between chemical plants and fuel depots. If the contest of ideas will find the solution for the traffic outside lagoon - solution that must however be gradual, reversible and compatible - it is urgent however to stop immediately these enormous and unsustainable ships for the city. The citizens who have read in the local press, amazed, the words of the director of the society that gathers the companies from cruise to declare that the restart of the great crocieristica is demanded from Zaia and Brugnaro will not forget it. The Venetians have suffered the Mose; they are now undergoing the return of the great ships; they are exasperated and can no longer. The world is watching us stunned and the images broadcast by the press and international TV testify to this. Unfortunately, on the local level... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u112	Thank you, but it was already well beyond the time allowed. I still think his thinking was very clear.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u113	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-06-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-334.ana.u114	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Thursday 10 June, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.44 p.m.
