ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.33 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Montevecchi, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting on 20 May. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u4	The Conference of Leaders approved the timetable until 8 June. This afternoon's session, which will end at 8 p.m., provides for the discussion of the draft law on the posting of the Municipalities of Montecopiolo and Sassofeltrio from the Marche Region, the follow-up to the examination of the reports of the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities concerning Article 68 of the Constitution and the ratifications of international agreements defined by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The agenda for tomorrow's sitting is to discuss motions for resolutions on vitality. The texts will have to be submitted by 6 p.m. today. Five minutes under discussion and ten minutes for explanations of vote were allocated for each group, in addition to the five minutes allocated for the illustration of the acts. At 4 p.m. tomorrow it will be called for the secret ballot vote by means of ballots for the election of two Secretary Senators. The ballot boxes will remain open until 7 p.m. After the call, we shall continue to examine any arguments which may not be concluded today. Thursday 27 will be discussed - where concluded by the Commission - the bill on quorums concerning the validity of municipal elections. The deadline for tabling amendments to the House was set at 2 p.m. tomorrow. At 3 p.m. on Thursday, the question time will take place with the presence of ministers of ecological transition and labour and social policies. The week from 31 May to 4 June will be reserved for the work of the Commissions. The Assembly will meet again on Tuesday 8 June at 4.30 p.m. with statements by the President on the agenda. To this end, the Conference of Leaders shall be convened on the same day at 11.30 a.m. The group leaders also agreed that amendments for the Assembly to the draft law on the constitutional protection of the environment should be tabled by 6 p.m. on Thursday 3 June.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u5	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting today, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, approved - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the schedule of proceedings until 8 June: [[Tuesday, May 25, h. 16,30-20 - Draft law n. 1144 and related - Detachment of the municipalities of Montecopiolo and Sassofeltrio from the Marche Region (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Documents defined by the Junta of the elections and parliamentary immunity in the matter of Article 68 of the Constitution - Ratifications of international agreements defined by the Committee on Foreign Affairs - Motions on the vitalities - Voting for the election of two senators Secretary (secret ballot by ballot by ballot) (Wednesday 26, at 16)* - Drawing of law n. 1196 and connected - Quorum concerning the validity of municipal elections (where concluded by the Commission) (Thursday 27) - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151-bis of the Rules of Procedure (Thursday 27, at 15) Wednesday 26 " h. 9,30 Thursday 27 " h. 9,30]] * The ballot boxes will remain open until 7 p.m. Amendments to the related bill No 1196 (Quorum concerning the validity of municipal elections) will have to be tabled by 2 p.m. on Wednesday 26 May. The week from 31 May to 4 June will be reserved for the work of the Commissions. [[Tuesday 8 June h. 16.30 - Statement by the President on the timetable of proceedings]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u6	[[The President and the Assembly stand.]] Senators, as sadly known, last Sunday the quiet Alpine valley at the foot of Lake Maggiore was shaken by the deaf bang caused by the collapse of a cable car that leads from Stresa to the top of Mount Mottarone. A tragic accident that caused the death of 14 people: families, couples, young people and even two children, Mattia of five years and Tom of only two years. The five-year-old Eitan, the only survivor in serious condition at the Regina Margherita Children's Hospital in Turin, was probably saved from the heroic embrace of his father, who shielded himself with his own body, but will have no more hugs to give to his dad, his mom, his little brother, who on that cable car lost their lives. The investigations arranged by the judiciary will allow to reconstruct the dynamics of the accident and ascertain any responsibilities, but now is the time of mourning and pain, because this mourning strikes in the underwear an entire national community that in one of the first days of reopening was rediscovering the return to normality through contact with nature and beauty. The terrible images of the sheets of the cabin thrown into the woods bent by the violence of the impact will remain an indelible memory in each of us, because each of us has become involved in the broken hope of those Italians who had entrusted their expectations and their desire to live after months of great limitations, uncertainty and fear on the Mottarone trip. Today we want to join the family and friends of these 14 compatriots and tell them that they are not alone, that their pain is our pain, because it is in the great trials, as in the great joys, that a national community must demonstrate what it means to share the same identity, living in an authentic spirit of communion also the sufferings that tear the heart. With this spirit I would like to thank the staff of the firemen, the Alpine Rescue, the Carabinieri and all those who, even in this circumstance, among great difficulties, have given us the example of a brave and generous Italy. In a moving memory of the 14 innocent victims of the tragedy of Mottarone, I therefore invite the Senate Chamber to observe a minute's silence. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u9	LANIECE (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is also close to the families of the victims of this terrible tragedy. For those who, like us, come from places similar to those where this tragedy has matured, the mountain, the pain is twofold. It is because we know well the context in which it has matured, that of a Sunday of celebration, of carefreeness, to pass along with their loved ones, which suddenly turns into an appointment with death, with photos in the newspapers and with the stories of the victims. (16.47) (LANIECE followed). It is because in our memory the pain of the tragedies of Cermis, Champoluc or Montebianco is still alive; events that have marked our history and that have prompted the legislator and the world of cableway installations to pay more and more attention to safety. For this reason, now that the mountain sees the light after a very hard season, it is important that it does not pass an alarm message: the controls are and remain ironic and have been so even in the weeks of the closures, but the revisions cost and the local authorities will be called to intervene to support the small management companies. However, it is right and proper to raise the level of controls and inspections, because, as we know, safety is never too much. In the same way, it will be necessary to ascertain to the full the responsibilities of what has happened. Those who did wrong must pay, because it is unthinkable that in 2021, with the technology we have available, with the rules that are there, we can still die in this way. We also owe it to the mountains and to the many who work daily with the utmost professionalism and rigour to ensure the safety of people. We owe it above all to the victims and their loved ones and we owe it to little Eitan, to whom we ideally send from this House the tenderest caress and the most moved embrace of which we are capable. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u12	MAGORNO (IV-PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the senators, ladies and gentlemen of the government, it is for me today one of the most difficult and saddest moments in which to speak and represent the dismay and anger at the serious accident that occurred last Sunday at the cable car Stresa-Mottarone, in what was to be a day of joy and carefreeness, but which in fact turned into a tragedy that shocked and left everyone stunned. Fourteen broken lives, whole families and young couples, each with its own special and extraordinary history, made up of hopes and broken dreams that were crumpled and destroyed, like the cabin where they traveled on a Sunday of pain for the whole nation and in particular for me, for my city, for my country. Among the victims are Serena Cosentino, citizen of Diamante, and her boyfriend Hesam, of Iranian origin, a boy close to the degree in engineering, who humbly worked, supported himself in studies and who we consider part of our community for love so beautiful and deep that he tied him to Serena. For Serena and Hesam the future was a book to write, full of projects, expectations and love for the future. The pages of this book were brutally and absurdly torn Sunday, leaving an unbreakable void in all those who loved these two boys. Serena was what a model girl, particularly brilliant in her studies, is said to be. He had obtained a degree in natural sciences and a specialization in monitoring and redevelopment at La Sapienza University in Rome with the highest marks; for two months he had won a scholarship at the National Research Council (CNR) and had moved to Verbania to carry out the work of his dreams after years of study and sacrifice away from home. The story of Serena is destined to become another excellence of our land of which to be proud; it is the story of other young people forced to leave their land, to go elsewhere to realize their dreams, to build their future; a story that questions our consciences of men of institutions, administrators and citizens. I have no difficulty in admitting it: this is a defeat for all of us, the renewal of an injustice, of a wound that we cannot heal. Of course, now is the moment of pain, but as men of the institutions we have the duty, with lucidity, to make our own the authoritative words of President Mattarella, which I allow him to quote: the feelings of closeness and solidarity expressed in these hours, is accompanied by the call to strict respect for every safety standard, for all the conditions that concern the transport of persons. I say it without rhetoric, forcefully. Let us be clear about the responsibility for what has happened and the causes that have led to the death of 14 people, including 2 children. All institutional actors involved cooperate with each other and make available the documents, papers and what is needed. As senator and mayor, I will fight for truth and justice. I feel I owe it to Serena, Hesam, all the victims on Sunday and their families to respond to their pain, despair and to the torment of a mother and father, Ada and Maurizio. This pain - believe me - breaks the heart and you can never erase it from the mind. Italy cried and weeped too much mourning and tragedies that could be avoided. It is an atavistic criticality of our whole country - from North to South - and it is therefore necessary and urgent a cultural revolution that leads us to invest more in security and always put it in the first place. It is time to change the page and to do so you need a common effort, without uncertainty and further delays. Let's remember Serena, Hesam, Silvia, Alessandro, Amit, Tal, Tom, Barbara, Itshak, Vittorio, Elisabetta, Mattia, Angelo and Roberto: their sweet and sunny smiles turned off too soon. Let's do it by thinking of little Eitan, who survived the tragedy because protected by the embrace of his father, a last and wonderful gesture of love, a light of hope in this moment of deep pain. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u15	NASTERS (FdI). Mr President, it is difficult to take the floor in this House today to remember what happened on Sunday. This is a terrible tragedy that leaves us appalled. Who, like me, knows that territory well, has even more difficulty finding the right words: incredible, impossible, indescribable. It's like you're facing a mocking joke of fate. After months and months of forced closures and days spent relegated to the house to invent games and hobbies for their children, finally here comes the first beautiful days of spring, like Sunday just spent. What better opportunity, with a perfect sun and climate, to enjoy one of the most beautiful and suggestive views of our Piedmont, the Mottarone? A summit that stands between the majestic Lake Maggiore, crowned also by the Prealps, and the picturesque Lake Orta: the ideal scenery to slowly return to normality together and next to one's loved ones. They probably thought so Roberta and Angelo, two guys who had chosen to spend this special day on a trip right in the Blue Province. Sunday was her birthday, doctor employed at the ASL in Piacenza. We are going up by cable car: this is the short text of Roberta's last message to her sister. Linked to them, in a strange and even incomprehensible destiny, an Israeli family living today in Pavia: father, mother, grandfather and grandmother with his beloved six-year-old grandson. All dead, except him, little Eitan, the only survivor, brought in very serious conditions to the hospital in Turin. For having survived the terrible impact, it is likely that the father, who was a strong build, wrapped his son with a hug. This is the reconstruction, still to be validated, but the most accredited and credible, spread by the hospital that is struggling for the salvation of this small life. A life, his, which is also keeping Italy hanging by a thread, a small but tenacious hope. However, this mocking and dramatic story, alongside the heartbreaking count of the dead also has its saved. Yeah, because Dario, teacher of Verbania and the six-year-old son, almost the same age of Eitan, should have been hung by that thread, or rather by that cable. They were also in line to take a seat in the cabin and reach the summit. But that same fate wanted that, because of the restrictions due to the Covid-19, only 15 people could get into the cabin and they would be in excess. A fatality that for them, however, has made the difference between life and death. Miracles, as Dario said, from Covid, that same Covid that, due to the lockdowns and the various restrictions, has caused a long interruption of the functionality of the lift system compared to the constant and regular usual use. While standing still for a long time in the restart, the surfaces can be little lubricated, as happens in the engine of the cars that remain for a long time unused; this is what Gianpaolo Rosati, professor of Politecnico di Milano, says. In my personal visit to the Mottarone, President, and Stresa on the site of the disaster, on Sunday afternoon, I have been given many hypotheses that are all under the scrutiny of the judiciary, which clearly has the last word on responsibility. However, of the rough and shady hours spent in those places I will keep in the memory some looks: the gaze of our provincial administrators Luigi and Damiano who live daily the territory and who also wander to the thought of the repercussions on the economy with a strong tourist vocation of those lands of lakes and mountains. The gaze and eyes full of tears of the mayor of Stresa who feels upon himself the weight of the responsibility to raise souls and hearts of his community and finally the gaze of Thomas, our young city councilman of Stresa, member of the local civil protection team, who was among the first rescuers to reach the place of disaster and to see with his eyes the bodies inside that cabin and those jumped out of the same during the impact. Those eyes, those eyes, those tears, combined also with the tireless work of all the rescuers to whom the gratitude and pride of this House goes, are the truest and most sincere legacy of a terrible disaster after which, after having established the responsibilities, we have a duty to leave again. In conclusion, Mr President, now is the time for mourning and painful silence, but it must be clear that responsibilities must be established and also quickly. A fact of clarity on the dynamics of the accident we owe it to the victims, so that their sacrifice imposes adequate safety standards so that in the future there are still no mourning events like this. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u18	D'ARIENZO (PD). Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, I express my heartfelt condolences and human closeness to all the families involved, friends and those who knew those who did not make it. I also thank all those who helped in that difficult moment and who, once again, have demonstrated the high professionalism of our country. It is obvious that at this stage we must avoid emotion and anger. We have a duty to assess the facts critically and then to decide. From this point of view, our support for all those who are working in this direction - the judiciary in the first place - is full and unconditional. It is also good that the Ministry of Sustainable Infrastructure and Mobility has appointed a committee of inquiry. Everything goes in the direction of ascertaining facts and truth. We are in the presence of two concomitant and incredible events, such as the rupture of the tractor rope and the malfunction of the brake, however, in the face of a load that certainly was not the maximum of the established flow rate. However, these events must be assessed in the light of the provisions of Ministerial Decree No 203 of 2015, which concerns the revisions and infrastructure of this type of plant. The affected area, Lake Maggiore in Upper Piedmont, is a place of great added value for our country and contributes significantly to the good name and image of Italy in the world. We cannot leave this territory alone: past this sad moment, we must ask ourselves in support of this territory, already hard hit, like many other Italian localities, and that also through this infrastructure tried to start again. In Italy, in many beautiful locations, there are about 1,500 cableway installations, for about 11,000 people. Many of these facilities are mountain infrastructure, therefore in delicate ecosystems that structures such as these also help to protect. It is therefore a national issue to deal with safety and ensure the full and safe operation of these facilities, as well as the economic survival of the surrounding territory. In this regard, even with an amendment of the Democratic Party, at the first signature of Senator Laus - Piedmontese, moreover - in the decree-law supports we have recently allocated about 430 million in favor of the operators activities of cableway lifts. In any case, it is a national theme, which concerns a delicate territory; it is about the image and good name of our country. The State must ensure security and legal certainty; it must be done quickly and well. It is our task to reassure on the use of all cableway systems in our country, also frequented by both summer tourism and winter tourism. There are many plants that have the same structural characteristics and we cannot ignore anything; on the contrary, this is yet another opportunity to review ordinary and extraordinary interventions. Renewing the sincere condolences to the families affected by this grave mourning, our final thought goes in favour of little Eitan, the child who was protected by his father, as has been said, so that he can make it and I can live peacefully his future. But in order for him to live it, he needs to be assured by the State through the guarantee of justice. As well as justice must be guaranteed for all those families that have been severely affected by this tragic event. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u21	RUOTOLO (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, members of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, it is with emotion that I take the floor on behalf of LEU-Ecosolidali and the Mixed Group to express my condolences to the families of the victims of Stresa and their communities. In the small and the great tragedies - and this is a great tragedy of Stresa - we return to be united: it is a tragedy that involves the whole country, our country, Italy. Fourteen victims, families destroyed, eight Italians, five Israelis and one Iranian, and between them two children: a sad list. We are all hoping that Eitan will recover soon, fighting for life, the only survivor of his family. A trip to the lake, the cable car with the view from the top of Lake Maggiore, the summit almost reached, a strong whistling and then crashed, with a flight of twenty meters, just as we were returning to live. A trip, the Sunday trip, which becomes a tragedy. I read that the route from Piazzale Lido station by the lake in front of Isola Bella reaches the peak of Mottarone in twenty minutes. Twenty minutes to reach 1,491 meters high. I read that the broken cable was checked in 2020. There was no fatality. Colleagues and colleagues, it is right and proper to express our condolences, but we must ask this House to clarify what has happened. We owe it to the victims' family and we owe it to all of us. The Minister for Sustainable Infrastructure and Mobility, Giovannini, announced the establishment of a commission of the Ministry, which will accompany the investigation of the judiciary. Well, whatever it takes to ascertain the truth is done. The investigation by the judiciary will tell us why the cable broke and why the brakes did not work, because, if the brakes had worked, the cabin would have stopped, instead it slipped downstream, without the emergency system coming into operation: old and still system for a long time. The cabin would arrive at the top, then a whisper and reverse at 100 kilometers per hour: a chilling dynamic. It will take time and it will be a complex activity: rightly, he puts his hands forward the attorney of Verbania, Olympia Bossi. It will take time, but the experts reassure us, because they tell us that we will know exactly what happened. A mechanical failure? A malfunction? Wearing materials? Human error? We have all wondered, in the immediacy, whether the safety standards have been complied with. The last magnetoscopic control of the rope would have been carried out in November 2020, the results of which would not have revealed any criticalities. In today's newspapers the reporters tell us hypotheses and possible responsibilities. We stop here, because we wait to know from the judiciary the answers to the many questions that we ask ourselves in these hours. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, before concluding, I would like to reflect with you on the issue of safety in the transport of people: trains, but also roads and cable cars. We all remember the Ponte Morandi of Genoa: sometimes it was a human error, but almost always faults and malfunctions due to lack of controls and maintenance and technological backwardness. Just recently, at last, the parliamentary committee of inquiry on working conditions in Italy, on exploitation and safety in public and private workplaces, chaired by Senator Bressa, was set up in the Senate. There are laws in this area, but the missing ones are labour inspectors and ASL inspectors. There are fewer and fewer inspections at the workplace: prevention needs to be done. There are rules that save lives and that cannot and must not be disregarded. Even this tragedy, like that of the Ponte Morandi of Genoa, tells us that security is a priority, which cannot be questioned by any other reason. We need to be consistent and there is nothing that we need to take a step back and, on the contrary, we need to make progress on security and controls. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you cannot and must not die to work or to spend some time... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u22	Thank you, Senator Rotolo. It seems to me that the last words you said were "on a Sunday in May." I'm sorry they didn't hear from you.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u25	GALLONE (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, my group naturally joins in mourning for this terrible moment, one of those moments that we would never want to see in this House. Italy, in fact, does not end up suffering. Last Sunday was a day of terrible pain, of those pains that block the breath and make the heart stop, because, while you look, you feel like mother, father, son, wife and sister, you try to imagine what people may have felt in those moments and you try to imagine, remotely, what remains in who remains, compared to an unacceptable event. I can't think of any other words than unacceptable. Therefore, Italy and the Senate bow their heads for the tragedy of the victims after the fall of the cable car Stresa-Mottarone. Now we have a duty, but first I want to remember this. I was struck by a statement from the grandparents of little Eitan, who are now in reserve, next to the child, who will obviously have a marked life. These Israeli grandparents, who after the vaccine had decided to come to Italy from Israel to hug their loved ones, said: we did not think that anything like this could happen in Italy. It's crazy that, by getting away from a war, something like this can happen. Wars, however, can nest anywhere. War is any negative event. So today Piedmont, Calabria, Puglia, Israel and Iran become one. We are all united in the same pain and torment, because every victim is a life. As I said before, we empathically close our eyes and think that, suddenly, this life is no longer there, with all dreams and all hopes. Before I heard Mr Nastri remember the fact that Eitan probably survived because he was hugged by his father. In short, Italy is a country that has experienced so many of these tragedies. This is a tragedy of transport; then earthquakes, floods, the Covid-19: we are tried, we are tired. We're not at war, but we're a country that fights every day. I say only one thing: today we have only one duty; we always repeat it, but I hope that, because I have repetitled iuvant, we can finally find a solution. Our duty is to do and ensure that tragedies such as this no longer occur, standing alongside families. The government today has a double obligation: to stand beside those who have remained, but to make sure that what happened does not happen again. My colleague was talking about transport safety. We are about to dismiss a measure, the PNRR link: EUR 30.6 billion, many of which should be earmarked for control functions on bridges, viaducts, roads and all means of transport. What we are asking is to use these resources well to save lives in advance. So let's get to work. It's the only thing we can do to make a minimum of justice with respect to what happened, because crying after it's sickening, too painful and angering. Let us channel all our efforts, so that these things do not happen again. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u28	MONTANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, as some of you may already know, I come from the province of Verbania, which is why on Sunday I have practically experienced the tragedy of Mottarone, with the first rescue helicopters that at lunchtime began to fly over the roof of my house towards what, shortly afterwards, thanks to the tam tam of the media, I discovered to be the site of the accident, one of the most terrible of our recent history and certainly one of the most terrible with regard to my territory of origin, Verbano-Cusio-Ossola. Even today, 72 hours apart, there are no proper words. There aren't any today and there can never be to explain an event that no one here would like to comment on. Both the day before yesterday and yesterday was the time of prayers for the victims, but still today it is a day of pain, which torments the heart of all Italians. For this reason, on my behalf and on behalf of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group, I wish to express a sincere closeness and my deepest condolences to the families affected. Who, like me, is a father could not help but be deeply shocked by the death that has touched, as sadly known, also young people and children: a tragedy in the tragedy, which will hardly be able to forget. To move forward today is not fair for the respect that we must bring to the victims and their families, but - let me tell you - it hurts to see that in 2021 we can still die in this way. In fact, what happened on Sunday at the Stresa-Mottarone cable car is not the result of a calamitous event, it is not the consequence - as it was for the Cermis cable car - of the mistake of a pilot of an American military aircraft that pulled the cable. It's not fatal, but it has to do with human ingenuity. It is not up to me to explain anything about what happened, I certainly do not have the skills, nor the authority to do so, but it is also evident to us laymen that Sunday's tragedy is closely related to something that went wrong in reference to a work studied, designed and built by men and women in the flesh, as we are. A terrible accident, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to which - I want to say this without rhetoric, but also without any possibility of misunderstandings - I hope that the Prosecutor and Minister of Sustainable Infrastructure and Mobility Giovannini - who, as we know, announced the establishment of a Commission of ministerial inquiry that will accompany the work of the judiciary - can quickly ascertain the causes and possible responsibilities and punish, if there are any, the culprits. No judicial will, which does not belong to me by nature (who knows me well), but only a deep respect, which we must all bring to the innocent victims of Mottarone, to their families destroyed and to the five-year-old child, the only survivor, who is struggling for life at the Regina Margherita hospital in Turin. To him and to the whole community we must explain what happened in my land. You see, Mr President, I like to call my province and my territory a paradise on earth. All of Italy is beautiful, but my province (it will be because I live there and my children and my affections live there) is more beautiful than others. This paradise on earth since Sunday has fourteen angels asking to know what happened and, if there are responsibilities, that someone responds to it, not as unfortunately happened in other situations in our country. I would like to conclude by thanking all those who spoke on Sunday on the Mottarone, Carabinieri and the fire department, but I would like to mention two people in particular: the mayor of Stresa, Marcella Severino, and the chief prosecutor of the Republic of Verbania, Olimpia Bossi, two courageous women in the front line. I was struck by their twisted faces on Sunday evening, witnessing a tragedy that struck deep down and that we hope will never happen again. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u31	PIRRO (M5S). Mr President, speaking today in this House is very difficult. We commemorate fourteen victims of a terrible tragedy, a shocking affair that has left us disappointed and speechless. But words must be found, because we must ensure that such dramas do not occur. In these days, we have read the stories of these people, from the smallest, Tom Biran, two years old, to the oldest, his great-grandfather, Itshak Cohen, eighty-two. Those who celebrated their birthday, who met to get back together again, who simply to take a trip; we recognized ourselves in the carefree normality of a day on the lake. Today we feel an infinite pain for the lives cut off and the families destroyed and to them goes my most heartfelt embrace of proximity along with that of the whole Movimento 5 Star Group. Together with the fourteen victims, we remember the only survivor, the five-year-old Eitan Moshe, who was in serious condition at Regina Margherita Hospital in Turin. Daddy saved him, who in the last moments before the impact held him tightly to himself. Today, health care workers have begun a slow and gradual awakening and will have to explain to them that they have lost their parents, little brother and grandparents. We'll have to explain to him all of us what happened on that tragic day. [[Applause]] We'll have to explain to him why the steel rope broke, because the cab brakes didn't work. We have faith in the judiciary. The investigators will certainly shed light on the matter and trace the responsibilities. Let the truth emerge quickly. We owe it, first of all, to the victims; we owe it to Eitan; we owe it to everyone, because it is not possible to get on a cable car on a festive day and never return home again. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u32	The next item is the debate on draft law Nos. 1144, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, 720 and 959. The report has been printed and distributed. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Grassi, if he intends to supplement it.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u33	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the written report is more than exhaustive. I would just like to say that the measure is well known and almost expensive to all of us, since it has been one of the objects of this parliamentary term since the beginning of our parliamentary activity. However, there is a time when we must all depart from what is dear to us: let me then tell the House that it is time to let go of this measure and allow it to detach itself from us. I would therefore urge you to vote on this measure, so that we can have a referendum, which is now - I think - fourteen years ago, and I repeat a principle which I had the opportunity to set out last time. A referendum, for the sole reason that it has accumulated years since it was held, cannot become obsolete, because, if this principle were passed, we would allow those who lost the referendum to win it. [[Applause]] Now is therefore the time to give voice and follow-up to the popular will. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u34	I would like to inform you that the question of suspensive QS1 has been raised. He asked Senator De Bertoldi to intervene to illustrate it. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after Mr Grassi's words - which I welcome - I would like to draw common sense to this House. I really don't think any of us want to speculate politically about two countries that overall barely reach 2,500 people, so 0.00004 percent of the national population. I believe that in this case each of us must identify ourselves, however, in each of those 2,500 people who guard the territory, our hills, our mountains and our periphery; each of us, therefore, beyond ideologies, political conveniences and territorial logics, must think first of all what these 2,500 citizens of the Marches really want. Consistently with what we said when the Marches were directed by the Democratic Party, today that they are directed by our President Aquaroli, Brothers of Italy maintains the same line and asks to respect and understand the true popular will. So, dear colleagues of the League, of Forza Italia, of Italia Viva, of Per le Autonomie, of the Democratic Party and of LEU, do you think that we would really carry out our task with coherence and respect for our morale and our dignity as institutions, giving value to a referendum of fourteen years ago? I repeat that it is fourteen years old. That is, we should wait three months, because in three months' time, ladies and gentlemen, there will be municipal elections in these countries, and so those 2,500 citizens of Sassofeltrio and Montecopiolo will say which side they want to be on. I appeal to each of you, to the MPs of the Marches and of the whole country: do you want to give credit to a referendum of fourteen years old, where all conditions were different, or do you want to wait three months, because in September the municipal councils of these two countries will be renewed? This calls for Brothers of Italy: to respect the will of a community, which is already admirable in itself, because it presides over a territory. We ask to understand that, although, as I said, they are an infinitesimal percentage of the Italian population, the sense of responsibility must prevail over each of the inhabitants of these municipalities. So Brothers of Italy, beyond party logic, asks you to vote according to conscience. We give them three months of time; they will vote for the local elections and in three months' time, not us, will decide whether two municipalities that have always been in the Marches can stay there or should instead go to Emilia Romagna. I repeat that the protagonists in this case must not be us, nor our parties or our country's conveniences (because they are not even regional, but country's). We must ensure that the citizens - I do not tire of repeating this - are the protagonists. They must live in the suburbs, in the hills of the Marches, because Marches have always been, and they must decide, only them. Let us remember that in September they will be able to do so with the local elections. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u36	Pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, a debate will take place on the suspensive question in which one representative per Group will be able to speak for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u39	CROATTI (M5S). Mr President, I would ask you to proceed with this measure, because these people have been waiting for an answer for fourteen years. It's a matter of fairness for everyone. When a person enters an electoral seat and expresses a vote, he expects politicians to take that path. We cannot continue to contradict the will of the citizens. The instruments of participation are there, just as there are those to give voice to the citizens; when a measure enters the institutions, there is always a way of not making it go on. [[Applause]] I would therefore ask the House to proceed with this process, because the citizens of whom my colleague spoke have actually expressed their vote for many years and the administrators of these municipalities have difficulty in proceeding. Keeping these people's will in limbo is wrong, because we're doing it in here. The people outside are voting; when they get up in the morning, they go to an electoral seat and put an "x" on a ballot box, we must respect that right, which they have and which must be pursued by politics. We must end the change of direction that we continue to make on so many measures. We've seen him all the time. We've seen him for years. It even happens for the formation of governments: those who choose to send a political party to the government are then found with the formation of completely different governments. The same thing has also happened with regard to public water: for years the will of the citizens has been decreed that on water could no longer be profited, but everything is still. Not to mention funding for parties. [[Applause]] The citizens have called for no more funding for political parties, but we continue to do so, because people's will continues to be changed. I therefore ask that this measure be continued and that we listen to what people have chosen at the polls, respecting that vote and leaving the mayors free to work on their municipalities. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u40	Pursuant to Rule 93 (6) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the suspensive question QS1, tabled by Senator De Bertoldi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Pazzaglini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so. [[Brusio]] Colleagues, I would ask you to allow Senator Pazzaglini to speak. Anyone who is not interested in listening can therefore leave the Chamber.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u41	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, it is difficult to speak after recalling the tragedy of Stresa, which struck everyone, and after recalling the fourteen victims and the tragedy of little Eitan, probably survived by a heroic gesture of his father: we all hope that he will recover soon, both because such a heroic gesture must not remain in vain, and because in this way he will be able to remember the love of his parents, who went beyond death and allowed him to remain alive. Despite all this, however, our work must continue and today we are discussing the Act of the Senate 1144, which provides for the conclusion of the iter with which the two municipalities of Sassofeltrio and Montecopiolo should pass from the Marche Region to the Emilia-Romagna Region. As I said, this act is the conclusion of a process initiated fourteen years ago: it is a clearly very long period which, in my opinion, should make everyone reflect. Anticipating that as politician and senator I am opposed to this choice, which clearly represents the failure of politics: if those communities have arrived at the drastic decision to abandon their own Region to move on to another, with all the unknowns and uncertainties that this entails, it is because obviously the local politics has failed to give the answers that the citizens were looking for. I am therefore opposed to what is determined by this pronunciation. I am opposed, however, also because, for the first time since its establishment, the Marche Region is led by the centre-right and therefore I would have liked, as a senator and parliamentary representative of the centre-right, to give the opportunity to the new regional administration, the new Junta and the new Regional Council, to try to give the answers that have clearly determined the choice of those populations. I understand that choice, because the Marches are the only Italian Region that is declined to the plural, with many Regions inside: in the South are part Abruzzo, a wonderful Region that, like us, has beautiful mountains and a very attractive sea; to the West there is Umbria, the green Umbria, the green heart of Italy. My city was Umbrian. When the Municipality of Gualdo was sold to Umbria as compensation, the ancient Municipality of Visso, constituted by the current Visso Ussita and Castelsantangelo sul Nera, passed from Umbria to Marche. We were under the diocese of Norcia until a few decades ago; our main river, the Black, is one of the first and most important tributaries of the Tiber and to date we are still in the water basin of the Tiber. I understand therefore the temptation to move to another Region that is seen more like itself for history, culture, tradition, dialect and for many reasons that could make us more similar to others. I understand therefore the friends of the North of the Marche, that in part they feel Romagna - and probably they are - and therefore their will to move to a Region, Emilia-Romagna, that they could see closer, more similar and more homogeneous to themselves for cultural traditions and for typicality. All this, however, leads me to express myself, not as a Marchesian and not as a senator, but as a legist. The League has always been in favour of the self-determination of the territories, therefore, despite my personal opposition and my conviction that it would be far preferable that this step did not take place, I can only respect the popular will of those two communities and remember that, although with a not very high participation, 85 percent on average of those two municipalities expressed themselves in favour of this passage. As I said yesterday to a former mayor of Montecopiolo, Mauro Baldacci, who opposed it correctly and politely, but firm to this passage, claiming that the numbers of the referendum were not such as to make it assume that this will still remains, I am convinced that those who are absent are always wrong. Those who did not vote first cannot and must not assume that they would have expressed a will to the contrary, but, not participating in the vote, in essence delegated their decision to others. The others have spoken almost with a plebiscite, because 85% of the votes in favour of this passage cannot make us doubt absolutely the will of those populations, will that I personally know, because I had the opportunity to speak with some of the inhabitants of these cities. I remember, for example, one of our militants who explained that, in order to go to make the vaccine for the Covid, depending on the point that would have been identified, he would have to travel 70 or 72 kilometers, when, instead, if he had had the opportunity to evaluate as an alternative that established by the Province of Rimini, of kilometers he would have to travel about ten and 60 kilometers of difference in the mountains represent the difference between life and death. I therefore understand that, despite all the objections that have just been raised in this House and the fact that the people's will has not been expressed recently, however, we want to continue with this path. I remember, in conclusion, that my Region, for which I have expressed words of love so far, has been identified by the Lonely Planet as the second most beautiful in the world and it is evident that with the loss of these two municipalities we will be a little less beautiful. Despite this, I can only make a huge good luck to these my fellow countrymen, with the hope that this choice then one day should not regret it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u42	We are talking about two municipalities of 2,500 inhabitants as a whole.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u43	He's enlisted to speak Senator Pagano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u44	Mr President, this measure is not, honestly, a good example of good Italian administration, both at regional and parliamentary level. Unfortunately, what we are finally going to vote for today - and I hope, to approve - is one of the worst expressions of slowness, bureaucracy and above all of the obstructive attitude for which some institutions of the country, when things do not go the way they want, do not comply with what is laid down by law. It is true that fourteen years have passed since that referendum, but let us say why this has happened, ladies and gentlemen. Fourteen years have passed because Italy and its territorial branches have given a bad example of administration; I was going to say good administration, but in reality they have given an excellent example of bad administration. Our Constitution provides for a fundamental aspect for Italian territories and citizens. [[Brusio. Call the president back.]] I was explaining that our Constitution provides for the possibility for citizens to decide some fundamental aspects of their daily lives, as in this case. These are only two small municipalities on the border between the Marches and Emilia-Romagna, where they live citizens who wanted and felt the need, for a thousand cultural, historical reasons, also related to daily working life or even to the need to avail of health services, to be aggregated to the Emilia-Romagna Region. This is because those citizens, as the mayors of those municipalities said in the Commission, use for example the health facilities of Rimini and a series of services that are not of the Marche Region, but of the Emilia-Romagna region, and most citizens go to work in the province of Rimini. You understand well that opposing the will of some citizens who have democratically expressed themselves in a referendum only for reasons of narrow selfishness of territorial borders, which have nothing to do with history, culture and even the dialect of these peoples, is serious. We didn't set a good example. The Marche Region - I am sorry to have to say - had a obstructive attitude, because in fact it blocked the regular course and procedures of this measure, denying those citizens the right to express and ensure that that response, that expression could become an administrative act and a concrete legislative act. So this is not a good example. Italy should change, it should be something different; today we are putting a piece of equipment on a bad example that this Parliament has given, certainly not just because of it, even if I do not hide that we too have not set a good example. It took three years for this measure to arrive in this House. Some have just mentioned the fact that there has been a change in the political management of the Marche Region and has gone from the center-left to the center-right: today there is an expression president of the Brothers of Italy. I read in my notes that the current President, when he was still a Member, voted in favour of this measure at first reading; Mr Marche, today President of the Marche Region, voted in favour of this measure. The current President Aquaroli did well, because he met the will of free Italian citizens who wanted to be aggregated to the Emilia-Romagna Region for reasons exclusively related to the quality of their lives. Know also that this story is even more serious in view of the fact that there had been a precedent in which seven neighboring municipalities (that is, seven small mountain towns bordering these two municipalities) had already been aggregated to the Emilia-Romagna Region with similar measure, but with a much greater procedural and legislative expedition. To whom children, to whom stepchildren have given themselves space and ease of aggregation to those seven municipalities and not to these other two. Let us then try to do the legislators well and follow up on the democratically expressed will of those citizens, as our Constitution provides and allows for it. For this reason, albeit guiltfully and lately, I say that we can only vote in favour of that democratically expressed will by the citizens of Sassofeltrio and Montecopiolo. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u45	Senator Campari is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u46	Mr President, as Senator Pagano rightly said, seven municipalities have already passed from the Marches to Emilia-Romagna and this is normal because they are all part of Valmarecchia. It is a group of municipalities that historically belong to Romagna and, therefore, this is the natural consequence of things. We'll talk about it later. The bill under consideration has been in the Senate for three years and in the last legislature he has been in the Chamber of Deputies, where he has been bogged down. In this legislature he arrived in the Senate and today, after three years, we may have finally reached a vote. In 2019 I was rapporteur for the measure in the Parliamentary Committee on Regional Affairs and it was already clear at that time how the facts were taking place: the popular will had been sanctioned by the referendum of 24 and 25 June 2007, published in the Official Journal in July, which had seen absolutely unequivocal results. Let's talk with the data: in Montecopiolo the yes obtained 83.2 percent, while in Sassofeltrio 87.28. The turnout to the vote, adding the right holders of the two municipalities, was 54.1 percent. Therefore, the popular will cannot be called into question, nor has it been. The problem was the Regions, or - better - a Region. The Emilia-Romagna Region, requested, immediately said yes to the detachment of the municipalities from the Marches (it did so already in 2012), while the Marches never expressed the opinion. This was a major problem that paralyzed the work. The opinion was requested by the Presidency of the Constitutional Affairs Committee of the Chamber of Deputies not once, but twice (in July and October 2015), but the Marche Region still listened as a merchant. In the Commission were held hearings of experts from which it became clear that it could proceed despite the absolutely obstructive attitude of the Marche Region. I have read the opinions expressed in the Commission on 1 March 2016 by Claudia Tubertini, associate professor of administrative law at the University of Bologna, and by the lawyer Bianca Barbieri of the UnaValmarecchia Committee, who said that no doubt we could proceed despite the strongly obstructive attitude of the Marche Region. They went further and wrote that, from what I was happening on the proposed law in question, it was legitimate to infer that the Marche Region, contrary to territorial variation, was determined not to rule, thus decreed the blockage of the entire iter. And they added that it surprised therefore that the principle of loyal collaboration, expressly recalled by the Marche Region and placed on the basis of one of the reasons of the recourse to the Consulta, came from the same completely disregarded with regard to the proposals of law under consideration. It is therefore evident that Regione Marche played a game certainly not crystalline. The Constitutional Court itself, in 2009, said to move on and so on. In order to have further proof of their will, the Municipalities of Sassofeltrio and Montecopiolo were still questioned, also by myself and in fact replied - for knowledge: protocol 888 of 22 February - to me and also to other parliamentarians with a joint declaration that wanted to complete the posting. Then there was also a further letter from Sassofeltrio that practically demolishes the fantomatic collection of signatures that we speak of, that in reality had been made "to the good", to the bar, and above all in ways absolutely without legislative foundation, so much so that the violation of the legislation concerning the protection of personal data are listed; the presence of signatures of illiterate persons or non-resident persons, who therefore carried false statements - it is written black on white - and above all of signatories not registered on the electoral lists. It is therefore considered that the collection, which was defined by someone as a petition signed by a large number of entitled persons, in the reality of the facts could not be used in support of the thesis of permanence in the Marches. Therefore, in the careful analysis of all these data, the Commission expressed itself unanimously in favour of the detachment of the municipalities from the Marche Region and the entry into the Emilia-Romagna Region. So, I wonder if anyone obviously has a bit of a mix-up in their heads if they once vote one way or the other. Even today we have had this demonstration. The Marches, then, saw themselves in the grip and, once they had the opinion to move forward, proving still their will obstructionistic, gave negative opinion; an opinion that, however, cannot be considered fundamental to move forward because the law is state, so it is only consultative. In conclusion, the Marches, who were at the time driving PD and have now changed it, have certainly not made a good impression on this matter. In my view, at some point party and party interests must make room for people's interests and allow people's will to be fulfilled. We return Sassofeltrio and Montecopiolo to the Emilia-Romagna Region and especially to Romagna, to a part of the beautiful Region to which their cultural, historical and linguistic identity belongs, which must still be confirmed by this Assembly. Sassofeltrio and Montecopiolo must enter Romagna. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u47	He's enlisted to speak Senator Romagnoli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this bill No 1144 provides for the detachment of the municipalities of Montecopiolo and Sassofeltrio - as we have heard so far - from the Marche Region and their aggregation with the Emilia-Romagna region in the Province of Rimini. The request for detachment was submitted to a referendum, organized by decree of the President of the Republic, on 24 and 25 June 2007, 14 years ago. Both municipalities voted in favour of detachment, albeit with minimal results taking into account the electoral corps, as one of my colleagues said just now. In particular, they have achieved the result of about 57 and 92 percent for Montecopiolo and about 50 and 67 percent for Sassofeltrio, which translate into about 83 and 87 percent if we report them to the participants in the referendum vote. However, while the Emilia-Romagna Region has always expressed a favourable opinion on the proposal for such aggregation, the Marche Region has expressed itself negatively. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs, aware of the fact that the referendum had been held many years earlier, has ensured that this examination was particularly detailed and paying attention to the many interests at stake, through meetings and hearings. In particular, I would like to point out that, on the basis of the information acquired during the examination in the consultative session during the iter to the Chamber, the mayors of the Municipalities had expressed their views, considering that the motivation to complete the 2007 referendum was still persistent. Consequently, when examining the draft law in the Senate, the Budget Committee gave a non-obstacle opinion and the Parliamentary Committee on Regional Affairs gave a favourable opinion, after the House had already given a favourable opinion to the Finance, Production and Social Affairs Committees. On the other hand, we cannot forget or ignore petitions. 326 and 351, respectively, of the citizens of the municipalities of Sassofeltrio and Montecopiolo, which go in the opposite direction. In fact, it is required that the draft laws for the detachment of the two municipalities from the Marche Region are not approved. I understand very well from Marche that there is a complicated situation and full of inconsistencies mainly due to the fact that fourteen years have passed since the referendum, and that this has resulted in a natural demographic and cultural evolution of the territory and probably a overcoming of the referendary position (we do not know). In this regard, our colleague, the Undersecretary Accoto, has deposited the bill n. 1816 on the discipline of the referendum provided for in Article 132 of the Constitution for the detachment of Municipalities and Provinces from a Region and consequent aggregation to other Region. With this regulatory intervention time limits are introduced so that the popular will expressed with the referendum tool can find regulatory implementation within a reasonable time. I would add that, in order not to repeat ambiguities as in the present case, it is good to urge that we always consider a new referendary consultation that reflects the real will, but in relation to an acceptable time interval. In fact, the main instrument of participatory democracy to express the popular will, what is the referendum, is very often ignored in any way. For example, on the one hand we are still waiting - as my colleague Mr Croatti said - for the implementation of the referendum on public water in June 2011, while on the other - as in this case - we are faced with a response which for fourteen years has not been followed by any government that has followed and by all the other political formations that, perhaps, with a policy more attentive to all citizens and all the internal territories of any region, would never have found themselves discussing these things. [[Applause. Bursium]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u49	I pray those who do not want to listen to lower the tone of their voices.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u50	Continue, Senator Romagnoli. ROMAGNOLI (M5S). We have always argued that the implementation of the referendum will must always be taken into account in the highest possible terms. Above all, what I would like to say is that the implementation of the referendum will need to be assessed without any political conditioning. [[Applause]] I understand that this is a divisive choice, but it is appropriate to say that it is enough for a policy that does not act before and now exploits. [[Applause]] Mr President, I conclude by saying that the Marche Region is just as beautiful as the Emilia Region or any other Region of Italy. We are in a wonderful nation in many respects, of whatever region it is. So the problem is not that the Emilia Region is beautiful and not the Marches. The problem is that politics must be adequate for the territories and must respect the dignity and livability of all citizens. [[Applause]] A good policy for the internal territories will never again make it necessary to decide the detachment of a territory. As a Marcher, I regret this choice, but as an Italian citizen I say that we must respect what was the will of the people, and we will respect it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u51	The general debate is closed. The rapporteur and the representative of the Government do not intend to intervene in the reply. I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 2, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u52	Mr President, I am against Amendments 2,100 (correct text) and 2,11.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u53	Mr President, I call for the withdrawal of amendment 2,100 (correct text), otherwise the opinion is against it. On Amendment 2,101, the Government returns to the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u54	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,100 (correct text), tabled by Senator Verducci. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.101, tabled by Senator Verducci. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2102 has been withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 3, on which an amendment has been tabled which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u55	Mr President, I am against Amendment 3,100.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u56	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u57	Let us move on to Amendment 3,100, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,100, tabled by Senator Verducci. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u60	Grimani (IV-PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators and Members of the Government, with this measure we follow a choice that the people of Montecopiolo and Sassofeltrio took by referendum in 2007. Whenever decisions are to be taken concerning local communities, populations and territories, we must do so with the utmost responsibility, with the utmost involvement and with the utmost respect, taking into account that decisions such as these will have repercussions on the daily lives of many citizens and many citizens. It is also true, however, that we must do this in the light of the legal obligations and constitutional requirements. It is clear that in this sense we are going to approve a law that follows a decision of the populations of Sassofeltrio and Montecopiolo to proceed to the detachment from the original Marche territory and to ask for the aggregation to Emilia-Romagna. We know that this has been a complex measure, because it has had several parliamentary passages, rather far from today's date. The Constitutional Affairs Committee fired him for the first time in July 2019, after the House had approved him in March of the same year. The Senate Chamber sent him back to the Commission on 8 October 2019 and the Constitutional Affairs Commission concluded a new iter on 24 June 2020. From the point of view of the procedures, there have been many moments of comparison, including through the holding of a large number of hearings held in the Commission, at both the first and second approval stages in June 2020. The key issue behind our decisions is the 2007 referendum, because many of the assessments that have been made focus on whether it is still current and still has reliability, since it took place in 2007. Well, in the course of the hearings, differing opinions were expressed on this subject. Not all those involved, and not only administrators, but also university and constitutionalist professors have expressed unanimous opinion. It is quite clear, however, that the communities that held the referendum in 2007 have never again expressed, within the municipal councils, the will to carry out a new referendum. So much so that, when it was sent to those Municipalities the agenda Calderoli, who invited the Municipal Councils to express a new pronunciation to confirm the referendum decisions of 2007, they expressed, in the case of Sassofeltrio, opposition to the fact that they did not proceed to the aggregation with Emilia-Romagna; while Montecopiolo, which had changed political connotation, had expressed, with a resolution of the majority of the City Council, the will to go ahead and to return to Parliament to conclude the iter started in 2007. We must, therefore, follow up today's choice that originated in the 2007 referendum and the central question is whether that referendum decision is still of current value or whether there are reasons to say the opposite; and this is also because a new request for a referendum should come from the municipal councils - this has not happened - and it could also be made provided that the legislative process in progress has finally ended, which has not yet happened. This is also a reflection from the Central Bureau for the referendum and there are acts to this end. Therefore, we can only confirm the vote in favour of the approval of the draft law under consideration, which falls within the procedure laid down in Article 132 of the Constitution, which provides that the wills of the people, expressed by referendum, heard by the Regional Councils, must have, in order to be able to proceed to a detachment from one Region and to the aggregation to another, the stamp of Parliament, which by means of a formal law, an ordinary law, must follow the determinations assumed by the people through a referendum. We express a positive opinion on the measure at our examination and we announce the willingness to vote in favour in order to conclude the process. It was a journey that also involved the other branch of Parliament and I would like to express my thanks to the Italian Viva Group of the Chamber of Deputies, particularly to my colleague Mr Romagna, Marco Di Maio, who has worked hard to achieve this result and to ensure that the popular wills expressed in 2007, now too far away, were fulfilled and that Parliament followed those referendum choices with the approval of this bill that finally comes to completion. I therefore reiterate the support of the Italia Viva Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u63	Mr Verducci (PD). Mr President, the measure we are dealing with does not only concern the citizens and communities of Montecopiolo and Sassofeltrio, nor only the people, the life and the future of Montefeltro, which is one of the most evocative and rich in history in Italy. Both municipalities, in the unfolding of the centuries, took part from protagonists to the events that they had as fulcrum Urbino "city-territory" symbol and driving force of the cultural and historical process that takes the name of Renaissance. There is an indissoluble historical link between Montecopiolo, Sassofeltrio, Montefeltro and the cultural and community identity of the Marche Region, a link represented by a cultural, architectural, living and vital landscape heritage, which is one with the multiple and plural characteristics of a Region, such as the Marche. The decision, ladies and gentlemen, that this Senate will take today goes far beyond the question of detachment from one region to join another, as bears the title of the law, because that detachment is not aseptic, nor bureaucratic, but contains an enormous amount of implications. Our task is not to ratify, but to assess the validity of the procedure on the basis of Article 132 of our Constitution. We are convinced - our conviction is reinforced by the opinions of the constitutionalists who audited during the cognitive investigation, which followed our request for referral back to the Commission months ago - that the procedure is valid when the various phases that make up it and, that is, the referendum, the opinions of the regional councils concerned - that of the Marche Region is negative and must be taken into account because it represents the voice of all the neighboring communities - and the examination in Parliament takes place in a short time so that the measure, which refers to autonomous phases, is, however, unique and consequential. In our case, this is no longer the case because the referendums, which were passed with a very small gap and, in one case, for only nine votes, took place in June 2007, fourteen years ago, in another era, at another time. Fourteen years is a huge time that, in fact, affects the validity of that vote. In 14 years, in fact, not only has the composition of the electoral body changed by almost 40%, but above all the conditions of fact have changed profoundly, the social and economic context, which had determined the beginning of the procedure for the detachment of the Municipalities of Montecopiolo and Sassofeltrio from the Marche Region. Today not only is there no more a push from the bottom to the detachment, but in recent years civic committees have arisen to stop the iter and in the spring of 2019 in just a few days a spontaneous petition has collected more than a thousand signatures, in fact half of those entitled to vote in the two municipalities. President. - The next item is the report (Doc. Over the years the Marche Region, in fact, has given, despite many difficulties, answers to serious problems, which are not only of Montefeltro, but of all the internal areas - which I know well because I come from there - and which concern work, health, school, essential services, social infrastructure around which to build a project to stem crisis and depopulation. We need a national strategy to support and relaunch the internal areas, the Apennine villages, and we should talk about this in order to put this planning at the centre of our government's agenda. Montecopiolo and Sassofeltrio between 2015 and 2016 have become part of special economic zones of the Marche Region and of areas of regional economic crisis with specific employment support that we must take into account because they concern the lives of hundreds of people and their families. They have become part of an extraordinary plan of valorization with measures related to tourism, environmental protection, education and detachment today would not help those municipalities, but on the contrary would put them in difficulty because they would lose the requirements reached in these years of interlocation with the Marche Region. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as proof of this, I quote the heartfelt letter that arrived yesterday to the presidency of the Senate and to all the senators of the mayor of Montecopiolo. In that letter the mayor of Montecopiolo writes: "Prioritary for the survival of this municipality and the territory is the protection of our companies. These activities will not have to suffer any kind of penalty, particularly economic. Funds and funds already earmarked for the protection of loans and investments under construction will have to be guaranteed. The concern of the mayor of Montecopiolo is our concern, because the posting would have negative repercussions also for the neighboring municipalities, for the entire area of Montefeltro, for the regional school network, for the socio-sanitary network, for the management of water resources, for the agricultural and zootechnical supply chain, which is very important in this territory, which would lose the specific measures provided for by the rural development plan of the Marche Region. Mr President, you know that the proclamation against a population in a referendum on the detachment of municipalities is only valid for five years. We also know that, when there is a positive pronunciation (as in this case), the law does not indicate a term, but it is against every logic and against every common sense to think that the referendum outcome is valid for infinity. The passage of time in fact affects its effectiveness and therefore there is an implicit deadline that reasonably many constitutionalists make coincide with five years, because this is the duration of a legislature and a council in a municipality or a region and it is the duration of the negative outcome of a referendum. That is why we asked that, having spent well over five years since 2007 and having profoundly changed the social conditions, referendums should be repeated, in order to ensure the topicality and authenticity of the will expressed by the people. That is why we have tabled our amendment so that the posting may proceed or be stopped on the basis of what the citizens would have chosen. This is the only way to respect the people and to prevent the error of the past too long from adding to the error of an act of Parliament that happens when the reasons for the posting appear exhausted, with the risk of an out of logic dismemberment of an already fragile territory, which is likely to run into further difficulties. It is a great responsibility and I appeal to all my colleagues, particularly those who care about the most marginal territories. Our vote will be a precedent and we cannot go wrong. The detachment as it is, without a new referendum and without a table between the territories concerned to have a vision of the whole, is a mistake and we would be wrong if we made the notaries of a vote fourteen years ago. It is our task, however, under the Constitution, to make the general interest and to assess whether that vote has any meaning today or not; and this can only be said by citizens, with a new referendum. But there is already an answer, President, and it is in the words that the Mayor of Montecopiolo sent us in this letter, which I quote: After two years of constant commitment, overcoming enormous difficulties, we managed to obtain recognition of the funding of numerous projects, which you find listed one by one. These projects, this funding must be guaranteed to us. That is why, Mr President, since our amendments have been rejected, we shall vote against this draft law, because it is certainly our job to respect a vote that has taken place, but, having passed such a huge time, it is even more and absolutely our task and our duty to respect and verify the feeling and will that has matured in the meantime in the people of Montefeltro. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u66	BARBONI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I too - like many of my previous colleagues - start by quoting the date of the referendum: it was 24 and 25 June 2007. It has been fourteen years, but it has been fourteen years because politics has had total inaction against the citizens of those two municipalities. The subject is governed - as many have pointed out - by Article 132 (2) of the Constitution, which is the main legislative source, but also by Law No 352 of 1970, which sets all the technical times following the outcome of the referendum. In other words, since the announcement of the result (July 10, 2007) the Minister of the Interior has sixty days to present to Parliament a constitutional or ordinary bill governing the matter, because Parliament is sovereign on the subject and not - as my previous colleague said - just a letterhead. Parliament considers, weighted, that it knows the places - this is the fundamental thing - and then decides in full autonomy. Well, at the end of the sixty days the then Minister of the Interior did not present any draft law, but five days before the deadline the Minister for Regional Affairs sent the request for opinion to the two Regions, non-binding consultative opinion, so, whether the answer was favourable or not, it would have been absolutely irrelevant to the final result of the bill. At this point, allow me a digression. The seven municipalities of Alta Valmarecchia have been mentioned before the Municipality of Montecopiolo, which is the eighth Municipality of Alta Valmarecchia, after which there is a natural wall formed by Mount Carpegna. In the aftermath of the December 2006 referendum, as President of the 1st Commission of the City Council of Rimini, I was the first to try to put for the first time the mayors of the seven municipalities of Alta Valmarecchia around a table to discuss that measure, together with the elected parliamentarians in Rimini and the Vice President of the Province of Pesaro, who was part of the yes committee. I assure you that it was a very complex thing, especially within the Democratic Party, because there had been mayors who had been on the yes committee and mayors who had been on the no committee and were at that time managing the citizens' response. It was concluded thanks to the Berlusconi Government - it should be remembered that in the Official Journal of 14 August 2009 the law that detached the seven municipalities of Alta Valmarecchia in the province of Rimini was published - the Marche Region, which had given contrary opinion, appealed to the Constitutional Court on the grounds that that opinion contrary, although the law provided that it was non-binding, could still be precluded from the measure. The appeal was rejected and from that date the opinion of the Emilia-Romagna Region arrived in 2012, while the Marche have never given the opinion. It is quite clear that in the 17th legislature the opinion, which was repeatedly requested and never given, had only one purpose: the completion of the process of the draft would have been used for lack of the opinion itself. This, however, is not a way of dealing with citizens. The letter of the mayor of Montecopiolo, quoted several times before, also contains another truth, because in the last passage recalled by the colleague it is said that, after the decision of the City Council in which the mayor and the City Council itself once and for all asked for a ruling from the Parliament, the funds arrived after two years from that decision (2019), which means that in the previous years nothing has ever arrived to the Municipality Montecopiolo, which has remained ensnared under Mount Carpegna, closed, on the one hand by Mount Carpegna and, on the other, by the municipalities already transited in the province of Rimini. In Italy of the bell towers it would therefore be appropriate for politics to question the reasons for these passages. Historical reasons have been mentioned, it is true, but these are border lands and the borders, which have been defined over the years, have placed the municipalities once in one area and sometimes in the other. Just go back, for example, to the song XXVII of Hell, in which Dante places Montecopiolo in Romagna. Other than that, just go to the services. 90 percent of the children of Sassofeltrio and Montecopiolo attend schools in the Province of Rimini. In Sassofeltrio, in the thirty years from 1975 to 2005, 77.75 percent of the children were born in hospitals in the Province of Rimini: with the obstetrics of Cattolica at 20 kilometers, they did not take 60 to go to Pesaro. Sometimes I have heard of the hospital in Sassocorvaro. Well, having a forensic clinic in Sassocorvaro, that territory I know quite well and I can say that the hospital in Sassocorvaro in 2013 was downgraded to community hospital and today has two floors: one, private, open, while the public one is still undergoing renovation, does not even have a withdrawal center, already planned before the Covid era. The vaccine hubs have been mentioned, and precisely with the Covid we had the plastic representation of the difficulties of these populations. If at 15 kilometers from Sassofeltrio there is Morciano, who has a vaccine hub at the pavilion of the fair in Morciano, you have to travel 60 kilometers to go to Pesaro or 50 kilometers of internal road to go to Urbino? In Montecopiolo you go down to San Leo, you can also see the fortress of Cagliostro, you get to Novafeltria and there you can safely vaccinate. Otherwise, it's all the other way, 70 kilometers to go to Pesaro. I no longer want to mention the petition, which was born in an enclave in Sassofeltrio, but I merely mention one element. As I said, I do an activity in Sassocorvaro, people know each other and things are known, so I would like to point out to you, Mr Undersecretary, a problem that is at the origin of that petition, important and serious for some people who do a certain type of activity. In that hamlet, which is not a fraction of Sassofeltrio, but is an enclave, because it has separate stations, you have behind Mount San Paolo, which divides from Montegrimano Terme. Well, citizens have a problem: as soon as they pass through the Province of Rimini, they should pay two territorial hunting areas to continue hunting. That is one of the reasons that pushed the collection of signatures. 18.33 p.m. (Follow Barbones). Finally, I would like to make a few more points. I think there is a point that comes from this: Parliament must have a certain time to give answers to citizens in similar cases, which does not mean that it must say yes, but simply know the places and situations and then respond. Another concept that, in announcing the favorable vote of Forza Italia to this measure, I would like to recall is that in the electoral campaign as elected of the college of Rimini-Cesena, me and my leader in the list, Senator Bernini, we made a commitment to bring this iter to an end. We keep this commitment, but there are neither winners nor winners in this affair. Parliament simply sums up its role. I will not return the day after tomorrow to Rimini passing under the August arch with the scalp of the Marche Region, which perhaps seen the somatic habitus, I would also need, but only with the conviction that I have done my duty. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u67	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u69	Mr Agussori (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, today finally comes to an end - and I stress the "finally" - one of the most paradoxically long itineraries that this House has perhaps ever faced. Today, after fourteen years, we will finally know whether the will of the people will be respected. We are talking about that of the citizens of two small municipalities set in the mountains between the Provinces of Pesaro and Rimini, small because they number about 2,500 inhabitants, but not insignificant, because like many others they represent the backbone of the history and culture of this country of the 8,000 bell towers. [[Applause]] It is, in fact, since 2007 that the people of Montecopiolo and Sassofeltrio have voted a referendum to join, as already done by other municipalities of Valmarecchia, their natural home, which is Romagna. It is a democratic choice provided for in our Constitution, but it is not easy at all, because this outcome was only possible with the favourable expression of the absolute majority of voters. This very high deliberative quorum was made even more difficult to obtain given the significant presence of voters residing abroad who, although registered in the Register of Italians residing abroad (AIRE), had to be counted in the electoral plenum. This democratic choice was then opposed for years by those who are democratic only in name, but not in fact [[Applause]] , with a obstructive attitude implemented through the obvious lack of the expected opinion that the Marche Region was called to express. Given the desire to arrive at a swift definition of the issue, the Constitutional Affairs Commission in 2019 did well to verify that in the meantime the will of these two communities had not undergone changes. In the face of the petition lodged by a large part, albeit minority, of citizens, the way was followed, thanks to the agenda of Senator Calderoli, to consult both municipal councils: that of Sassofeltrio confirmed the choice of posting, while that of Montecopiolo, just renewed, has returned to the will of Parliament, while rejecting the proposal for a new referendum. This led to the examination in this House in October 2019, when the Conte-a Government had recently taken office. Of course the knots came to the comb and the difference of opinion within the new yellow-fuchsia majority caused the measure to go down, with the disappointment of the populations concerned, and sent it back to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, where, even with a new round of hearings, we re-examined practically the whole investigation of the case, but the conclusion of the examination has always been the same: there is no way to change or conclude the process differently, except by ending the examination by Parliament. It is not possible to declare the referendum to have expired as if it were a yogurt and it is not possible to repeat it. [[Applause.]] The Constitution, in fact, provides for the examination in three levels: in the first, the populations expressed themselves by absolute majority; in the second, the two Regions expressed the opinion, although the Marche Region has done so - as we have seen - with extreme and suspicious delay, while the Emilia-Romagna Region and the Romagna Region have activated promptly and widely spent to bring back home also these last two municipalities of Valmarecchia; the third concerns Parliament: the Chamber of Deputies has expressed itself in favour, lacks only the passage of the Senate. It is no longer the time to hide behind a finger or to do dilatory actions: either it is approved or rejected, but it is done today. [[Applause]] If any Group is against it, press the red button. That's all. It's simple. [[Applause]] I shall begin by concluding, Mr President, by trying to find a positive aspect in this affair which you have been holding for almost three years. There is a common awareness - and I do not believe that I can be denied by my colleagues in the other groups - that the process of implementing Article 132 of the Constitution must be reformed or at least subject to appropriate cutting. There are two areas where I think we can and must intervene: the first is the modification of the quorum calculation mechanism, which takes into account the changed conditions of participation in the vote compared to the past: the physiological decrease of the turnout in the vote and the AIRE electorate, which is in fact impossible to vote, but counted for the purposes of the quorum. On this subject, we are examining in the Commission a draft law of the League proposing a solution; there may be others, we may talk about it, we may discuss it, but we do not remain unarmed. The second area is to include legislation requiring regional councils of regions concerned with the posting and aggregation of time limits within which to express their orientation. On this, the first Commission has adopted an agenda, which must be followed up and not let it become a dead letter. Also on this subject there is already a bill of the League waiting to be calendarized. In conclusion, since there are no other possible ways and also in view of what is now briefly expressed, but above all with the determination to follow up the popular choice, I hope that the Senate will approve the draft law under consideration and I declare the Lega-Salvini Premier Group's vote in favour. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u70	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u72	CROATTI (M5S). Mr President, representatives of the Government present, fellow senators and senators, since the birth of Movimento 5 Stars, one of the battles we have fought with the greatest force has been to improve and protect the instruments of democracy. The citizen has always been put at the centre and the delegation to the politician is an objective problem, because often and willingly what is chosen by the citizens does not have a path within the institutions. Too many times in the past we have seen the clear choices made by citizens in the polls, referendums and popular initiative laws trample on. There are many examples, starting from the formation of governments, that were not the expression of the will of citizens, or even when the name has been changed to public funding to parties to allow them to continue to pocket a mountain of indecent money that did not want to be given anymore. [[Applause]] Or, still, not listening to the plebiscytic request not to bend a public good like that of water to the profit of economic logics. They are all events that have devalued the will of the people who went to the polls. Today, in this House, we are debating the issue of two small municipalities, which seems insignificant in the face of the reflections we are making at the moment, the problems of the pandemic and the health emergency and the restart of the country with the PNRR, considering all the difficulties behind it and the gigantic measures such as those on the 110% bonus and the blocking of redundancies. In fact, it is not so insignificant, because it is two municipalities that have lost confidence in the institutions. There is a subtle link between the principle of politics that must be pursued and the will of the people that must be made real. This affair carries in itself some very important aspects of principle that must not be underestimated and touches extremely delicate strings, starting with the relationship of trust that must be built - indeed, rebuilt - with the citizens. [[Applause]] When a person goes to the seat and expresses a will, we have a duty to carry it forward. Montecopiolo and Sassofeltrio are two small municipalities of the Marches that fourteen years ago, in June 2007, voted the passage to the Province of Rimini, in Emilia-Romagna, using the instrument of the referendum provided for in article 132, paragraph 2, of our Constitution. The majority were very large: 83 percent in one municipality and 87 in the other. The people who go to vote have the right to be represented. [[Applause]] We are talking about 1,075 inhabitants of Montecopiolo and 1,421 inhabitants of Sassofeltrio: 2,496 citizens have not received answers from this Parliament for many years. I must acknowledge the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the rapporteur, Mr Grassi, that he has paid close attention, working effectively, decisively and above all prudently, respecting the citizens. In recent years all the categories, mayors and regions involved in the events have been heard. We need now the determination to say enough to this affair that has really lasted for too many years. It is an indecent expectation that it has overshadowed contempt for the choices of citizens and above all for the instruments of participation provided for in our Constitution; it is also a contempt for the arrogance and ambiguity of some politicians who have put themselves in defence of the bell towers, without respecting the will expressed at the polls. To restore dignity to the vote of the citizens of these two small municipalities means to heal an unacceptable democratic wound, it means not to exploit the letter of the mayor of which everyone has spoken today in this House because he wrote it only to protect the citizens he respects. [[Applause]] It means today in this House that in our country we can have real confidence in the institutions and that sovereignty belongs to the people who exercise it in the forms and within the limits of the Constitution. That is why, apart from the political groups, we must strongly reiterate this issue and for this reason the Movimento 5 Stars vote in favour. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u73	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of bill 1144, as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause]] Consequently, the draft law no. 720 and 959.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u74	The next item is the debate on document IV, No 7, which contains: Request for authorization for the use of interceptions of environmental and telephone conversations of Senator Luigi Cesaro in the context of criminal proceedings pending also against him transmitted by the Tribunal of Naples Section of the Judge for preliminary investigations on July 15, 2020. The Assembly's report on parliamentary elections and immunities has already been printed and distributed. I would remind you that the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has decided, by majority, to propose to the Assembly to accept the request for authorisation of use for six interceptions, i.e. regarding the progressive interceptions 253, 297, 299 and 902 of 21 and 22 October 2016, captured on the users and on board the Luigi Vergara car, as well as the interceptions referred to in the progressive n. 186 of 1 December 2016, and the progressive n. 16,100 of 27 June 2017; to deny the request for use of the remaining interceptions carried out on board the Luigi Vergara car from 5 February 2017 onwards. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Cucca, if he wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u75	Mr President, I shall be very brief, as always, in these circumstances, simply as a summary of what happened in the Junta. In fact, on July 15, 2020 the judge for preliminary investigations at the court of Naples had asked the president of the Senate of the Republic for permission to use a series of interceptions of environmental and telephone conversations of Senator Luigi Cesaro in the context of a criminal proceeding pending precisely before the court of Naples. The president of the court of Naples had referred the request to the Junta. (Applause from the right) The Junta examined the issue at several meetings - on 6 October, 4 November and 2 December 2020 and also on 12 January, 4, 17 and 25 March 2021 - and, of course, after detailed discussion, reached the conclusions already envisaged and reported by the Presidency. It is only to be specified that, in fact, they were groups of interceptions and that the intercepted was such Luigi Vergara; a phone call was intercepted aboard the car of Francesco Di Spirito and there is an interception in which the intercepted was such Francesco Di Lorenzo. Once again we have followed the method that this Junta has been following for eight years, at least since I was a part of it; probably it was followed from before, because I do not think it has been innovated at all. As I was able to say at the last sitting of this House when we examined similar cases, in the course of telephone interceptions carried by an intercepted subject, which is obviously different from the Member with whom he talks - otherwise they would not be usable, because the interceptions charged by a senator must be authorized in advance by the Senate -, we have always applied the so-called indirect interception, granting authorization only for those interceptions that we know to be random. In identifying the random interception, of course we refer first of all to the first interception, with respect to which obviously those who listen cannot know who is the interlocutor of the intercepted subject and in this case that he is a parliamentarians. Moreover, always applying the method of randomness, when one, two or three interceptions were collected in extremely near times, so without having the certainty that there was the possibility of knowing the identity of the person who was talking with the intercepted subject, we have always granted authorization. On the other hand, we excluded the usability of those interceptions in which it is likely that those who listened could have known that the person who was talking was a Member of Parliament, and at that point they should have stopped the interceptions immediately or should have been declared unusable. For these reasons, since we had several intercepted subjects and during those interceptions was indirectly listened to Senator Caesaro, we took only those that were probably absolutely random, but with a criterion of likelihood that is very close to certainty. In fact, the first interception is certainly random; and if another phone call is from the next day, it is evident that there was no time to verify the identity of the subject that dialogues. While, of the full-bodied request made by the judge for preliminary investigations, we excluded all those for which the listener was surely aware of the identity of the dialogue or would have had the opportunity to know its identity. For these reasons, we have decided to grant authorization to use six interceptions, i.e. those of 21 and 22 October 2016, picked up on the users and on board the Luigi Vergara car, as well as the intercepts of 1 December 2016, on board the car of Francesco Di Spirito, and also that of 27 June 2017 - as you can see, there is always a considerable amount of time - on the users of Francesco Di Lorenzo. We therefore considered that we would deny authorization for all other interceptions.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u76	Since there are no members to speak in this debate, we shall proceed to the vote on the proposal of the Assembly for elections and parliamentary immunity.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u77	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u79	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, the Fratelli d'Italia Group will vote in favour of the rapporteur's proposal. We also voted in favour of Mr Giunta, because we believe that Senator Cucca's proposal is balanced and well-founded. In essence, it is a matter of authorising only six of the 21 conversations intercepted, because only on these there is proof that these are really random interceptions, occasioned by circumstances that investigators could not predict at the time they made them. For all the other 15, however, there is the reasonable certainty that, in reality, at the time they were carried out, the investigators were already perfectly able to know that they were listening to the conversations of a Member of Parliament, in violation of the Constitution. For these reasons, we will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u80	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u82	Mr Rossomando (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking on this particular case and in advance that the arguments of this explanation of vote apply, in relationem, also to the following case. As has been well explained, in both cases the Junta and now the Senate Assembly fully exercise the role assigned to them, i.e. to identify whether, how and when they are usable intercepts obtained indirectly. We have exercised exactly this role, evaluating the randomness of interception and excluding from use those communications in which the objective of the investigation was now clear. Therefore, our vote will be firmly in favour, taking another opportunity to reiterate a necessary, serious and mandatory assessment of what it is, is born and must remain nothing but a means of proof, nothing more and nothing less. I think that the exercise of this role, for Parliament, is important and involves important prerogatives, but it is also an exercise within the rules of the Code of Criminal Procedure and, of course, of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u83	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u85	WORDS (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, we believe, with great respect for Senator Cucca, who is well aware of my esteem, that the Junta as a whole has decided, with a correct report, to follow a course and practice that are actually customary in the work of the Junta and of the Assembly. Even in the face of a correct report, however, we believe that the pedissequa application of parliamentary practice does not help us to correctly interpret the prerogatives inherent in Article 68 of the Constitution. I will steal a few minutes, but it is important for the House and its fellow senators to put this issue at the centre of their attention, because it is as if we are faced with a situation where, as we say in medical terms, the operation has succeeded, but the patient has died. We must be aware that indirect interceptions are only a practice in Italy. There is absolutely no such institution and practice abroad. Members of Parliament cannot be intercepted without the permission of the House to which they belong: that is all. This is a limited case, but, indeed, the same case can be extended and applied, not to all cases, but to many cases. We must be aware that the constitutional dictation is being bypassed. We can't just ignore it. It is true that the Constitutional Court, in an evolution of its jurisprudence, introduced this mechanism, but it is also true that, in the last significant decision of the Court, in 2013, where it was to intervene in what has been called the "stato-mafia treaty" case, which saw Mr Napolitano involved, in the figure of President of the Republic, and Mr Mancino, in that case interceptable because no longer parliamentary, in that case the Court gave as an indication, not only the non usability of the interceptions as regards the President of the Republic of Naples, but also of the same interceptions, since intervening with Napolitano, of the former Mr Mancino. Moreover, in that decision, the Court ordered the destruction of all the records and therefore of all the interceptions. This was the correct application of Article 68 extended to the President of the Republic. Colleagues, we must also be aware that the President of the Republic does not have protection with prerogatives within the Constitution, while Members do. Therefore, in this case, who would object that it was the President of the Republic, must also be aware that the protection of the President of the Republic is inferred, it can be seen, is a consequence. In essence, we are authorising, here as in other situations, indirect interceptions, which should not have homes, which should not exist. When a Member is intercepted, the interception is not usable: point and that's it. In particular, Mr Cucca said well: it is customary to ensure that, if indirect interception is considered random, then it can be used. You authorize the first interception, the first request, and you deny the others. The case of my colleague Cesaro is a limited case, also because the random interceptions in this case are intercepted on as many as three different users. Colleagues, I think chance doesn't exist in this case. In particular, I also raise the question that we have received the request for the use of telephone calls to date from the first one that is presented, but we do not know when the interception began. To give an example, it could well be that the interception of a telephone user began in February, that continues despite listening to talks with a parliamentarians and that then, in the face of an interception that, for whatever reason, is considered interesting, the first one that is required to use will be the interception that is considered interesting. This happens knowing that the parliamentary process normally allows us to use the first interception, but all to the detriment of the constitutional dictation. I repeat: this is happening, so is the constitutional dictation, the thing happens only in Italy and there is little chance, when the interceptions are the so-called drooling intercepts. It is clear, in fact, that when the interceptions manage to intercept a Member on multiple telephone users, there is little chance. We will vote against today, because we believe it is right to raise the question of the interpretation that the Junta and the Senate Assembly will have to amend. I hope that there will be a change in the direction and interpretations that we have to give in such cases, because otherwise we would have to bypass the constitutional dictation. For these reasons, we believe that we do not share the practice and will vote against the Junta's report. [[Applause.]] (at 19.06)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u86	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u87	You have the right to do so. DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Madam President, I would simply like to announce that the Senators of LEU-Ecosolidali voted in favour of the report by the Junta, which was presented by the rapporteur, Mr Cucca, on requests for authorization to use interceptions in respect of Senator Luigi Cesaro.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u88	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u90	I would ask colleagues in front of your station to allow you to speak. EVANGELIST (M5S). Mr President, it is the case of Luigi Cesaro that we are examining: this is the request for authorisation to proceed with the use of telephone and environmental interceptions. In particular, the Junta, after careful work (I am not here to tell the facts that the rapporteur has well summarized), voted by majority to allow the judiciary to use the following pick-ups: four interceptions on board cars and regarding the users of a third, of October 2016, an interception of December 2016 and another of June 2017. It is always a matter of intercepting third users, compared to which, however, the conversation at a certain point takes place with a parliamentarians, precisely with Senator Caesaro. In this case the Movimento 5 Stars felt obliged to apply strictly the Constitutional Charter, the law and even the orientation of the jurisprudence and the Constitutional Court, in particular of the 2007 judgment, in order to allow the judiciary to use those captures that have the character of the occasionality, a fortuitous character, because only at that time the judicial authority, in particular the gip investigating the crime of vote of political-mafioso exchange against Senator Cesaro, did not know that he was intercepting a parliamentarians. [[Comments]] Therefore, the act of investigation was directed to third parties, it was therefore not an act of investigation in fraud laws and only later, at the time when it was obvious that the intercepted was also a parliamentary, the judiciary should have stopped. And here for this and other facts and interceptions of conversations with Senator Caesaro, even the Movimento 5 Stars did not agree to authorize the judiciary. That is why I support the rapporteur's proposal. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u91	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u92	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u93	CRUCIOLI (Mixed). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make it clear what we are being asked to vote on today. We are asked to vote to deny fifteen interceptions and instead allow the use of six interceptions in the judgment that sees Senator Cesaro at trial for serious crimes, such as the vote of political-mafia exchange. The Council did not even allow these two parties to vote separately, so that it could say yes to the authorization of six interceptions and no to the use of 15 other interceptions. Therefore, colleagues - and I am addressing my colleagues in the Movimento 5 Stars in particular - by voting in favour you will deny the use of 15 interceptions that would be valuable to determine whether or not certain crimes have been committed by Senator Caesaro. That is why the Alternative is going to vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u94	I would like to point out the vote on the proposal of the Assembly for elections and parliamentary immunity to accept the request for authorisation of use for six interceptions, i.e. for progg interceptions. 253, 297, 299 and 902 of 21 and 22 October 2016, collected on the users and on board the Luigi Vergara car, as well as on the intercepts prog. 186 of 1 December 2016 and prog. 16100 of 27 June 2017; to reject the request for use of the remaining interceptions carried out on the Luigi Vergara car from 5 February 2017 onwards. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u95	The next item is the debate on document IV, No 8, which contains: Request for authorization for the use of wiretapping of telephone conversations of Senator Roberto Marti, deputy at the time of the facts, in the context of a criminal proceeding pending also against him Transmitted by the Court of Lecce Section of the Judge for preliminary investigations on 29 September 2020. The Assembly's report on parliamentary elections and immunities has already been printed and distributed. I would remind you that the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has decided, by a majority, to propose to the Assembly to accept the request for authorization for interceptions referred to in the progressive no. Council Regulation (EEC) No 3809, 3821 and 3822 of 3 April 2015 as well as the progressive provisions of Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 of the European Parliament and of the Council and of Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 of the European Parliament and of the Council and of Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 June 1971 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons and their families moving within the Community and repealing Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 of the Council and Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 of the Council and Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the application of social security schemes to employed persons and their families moving within the Community 3823, 3824, 3825 and 3826 of 4 April 2015 and reject the same for all other conversations. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Durnwalder, if he wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u96	Mr President, on 29 September 2020, the gip at the Lecce court asked the Senate for permission to use Senator Roberto Marti's telephone conversations in a criminal proceeding pending against him, in which the senator is co-mandated for the crimes of attempted office abuse, false ideological aggravated and attempted flawed in relation to the allocation of housing of public housing to the family of Antonio Briganti, brother of Pasquale of the Briganti clan. At its meeting on 14 April 2021, as already mentioned, the Junta decided, by a majority, to propose to the Assembly to accept the request for authorisation for the collections referred to in the progressive no. 3,809, 3821 and 3822 of 3 April 2015, as well as for the SMS messages referred to in progressive no. 3823, 3824, 3825 and 3826 of 4 April 2015 and reject the same for the other conversations. At the point of motivation it should be noted that in the information of the Financial Guard of January 2014 is hypothesized a crime of association to criminals committed by Senator Marti together with Monosi and Pasqualini. According to the Finance Guard, the criminal association in question was aimed at granting housing for public housing to persons without the relevant requirements. This information expressly renders the judicial authority responsible for the qualification of MP invested by Marti on January 2014 and renders the same of a criminal partnership existing between the senator, the Monosi and the Pasqualini. The association to criminals presupposes a associative bond tending to be stable and, consequently, is framed by the doctrine in the context of permanent crimes. Therefore, even in the light of this relative stability of the criminal partnership, the constituent element of the associative crime, it was certainly predictable, like a criterion of plausibility and reasonableness, that the interceptions made on the users of Monosi and that of Pasqualini would allow at some point also to pick up the conversations of the third member of the association, that is Senator Marti. The collections in question therefore do not meet the requirement of chance, since the judicial authority accepts the risk of such event, which also occurred on time, namely the risk that, by intercepting the users of two members of the association, the conversations of the same with the third member, parliamentary in office, would also be captured. For what concerns instead the request for authorization inherent in the collections on the telephone users of the Greek Rosary said Andrea (of 3 and 4 April 2015), it must be noted that in the information of 2014 such subject has never been cited. As a result, the capture of Marti's conversations with the Greek were not predictable, since the judicial authority had no element to prefigure such an event. It is therefore considered that chance can be envisaged, expected to be the very short time frame in which the conversations themselves were intercepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u97	I declare the debate open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Vitali. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u98	Mr President, I do not want to undermine the climate that has arisen in the Junta on this matter, but I am interested in emphasising a few points and I hope that colleagues will pay a minimum of attention not to my person, but to certain elements and to certain situations that I shall be representing. There is Article 68 of the Constitution, which provides guarantees to Members for certain situations. You may or may not share this healing, but as long as it exists it must be applied, just as the constitutional legislator has established and as many judgments of the Court of Cassation have established. Here we talk about a process that was born in 2014 and that concerns the assignment of some houses. Senator Marti until 2013 was city council member at the house and therefore the Finance Guard included, in the context of the crime news, the participation of the become honorable Marti, because in 2013 he left the position of councilman at the house and assumed that of parliamentarians. Well, what does the Court of Cassation say? It tells us that in order to intercept a Member, authorization is necessary, that occasional interceptions can be used and that the Junta must verify whether some subjects targeted by the public accuses were but a sneaky tool to intercept the Member. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the prosecutor has known since 2014 that Marti is being investigated or investigated. Why didn't you put it in the investigating register, as prescribed in Article 335 of the Code of Criminal Procedure? He didn't do it in 2015 - I say it to the rapporteur - because 2015 are those messages whose acquisition is authorized by the Junta. Also in 2015 it is given confirmation of the possible participation in this criminal plan of Senator Marti, but the prosecutor continues not to enter it in the register of the suspects. He only does so in 2017, after for four years he investigated how best he could. Ladies and gentlemen, then, how can we argue that these are occasional interceptions, if the prosecutor knew that it was already possible to investigate since 2014? The Cassation has said that there is a disciplinary responsibility for the prosecutor who does not enter the suspect in the register of suspects, as prescribed by the law, because the registration in the register of suspects is not discretionary, but is mandatory and is in the interest of the suspect. [[Applause]] Why didn't you write Mr Marti when he was supposed to? It is obvious: in order not to give him the guarantees that the law provides for the suspect, such as the communication of the request for an extension of the investigation or the notice of seizure or acquisition. He did it in the end, when in all manners he tried to involve him. The prosecutor says that these are occasional phone calls, which have been dubbed at a later time. This - excuse me - is a huge nonsense. It is well known that the interception takes place in constant listening to the officer or the judicial police officer. [[Applause]] It is true that it is not immediately decoupled, but the judicial police officer is obliged to briefly transcribe its contents into the register which is brought to the attention of the prosecutor, who knew of the possible involvement. The same judge for preliminary investigations, which authorizes every fifteen days the extension of the interceptions, must have perceived elements that could be of reality. As the judges legitimately do, who, when it comes to reform of justice, claim the constitutional right to autonomy and independence, parliamentarians must also claim their constitutional rights. [[Applause]] Without fear, without shame, without awe of anyone, unless - and we shall discuss this tomorrow - this Parliament fully assumes its responsibilities and repeals Article 68 of the Constitution, as it repealed parliamentary immunity in 1993. At that point we will see what will happen: the events of the last few months and weeks, with the discovery of the famous "system," should also make the professional "forcaioli" reflect on the fact that it is necessary to be careful to cancel guarantees. I hope that there will be the will of the whole House to reject the report, to go back to Junta and to reject any acquisition, because it is illegitimate, in the face of the request made by the prosecutor. Otherwise, even if on a personal basis, I shall vote against the proposal of the Assembly for elections and parliamentary immunity. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u99	As the rapporteur does not intend to speak in his reply, we shall proceed to the vote on the proposal of the Assembly for elections and parliamentary immunity.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u100	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u102	CUCCA (IV-PSI). Mr President, I will be very brief. The vote of the Italian Group Viva-P.S.I. will be in favour of the rapporteur's proposal, in fact corresponding to the criteria that have always been followed in this area.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u103	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u105	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, we will also vote in favour of the rapporteur's proposal, which convinces us.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u106	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u108	EVANGELIST (M5S). Mr President, we are discussing the Marti case, with reference to a criminal proceeding pending before the judge for preliminary investigations at the Lecce Court. The accusations are different: electoral corruption, office abuse, false ideology, flawed. The facts date back to 2014, when Marti was a congressman. The case has caused a great stir: there have been several arrests. Marti's attempt to illegitimately assign a confiscated property to a boss' brother to the mob appears from the papers of the prosecutor, so the facts are quite serious. The interceptions always concern third-party users, with regard to whom Mr Marti himself has spoken. The rapporteur has certainly identified interceptions that, as always, as in the case already examined, comply with the requirements of law, the Constitutional Charter, as well as the jurisprudence, for which they can be used in the criminal process: I think, for example, of the requirement of occasionality. No fumus persecutionis compared to these interceptions that mostly consist of messages on a mobile phone. However, the rapporteur's proposal does not entirely convince us, because in the end it did not intend to include a couple of telephone conversations resulting from the acts between the interceptions for which authorisation could be granted to the judiciary. Therefore, the Movimento 5 Star Group announces its abstention vote in relation to this proposal by the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u109	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u111	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, we are only partly in agreement with the conclusions of the Junta, because we felt, with President Grasso, that the Junta's proposal was to be supplemented by the authorization to use at least two other interceptions which, in our opinion, are to be considered, as, among other things, it has been possible to indicate the same defence, which is certainly random and occasional. I am referring in particular to interceptions no. 5179 and 20006, 15 May 2014 and 1 July 2014 respectively. For all these reasons, we announce the abstention vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u112	I refer to the vote on the proposal of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities to accept the request for authorisation for the collections referred to in the progressive no. Council Regulation (EEC) No 3809, 3821 and 3822 of 3 April 2015 as well as the progressive provisions of Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 of the European Parliament and of the Council and of Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 of the European Parliament and of the Council and of Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 June 1971 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons and their families moving within the Community and repealing Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 of the Council and Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 of the Council and Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the application of social security schemes to employed persons and their families moving within the Community 3823, 3824, 3825 and 3826 of 4 April 2015 and reject the same for all other conversations. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u113	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u115	Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to ask my colleagues and group leaders for their attention to the order of business. Given that we have also planned a window tomorrow afternoon for the ratifications of the international treaties, I believe that given the time it is appropriate to postpone, unless otherwise, the discussion of ratifications until tomorrow afternoon and not interrupt it, given the usual necessity of the unity of the subject.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u116	Senator Calderoli, that was exactly what I was going to propose to the House. If we do not make any comments, we give this direction to be acquired.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u117	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u119	PELLEGRINI Marco (M5S). Mr President, today for Foggia, my city, is a very sad day, but at the same time of rebirth: Prefect Grassi has ordered the dissolution of the City Council and has entrusted the temporary management of the agency to the prefectia commissioner identified in the person of Dr. Marilisa Magno, to whom I welcome and to whom I wish good work with all my heart. After the arrest of the Legist mayor Landella, after his resignation twenty days ago, after the succession of arrests of other municipal councillors of the center-right majority, accused of corruption, concussion and sin, crimes in some cases already confessed, the epilogue of today was inevitable. The investigations are raising the veil on a terrifying administrative reality, in which the disinterest in the needs of the citizens of the city and the vulgar, vulgar and illicit attachment to dirty money, personal enrichment and the claim to condition the administrative activity for the sole purpose of obtaining bribes from economic operators. Telephone and environmental interceptions give us a puke of bad politics, in which the words "citizens", "future", "vision," "projects," "hope" and "work" are never there. On the other hand, you can hear the figures of the bribes to be shared, the laughter and the illicit agreements. The stylicide of arrests, scandals and investigations has cast into dismay an entire community that was already proved by the terrible challenge that the dangerous Foggia mafias had addressed to it. The citizens were already shaken, on the one hand, and raised, on the other hand, by the establishment on 9 March of the access committee appointed by the prefect, by delegation of the Minister of the Interior, pursuant to Article 143 of the single text of the local authorities, in order to verify any dangers of infiltration or conditioning by organized crime within the municipal administration. In conclusion, it is a very difficult time for my city, but the state in all its articulations has shown that it is able to react and to be able to combat effectively both the mafia and the evil of politics. [[Applause]] Now the administrative life, as I said just now, is in the hands of the Commissioner prefectia, Dr. Magno, who will find a complex reality, but to whom I wish again the welcome and I say that he will have the support of me and of all the Movimento 5 Stars in his burdensome work. Good job, Doctor. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u120	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u122	AUDDINO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, two days ago was the sad umpteenth anniversary (the 29th) of the Capaci massacre and I feel obliged to remind you here as a senator. Twenty-nine years have passed since 23 May 1992, when Judge Giovanni Falcone was cruelly murdered by the Mafia together with his wife Francesca Morvillo, the escorts Rocco Di Cillo, Vito Schifani and Antonio Montinaro. For me to celebrate its memory means first of all remembering a man at the service of the institutions, with a deep sense of the State that led him to a tireless, extraordinary and effective fight against the underworld. He did so in the conviction of fulfilling his duties as magistrate, even before he was a citizen. He was fully aware that he was the symbol of the State to be struck by the mobs, but he did not hesitate to dedicate his life plans to the search for truth and justice. Well, the search for truth and justice is the only credible way I know to honor the sacrifice of these servants of the State today worthily. On the massacres of 1992 and 1993 there is still so much truth to be discovered and we can get it not only with the work of the judiciary. It is necessary to open the state archives to ensure that pieces of truth come out in order to reconstruct the story of a picture finally united. It is necessary for the citizens to regain confidence in the institutions which I, too, represent in my little one here today, and to do this they must take concrete action. It is also necessary to clarify the contents of the telephone conversations between the former President of the Republic of Naples and the former Minister Mancino, recorded in the context of the investigation on the State-Mafia negotiation. I believe that this also gives meaning and credibility to the institutions. There is a mafia that, in spite of the sentences, remains strong and arrogant, which maintains its possibilities to infiltrate the institutions, because politics is not always firm in the fight against the mafias. Falcone spoke of very refined minds and still today this is the key interpretation of extreme interest to get to the truth. I conclude by saying that I would like to make this contribution to the House today to Giovanni Falcone, Paolo Borsellino, Rosario Livatino, the latter celebrated and honoured a few days ago, who said that no one will come to ask us how much we have been believers, but how credible we have been. This contribution is also addressed to police officers, carabinieri, all servants of the fallen state, exercising their duty in the respect of justice. One day this country will have to honor their sacrifice worthily, restoring the whole truth. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u123	Senator Auddino, I would just like to remind you and the House that some of the arguments you have touched are within the competence of the Anti-Mafia Parliamentary Commission, which is the seat of the House to deal with them, so this also applies to you and your statements. [[Comments.]] End-of-session intervention is not the most appropriate place to enter the substance of important investigations. [[Comments]] No, it's not a dialogue between you and me. [[Comments]] Yeah, but that's not what we're discussing here, Senator. You will have understood perfectly well that we were not discussing this. My note did not refer to this, in fact I did end it.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u124	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u125	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u126	GRANATO (Mixed). Mr President, two weeks ago in the Senate an amendment of the Democratic Party was approved to the bill of conversion of the so-called Covid Decree-Law, which equals, for legal purposes, for access to competitions in public administrations, the master's degree in the sciences of religions with those in historical, philosophical, cultural anthropology and ethnology. At the moment the measure is being converted to the Chamber of Deputies (it should have already been approved). Thanks to the equivalence of these titles, even those who have a three-year degree obtained at the Higher Institute of Religious Sciences accredited by the Vatican City, accessing the Master's degree course in the sciences of religions (and this, for example, at the University of Studio Roma Tre takes place only with an interview on the curriculum vitae), with some more credit can teach humanities in state schools, as well as carry out competitions at the public administration. Thanks to an amendment, which therefore seems trivial and certainly devoid of any necessity and urgency, we officially recognize a bridge between two different paths of study: one doctrinal, the other historical, philosophical and humanistic. It is therefore more tempting to enroll in confessional courses at the pontifical universities that are in decline, broadening the employment perspective. But what is the utility for the state? Certainly the rankings of teachers of historical and philosophical disciplines do not need expansive measures, already being sufficiently full of aspirants; if we then imagine the arranged combination between this device and the so-called Brunetta reform of public competitions, which can interfere even with the notices already published, we seriously risk a postponement and an alteration of the procedures that can cause imbalances between legitimate aspirants. It is clear that this regulatory mechanism does not have any public utility, but it clearly interferes with the principle of secularity of the State and the constitutional principles of efficiency and good performance. Among other things, it did not present any character of necessity and urgency to be included in a bill of conversion of decree-law. Nevertheless, it was approved in the Assembly after passing the scrutiny of both the Senate Constitutional Affairs Committee, the Universities and Research Ministries and the public administration, and certainly the Chamber of Deputies has also unified. This makes it clear that there are people in this country who can and can't. The Democratic Party is not new to prebende ecclesiastical circles. We recall the famous Law No 62 of 10 March 2000, which regulates school equality, which has even found its place, thanks to its sponsor, Luigi Berlinguer, in Article 33 of the Constitution, which is the origin of several attempts to transform our public education system into an integrated public-private system, or an individual demand service. That's to legitimize funding for peer schools, direct and... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u127	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u128	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u129	LUNESU (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, this time it happened at 10 a.m. in Iglesias, on a railroad overpass. The victim is a 25-year-old girl. A man with a screwdriver in his hand chased her, already bloody and desperate, and was about to hit her again on the head when the timeliness of the firefighters, who from the top of their large vehicle were able to watch the scene, avoided the worst. In serious condition with wounds to the throat and head, he is not in danger of life. The assailant, 47 years old, accused of attempted murder and with a record of attempted sexual violence against another woman, would observe the movements of the victim, who returned after accompanying his five-year-old daughter to school. We are faced with social problems of considerable importance: at the centre is yet another aggression and violence against a woman who was walking on the street. The concern that often assaults you when you are alone on the street is to be attacked, beaten and often raped; so you avoid going out at night. But when all this happens at 10:00 in the morning, you just don't expect it. That is unacceptable. But this time I applaud the immediate intervention of the firemen, whom I thank on behalf of all the Sardinian citizens, who with a spirit of service first assisted the victim, called 113 and the policemen of the steering wheel and the investigators of the anti-crime section who, intercepting the man, stopped him. The men and women of the Forces of Order protect us and give us security. But of extreme importance is also the aggressor who probably suffers from psychic disorders. This does not mean avoiding the criminal consequences resulting from this act of extreme violence, also because it had been accused of sexual violence before, but at the same time it should be provided for a careful psychiatric and psychological evaluation to understand the motivations behind violent behavior and it would be necessary to put in place specific interventions aimed at preventing that, without the penalty, resume to harass women. The territorial services that are established to accommodate patients with mental illness are often simple clinics dispensers of drugs and the result could be the one that we have witnessed. I therefore take the cue from this episode to reaffirm how important it is to strengthen the territorial assistance, improve it and take care of mental health and pathological addictions for too long neglected, and not only in our territory. There is a need for a global rethink of public health in relation to today's health needs, care for children, families and situations of discomfort, with attention to victims of ill-treatment and abuse, including agreements and agreements with agencies and associations in charge. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u130	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-330.ana.u131	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 26 May, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.42 p.m.
