ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.35 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Montevecchi, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting on 13 May. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u3	At 6.30 p.m. tomorrow's sitting, on Wednesday 19 May, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation will make information on security in the Mediterranean in the light of the latest developments. Groups will be able to intervene for ten minutes. I communicate that, in agreement with the President of the Chamber of Deputies, the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the activities related to family communities that receive minors is convened for its constitution on Thursday 27 May, at 9 a.m., at the headquarters of Palazzo San Macuto.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u4	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u5	[[The President and the Assembly stand.]] Senators, I would like to invite this Assembly to join in the solemn remembrance of Judge Rosario Livatino on the occasion of his beatification as martyr of justice and faith. Born in Canicattì in 1952, Rosario Livatino had entered the judiciary at only 26 years of age, immediately beginning to deal with mafia crime. He was a courageous judge, capable, prepared; above all, he was a man strongly linked to the values of the Catholic faith: values lived also through the rigour of dedication to work, the constant effort in the search for truth in every fact submitted to his judgment and the concrete attention to the person, to his ability to redeem himself despite the most serious errors. A young magistrate deeply convinced that justice had an indispensable social function and that it was the duty of the judge to apply the law with balance and humanity. A function that had to be measured both in terms of the consistency of judicial action and of the transparency and absolute third-party of the judge, a condition in which he firmly believed recalling on several occasions - with words that today acquire a new topicality - how the external credibility of the judiciary as a whole and in each of its components represents an essential value in a democratic state. This was Rosario Livatino, a true servant of the State: authoritative, credible and transparent; a man in love with his land and determined to defend it, tirelessly pursuing truth and justice: that Sicily that in the middle of the eighties lived its darkest night, torn by the wars of mafia, corruption and the ruthless ferocity of a criminal system so entrenched in the social fabric that it seemed almost impossible to eradicate. A system that Rosario Livatino managed to counter with great intelligence. He was among the first magistrates in Italy to make extensive use of the confiscation of assets as a means to strike the Mafia at the heart, to weaken it, to demonstrate its vulnerability, to ensure that it was no longer citizens who feared the Mafia, but that it was the Mafia that was afraid of the State. And Rosario Livatino was afraid of that ruthless and cowardly mob who on the morning of September 21, 1990 took his life with bullets in a fierce ambush, tense as he went to court without escort and aboard his utilitarian. A painful death for all, destined to shake the consciences not only of institutions and citizens, but of the whole Christian world. Unforgettable is still in our memory that "Convert yourselves!" (Crying in the memory of Rosario Livatino to the mob criminals by the then Pope St. John Paul II, right from the Valley of the Temples of Agrigento). The beatification - strongly desired by Pope Francis - of Rosario Livatino as martyr of the values of the Constitution, supported by the strength of an authentic Catholic faith, opens a new important chapter in the fight against every form of organized crime. A chapter in which the example and moral heritage of women and men like Rosario Livatino can truly guide us towards an ever more freer future from the mafias, more and more free from corruption, more and more free from violence. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u8	PILON (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, it is an honour for me to be able to commemorate in this House the Blessed Rosario Angelo Livatino. His last words were "Picciotti, what have I done to you?" and then fell under the blows of his hit men, and dying looked them in the face. It was September 21, 1990. In his words we find the echo of the words of the prophet Micah, who in chapter 6 makes the Messiah say: My people, what have I done to you? What did I grieve you in? Before surrendering himself to death, the Just One asked for account of evil and in doing so restored the rank of men to those who were no different from bloodthirsty beasts. One of the things that struck me most by studying the memory of Rosario Livatino is that many of his assassins converted to prison, abandoned the Mafia and embraced the Christian faith. As you said, Madam President, just three years after this murder, on May 9, 1993, in those same districts echoed the words of Saint John Paul II and not by chance on May 9, 2021, then on the same date, Judge Rosario Livatino became blessed. Rosario Livatino was in the front line against the Mafia, but with surprising prophetic dowry he knew how to denounce early social evils that today, thirty-five years later, have unfortunately shown themselves in all their dramatic strength. It anticipates the drift of a certain judiciary when in a speech held on April 7, 1984 he said: The independence of the judge is not only in his own conscience, in his incessant moral freedom, in his fidelity to principles, in his capacity for sacrifice, in his technical knowledge, in his experience, in the clarity and linearity of his decisions, but also in his morality, in the transparency of his conduct even outside the walls of his office, in the normality of his relations and his manifestations in social life, in the choice of his friendships, in his unwillingness to initiatives and business, all that is allowed but risky, in the renunciation of every desire for duties and prebende, especially in areas that, by their nature or for the implications they entail, can produce the germ of contamination and the danger of interference. Truly prophetic words. He also anticipated and stigmatized the dangerous social engineering experiments with which today we aim to destroy man and family, experiments today unfortunately on the agenda. On April 30, 1986, he spoke clearly against euthanasia, saying: The position of Christian morality on the point is simple and crystal clear: it informs itself of the principle of intangibility, sacredness and inviolability of human life. He also spoke clearly against assisted fertilization and the womb for rent, as activities that could take away from the donor the responsibility to take care of the offspring, to take away from the children the beauty of knowing the father and the mother. A man, a magistrate, a prophet, and now also a blessed: We need men like these. Let's hope Heaven intercedes for us. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u11	SBROLLINI (IV-PSI). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I would like to begin by thanking the Presidency for giving us the opportunity to recall the figure of Rosario Livatino and to reflect on the topicality of the issue of commitment against all forms of mafia oppression, which pollutes economic, political and social life. Moreover, occasions like this take on such significance that, if one escapes from rhetoric, they become moments to reflect and opportunities to renew the memory of Livatino's example and his sacrifice, looking to the present and the future, so that those values of legality and freedom are projected in the commitment that each one is called every day. The month of May is unfortunately full of anniversaries, from that of the massacre of Portella della Ginestra, of the first May of seventy-four years ago, to the barbarian murders of Pietro Scaglione and Peppino Impastato, up to the massacre of Capaci. It is impossible not to grasp a link precisely between the murder of Livatino and the unfortunately long sequel of deaths that bloodied in the early nineties. I have lived the memory of those years, of the climate of fear, but also of the ability shown by the judiciary and the forces of order, by the school and civil society, to be able to react and respond to the mafia violence, not only by hitting those responsible, but also by affirming the culture of legality, understood not only as a name, however necessary, but as respect for the norms and as a corollary and condition of freedom, such as freedom from fear and blackmail, freedom to live and build, to think, to speak and to do business. At a distance of about thirty years from one of the longest moments, in the long history of Sicily and the whole country, in remembering Livatino, like the others, many, too many fallen in the fight against the mafia, we can say that that season has contributed to a profound cultural change and to the rejection by the new generations of the heavy Mafia heritage. We would say today that Livatino was a boy, or rather a young man, who simply looked to the future, a future in which, rather than the mafia and even the anti-mafia, respect for the laws was normal. As a careful jurist, he was able to grasp the delicacy of the role of magistrate that he held, attentive to reaffirming the independence of the jurisdiction, but also the duties related to the function. In this sense, more than anything else, his own words are worth it. In fact he said that: "the independence of the judge (...) is not only in his own conscience, in (...) moral freedom, in his faithfulness to the principles (...), in the clarity and linearity of his decisions, but also in his morality, (...) in the normality of his relations and his manifestations in social life" and "in his credibility," which he manages to conquer in the labor of his decisions and at every moment of his activity." More than ever, the warning on the need for impartiality, substantial and formal, of those who are called to judge without yielding to the sirens of media protagonism and also in this lesson represented by Livatino's thought and conduct of life offers the starting point to reflect, even on the ever-present danger of the exploitation of anti-mafia, its transformation into professionalism. In this, deep religious faith was able to accompany him in facing his path, as something that completed and strengthened his dedication to justice. It is not by chance that just three years later, right in his own city... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u12	Thank you, Senator Brilliant. He may deliver the text of his statement to the effect that it is annexed to the acts.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u15	Mr Urso (FdI). Mr President, we in the Brothers of Italy Group want to pay tribute here to Judge Rosario Livatino, on the occasion of his beatification, having been recognized - as you yourself said, Mr President - as the martyr of justice and faith. Here we want to emphasize and celebrate its value as a civil hero: the scrupulous, far-sighted judge, above all courageous and of high, exceptional moral rigour. Apolitical, autonomous and independent, far from conditioning of any kind, but also ready for dialogue and respect for all the actors of the process, not least the person to be judged. A just man, precisely a judge, a magistrate with a sense of the state, never biased. He didn't do interviews, Livatino; he shunned character and completely devoid of protagonism, he acted with acts in proceedings, never in newspapers. A judge like us all would like to, and from whom we all - if it ever happened - would like to be judged. Although he was considered and defined as "the young judge," he was to some extent an old-fashioned judge, but at the same time he had great foresight: he was among the first to take action on the patrimony of the mafia and confiscate him, on white collars, crimes against the environment and the eco-mafia; he was among the first to understand the development of the mafia power, his complex articulation also political, the internal conflicts, the war between the stigma and the mafia. In all this, Livatino was certainly motivated also by faith, by an unshakable faith, and for this reason also considered unapproachable. In his cards there was always the simple and direct reference. He himself wrote: "Under the protection of God," but - beware - always in the name of the law, in the name of the State. I think it is important to know how Livatino could perfectly combine his faith, which motivated him from within in his actions and made him unshakable, with the need to apply the law of the Italian State. We are therefore proud, by Italian citizens, by men of institutions and by believers, that he is also recognized as blessed in his process of sanctification, and that there is a day dedicated to him: October 29. In fact, beyond his human story, there is another much more significant and pregnant one that concerns all of us always and in any case beyond the generations, in which none of us is a judge, even if some judges think they are anyway. This connection in him between a man of state and a believer is found not only in his behavior as a citizen, and therefore as a judge, but above all in the events that occurred after his death and with his death. It was pointed out earlier: he was killed on August 21, 1990, at the darkest moment in the history of Sicily, when everything seemed irreparable; but other judges acted in that context and did not stop. How can we not remember the death, in the summer of 1992, before Judge Falcone and then Judge Borsellino in Via D'Amelio? How can we not remember the widow Schifani who, in the churchyard, as a humble widow of the people said: I forgive you, but do you have to get on your knees? That was a clear sign of something stronger than civil engagement. May 9, 1993... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u16	Thank you, Senator. He may, however, submit the text of his statement in order to be annexed to the acts.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u19	MIRABELLI (PD). Mr President, we would like to recall Rosario Livatino, who was proclaimed blessed on 9 May. It is not a random date: it is the same day that our country remembers the abduction of Aldo Moro and the murder of Mafia Peppino Impastato, two of the hardest and most painful pages of our country's life. The Beatific Church Livatino and, with yet another strong gesture in Sicily, confirms the commitment of Catholics against the mafias and the distance from those worlds, which often seek instead to use religion to create social consensus. Rosario Livatino was the youngest of the many martyr magistrates, victims of the Mafia; killed with terrible determination, in contempt of human life, in a real execution. Why? Because - as stated in the sentence of condemnation of the perpetrators of the crime - he pursued the thighs (...) where he would have claimed a lax treatment (...) if not complacent. Livatino, therefore, was a man who did his duty. He had pursued and condemned the men of the stigma; he had the courage to apply preventive measures in an innovative and effective way - as the President recalled. He was the first to find a way to confiscate the property of the mobsters. He knew the risks of the Mafia wars in Sicily, but precisely for this reason, in order not to endanger other lives (let's remember), he refused the escort and found himself alone in front of his performers. His skill, his determination have never, however, made him lose sight of humanity; he has never conceived prosecution as revenge and has come to forgive his murderers. Rosario Livatino kept to his work, he fought for the rigour and credibility of the judiciary. In a difficult environment, he chose to stay where the most dangerous enemy, the Mafia, was, and never gave up and never went back. Doing his duty, he never stopped testifying to his faith. Today we remember a man who is an example; he must be, as a Christian, as a man and as a magistrate. But I also want to remember on this occasion a man, Piero Nava, who had the courage to denounce, identify and testify at the trial, making sure that the executioners of that horrendous crime were punished. Piero Nava made a choice of civilization and civic sense that changed his life; but he told us - in the interviews in these months, after years - that he is proud of that choice. I believe that today we do well to remember in this House Livatino, to say that the institutions do not forget those who have been able to represent them so well, those who have been able to represent the State and the country, coming to the extreme sacrifice. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u22	Grasso (Misto-Leu-Eco). Mr President, on 21 September 1990 the news of the killing of Rosario Livatino reached me while I was in Rome at the Anti-Mafia Parliamentary Commission as a consultant. I immediately returned to Palermo, reached Giovanni Falcone, who had already installed himself as assistant prosecutor, and together, grieved and dismayed, we tried to understand the reasons for that vile attack. We knew that as a prosecutor he had dealt with the first significant investigation into the agrigentine mafia that had led to the condemnation of many mobsters. I reported to Falcone that I had met him in May, a few months earlier, on the occasion of a mission of the Anti-Mafia Commission to the court in Agrigento decided after a shocking succession of murders that, due to their heinousness, had hit the public. For about a year he had been a judge at the same court and had been assigned to civil cases, but for the well-known shortcomings of magistrates he dealt full-time with prevention measures and confiscated goods. The next day I went with Falcone to his funeral in Canicattì. I have vivid memories of that moment: the coffin carried on the shoulder by his colleagues, placed in the church, wrapped in the robe and the Tricolor, covered with flowers; next, standing, six magistrates in toga; behind, two armorers sent by the President of the Republic. A strong wave of emotion pervaded the country, which only at that moment discovered his story as a good man, his life as a rigorous and shy judge, his clean face. He became for everyone and will be forever the judge boy. It is important to remember how heavy the atmosphere was at that time in Sicily, because it emerges with even more force his courage, his becoming his despite a martyr. Thanks to the immediate collaboration of an eyewitness, Pietro Nava, who will be forced, for his safety, to abandon his work as a commercial agent and to emigrate abroad, the investigations and three trials that have followed over the years have shed light on the causes, on the senders, on the perpetrators of that massacre. That lukewarm morning of September 21, 1990, I placed in the bag the files studied until late night of the hearing of the preventive measures, which he wanted to define after having even postponed the holidays, as every morning on board his car the highway that from Canicattì took him to the court in Agrigento, when a commando of four men stole the road and opened fire. Wounded at one shoulder, a gun jammed, he fled on foot, but was hunted like a prey, stumbled, broke his ankle and when it was reached at the bottom of the escarpment, the pursuer asked the question of who has always acted according to conscience: pigeons, what have I done to you? The answer was a stroke of grace to the head. An elimination, his, carried out by killers of Palma di Montechiaro and Canicattì as an expression of the joint struggle on our part by emerging criminal groups, the members of the so-called stidda (star), who wanted to demonstrate, with the killing of a judge, their criminal power. On a page of his agenda and in other writings a small cross was found and under the initials STD; The three letters were a real puzzle; the explanation was found in his thesis, in his faith: under protection of the, he invoked divine assistance in his work as judge. He had a fidelity to the law and to his conscience, a commitment to professional preparation, an extreme care in decisions, a rigorous conduct of life, seriousness, balance, responsibility, humanity, that of which still today the judiciary should bear daily witness in order to take away that shadow of current system and political, media and judicial power that, because of the behavior of some of its members, defy the credibility of an entire category. [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u23	Thank you, Senator Grasso. He may deliver the text of his statement to the effect that it is annexed to the acts.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u24	I would like to end by announcing that the Parliamentary Anti-Mafia Commission has just unanimously approved a report, which will be sent to both Chambers, illustrating the criminal context in which the killing of Rosario Livatino has matured, as well as its role and its measures, in order to give a complete picture of the exemplary work of this magistrate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u27	CALIENDO (FIBP-UDC). Rosario Livatino, Magistrate assassinated at the age of thirty-seven, has been blessed since Sunday, May 9, 2021. The Catholic Church worships him as a martyr of justice. Livatino is an example of full consistency between faith, life and profession of magistrate. We have found the path consistent since, in the years of high school, he engaged in Catholic Action, in prayer and in the diutary visit to the Blessed Sacrament - so much so that the mafiosos called it derogatoryly "saint eye" and at first, for this reason, they planned the ambush before the church - as well as in the everyday life and professional activity. Just think that on all the notes, the documents, the notebooks were reported the acronym STD, that the investigators, after death, took time to decode, but that meant sub protection Gods. His professional commitment also led him to reflect and deepen the characteristics of the magistrate and the duty not to bend the law to the interest of the party. Again, on the relationship between magistrate and politician, in 1984 he said: It would be extremely appropriate for judges to waive participation in electoral competitions as candidates or, if they consider that the seat in Parliament exceeds much in prestige, power and importance the judge's office, they would make an irrevocable choice, burning behind all the vessels behind them, with the definitive resignation from the judicial order. In 1986 it reflected on rules that apply to anyone exercising jurisdiction: The magistrate's task is to decide. Well, deciding is to choose and, sometimes, between many things or roads or solutions. And choosing is one of the hardest things that man is called to do. And it is precisely in this choosing to decide, to decide to ordain, that the believing magistrate can find a relationship with God. A direct relationship, because the rendering of justice is self-fulfillment, it is prayer, it is self-dedication to God. An indirect relationship through love towards the person judged. On the agenda of Livatino on 18 July 1978 it is noted: Today I took an oath; from today I am in Magistracy. May God accompany me and help me to respect the oath and to behave in the way that my parents have taught me. Sorry for the emotion, but I met Rosario Livatino in that year, who attended the course on the right of the person and family law that I held as a member of the Council to the judicial hearers. [[Applause]] It was huge, then, the tragedy in my eyes, when a few years after his death, going to his house, on his desk I found a notepad on those lessons, with my name imprinted on the front page. Livatino entered the judiciary in 1978 and from 1978 to 1979 he was a prosecutor in Agrigento. At that time he was involved in mafia trials, but also in common crime. From 1989 instead he passed to the judge as a judge to fight to deal - as has already been mentioned - with kidnappings and confiscations of goods. He died as he had lived, respecting the defendants, even those who had stained themselves with the most serious crimes because they were first people: this was his belief. [[Applause.]] Sometimes he went to the morgue to pray in front of the dead mobsters killed. Once, in a very hot August, he personally brought the release order of a recluse to prison. To those who were amazed, he said: Inside the prison there is one person who does not have to stay an extra minute. The freedom of the individual must prevail over all things. [[Applause]] Dear Rosario, I still don't know how to pray to you and ask for help, but I ask you to enlighten us all in identifying the right reforms for justice as you intended. Vale Rosario. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u30	LICHERI (M5S). Mr President, I remember the last words spoken by Rosario Livatino: 'What did I do to you?' He pronounced them on his way to court as he did every day, without escort; strong words of an innocence that wounded - as we know - even his executioners. Rosario Livatino was in fact a judge who faced evils in all its aspects, to save the victims and the guilty; a man who pursued one truth, one, that of justice and did it at the cost of his own life, as a fool, as a dreamer, because without madmen and dreamers there would be no future. Rosario Livatino walked the streets of that Sicily sick of silences, submission, heads chine on the part of those who had to fight for justice, but gave in to fear. Rosario, on the other hand, did not hide, walked without escort, aware of being in the hands of God and saying an important thing, a great truth: When we die, no one will come to ask us how much we have been believers, but credible. His credibility was in an immense faith both in the Lord and in freedom; freedom, the right engine of our actions, which can be risky. Yet, no existence can ignore freedom and we must all treasure lives so concrete that even the worst mafias, all the mafias of the world, even if priests, magistrates and lawyers have fallen on the pavement of freedom; lives that looked at the guilty because in search of man, in search of the soul, people who went beyond the crime. Rosario did this: he did not look down on the guilty during his judgments and wept before their killings. And then the blood shed by him and the other martyrs goes to quench a wonderful land, but sick, because the mafias - my dear senators, my dear senators - are there, are here, and we have the duty to transform the blood shed into concrete actions, into laws of the State, into models to follow for our children and grandchildren. On September 21, 1990, Rosario lost his life and today he is the first magistrate in history to become blessed. Under protection of the, it was written in the agenda found near his lifeless body. It is in fact in the hands of the Lord that he was delivered that September 21, 1990 and it is in his hands that he will remain forever. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u31	Colleagues, for a better organization of tomorrow's work, I communicate the order of relations defined by the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities in accordance with the provisions of Article 68 of the Constitution. At tomorrow's sitting we will then examine document IV-b, No 7, against Senator Stefano Candiani regarding a criminal proceeding pending at the court of Rome, plaintiff Antonio Giudice. Then there was document IV-b, n. 9, against Senator Vincenzo Santangelo, regarding a criminal proceedings pending at the court of Trapani, plaintiffs Rocco Giacomazzi and Lucio Massimo Marino of Telesud 3 srl. However, I deleted it from the discussion because the court of Trapani, with sentence of 30 April 2021, n. 517, stated that it did not have to proceed against Senator Santangelo for the extinction of the crime following the remission of the plaintiff. We will then examine document IV-Ter 8, against Senator Mario Michele Giarrusso, regarding a civil proceeding pending at the court of Agrigento, plaintiff Filippo Caci; document IV-Ter, n. 10, against Senator Laura Bottici, regarding a criminal proceeding pending at the court of Massa, plaintiff administrators of the municipality and the mayor Angelo Zubbani; document IV-Ter, n. 11, against Senator Maurizio Gasparri, regarding a criminal proceeding pending at the court of Rome, plaintiff Dr Roberta Calzolari; document IV-Ter, n. 13, against Senator Mario Michele Giarrusso, regarding a criminal proceeding pending at the court of Trapani, plaintiff Mr Biagio Bosco; document IV-Ter, n. 1, for declaratory of insindacability advanced by Senator Anna Maria Bernini, pending at the court of mediation of Rome; document IV-Cer, n. 2, for declaratory by the court of Franconini, n. Then there is document IV, n. 2, against Senator Armando Siri, regarding a criminal proceeding pending at the Milan court and another against Senator Armando Siri himself, regarding a criminal proceeding still pending at the Milan court. In this regard, I would like to point out that, by order of the review court of 19 May 2020, the decree of seizure issued against Mr. Luca Perini, Senator Siri's collaborator, was annulled, and that annulment was confirmed by the Court of Cassation at the hearing on 8 October 2020. The Milan Public Prosecutor wrote on 18 May 2021, considering both requests for authorization regarding Senator Siri in relation to the changed legal qualification of the pipelines, without prejudice to the identity of the material facts. Senator Gasparri asked for the floor on this. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u32	Mr President, I would like to thank you for giving us a detailed account of the order in which we will be dealing tomorrow with documents from the Assembly of the elections and parliamentary immunities which have accumulated since there has been no opportunity to schedule the discussion of these issues in the proceedings of this House. I would just like to point out that some events have developed in the last few hours. In the Junta of the elections and parliamentary immunity we voted on an affair concerning Senator Santangelo, but precisely today I received news - I say this to my fellow members of the Junta, since it has not arrived in time in Junta, as well as to all the other senators - that, as you correctly communicated, the issue no longer exists with regard to Senator Santangelo. In fact, as the court of Trapani communicates with a judgment, the complaint has failed and, therefore, the question no longer exists. There are two questions concerning Senator Siri: one concerns him through his collaborator - Perini - on which there was then a ruling of the Court of Cassation that annulled the seizure decree, while the other directly concerns him. The two questions are parallel: one judged by the Court of Cassation, which annulled the seizure order, while the other still pending. I asked the Milan Public Prosecutor about what was there or not to see if we should act. Today - exactly two hours ago - I received a letter - Vice President Cucca does not know yet, because it has arrived just now - with which the Milan Public Prosecutor communicates that he continues his initiative and will provide us with further documentation and evaluations. It is obvious that it is not appropriate to deal tomorrow with Senator Siri's case because we will return to deal with it in Giunta in the light of what the Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Milan will think to put back to the Senate. We had announced that it was on the agenda tomorrow and it was pointless for this House to comment on events which still have their own dynamic. As I have already said, the letter arrived earlier and announces that there are evaluations that will be communicated in the appropriate forms. The affair concerning Senator Santangelo is therefore no longer on the agenda for the reasons given, while the affair concerning Senator Siri will have to return to the examination of the Junta. Therefore, it will not be discussed by the House tomorrow, waiting for the Junta, on the basis of what will be communicated to us, to make its own assessments. It seems to me that this aspect has emerged in the last few hours. When arguments are calendarized, everything becomes faster. Tomorrow, the Members of the European Parliament will be in the Chamber to carry out the reports and then the House will make its own assessments.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u33	Thank you, Mr Gasparri, and we must take note of that. Finally, we will examine document No 1 against Senator Luigi Cesaro (criminal proceeding pending at the Tribunale di Napoli Nord); document No 3 against Mr Carlo Amedeo Giovanardi (criminal proceeding pending at the Tribunale di Bologna); document No 7 against Senator Luigi Cesaro (criminal proceeding pending at the Tribunale di Napoli); document No 8 against Senator Roberto Marti (trial pending at the Tribunale di Lecce).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u34	Colleagues, the Committee for the Rules of Procedure, meeting on 11 May 2021, delivered the following opinion: Taking into account the discipline laid down for parliamentary groups by Article 14 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, the establishment of political components within the Mixed Group is permitted provided that they represent political parties or movements which have presented candidates for the last national elections with their own mark, alone or connected. Senators wishing to form a political component within the Mixed Group must be authorised to represent the party or political movement holding the mark presented at the elections, by means of a declaration signed by the legal representative of that political formation. For the final explanations of vote of the Mixed Group, the Conference of Leaders sets out the additional deadlines provided for in Article 109, paragraph 2-a, of the Rules of Procedure and the time allocated to senators who wish to disassociate themselves from the positions expressed by the representative of the Mixed Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u37	CRUCIOLI (Mixed). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business with regard to what you have just read. We have understood perfectly the first part, the part where it says that even for the members we need to refer to a Group. Of course we do not agree and we find this interpretation liberticidal; but it is clear and nothing we can say here. On the contrary, the second part of what he read is not understandable. We have not understood whether or not we can continue to represent a different position within the Mixed Group. From what we understand, he doesn't say one thing or the other.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u38	Senator Crucioli, perhaps the mask did not make me feel well the expressions I have just read, which are the result of a decision of the Council for the Rules of Procedure. As far as the regulation of dissent is concerned, you know that there is a first paragraph of Rule 109 - which would then be a second - because the first paragraph has been repealed, if I recall correctly - which regulates the dissent of all the parliamentary groups. Then there is another paragraph, which would be the second or third - depending on whether you consider the first one that has been repealed - which instead grants the Mixed Group, precisely because of its varied composition, in the final explanation of vote five more minutes, compared to the ten provided for by the Rules for the other Groups. On the other hand, dissent has not been regulated. Then, in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, we decided, as set out at the Conference of the Leaders, on the additional time to be given to the Mixed Group for discussion, explanations of vote or what it is, that dissent will also take place. There will also be a time for dissent from what is the explanation of vote of the Mixed Group. Is that clear? Maybe that's a clearer way of saying it. In any case, you will be able to read everything in the Minutes of today's sitting and therefore read it. [[Comments of Senator Crucioli]] We cannot now give rise to a debate between you and me. CRUCIOLI (Mixed). We are not represented at the Conference of Leaders. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I don't understand what you're saying. CRUCIOLI (Mixed). If this is democracy for you, it's okay!
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u39	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2201, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Dal Mas, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u40	Mr President, the Senate is called upon to examine bill No 2201, which converts Decree-Law No 42 of 2021. [[Brusio.]] (The sitting was suspended at 5.40 p.m. and resumed at 5.40 p.m.) When the President takes his place, perhaps the House will give me the opportunity to speak, because it is difficult to speak with this buzz. Let's do the same and move on. The decree-law of the Draghi Government corrects and, on the contrary, prevents the formation of a breach in the system of food security, as planned and wanted, perhaps by oversight, error or by a different design or a different political intention, by the previous Government Count II. I refer in particular to Article 18 of Legislative Decree No 27 of 2021. With this legislative decree, since 26 March some criminal offences and administrative sanctions that constitute the fabric on which part of the system of controls pertaining to food safety would have evaporated from the law. As we know, there is a more important first band of crimes that are related to food counterfeiting and sophistication (Articles 439 et seq. of the Criminal Code) and then there are other sanctions provided for by a law that is over sixty years old. I am referring to Law 283 of 1962 which, by virtue of this legislative decree, was actually swept away. There was a real abolition of crimes or a repealed cum abolished and not only abolished. Colleagues, in fact, there would not have been anything else that would have been relived; simply a behavior was removed from the order because it no longer considered criminally relevant. Under Article 2, paragraph 2, of the Criminal Code, that fact no longer constituting a criminal offence would no longer have been punishable and, therefore, all the ongoing proceedings, both at the stage of the investigations (Article 411) and at the stage of the definitive penalty, would have resulted in a declaration of no longer having to proceed because the fact is no longer a criminal offence and no longer has any consequence, with the further characteristic that in that case the judge, in front of a possible violation, would not have even reported any sanctions to the competent administrative authorities. We are talking about Article 5 of the law which contains rules to protect food safety and against the lack of essential requirements declared in food, the presence of excessive microbial charges and food counterfeiting. Perhaps the previous government wanted to introduce a new vision inspired by Europe. It all stems from the fact that the European legislation and the 2019 delegation law confer on States a task of reviewing food safety legislation. In the House there is a bill that sees the tightening of controls and sanctions and, therefore, strengthens the culture that wants the greater safety of food production. Therefore, the decree-law aims to allow the maintenance of criminal sanctions, therefore controls to protect food safety. During the conversion to the Chamber, two very important articles were also introduced: the first basically constitutes a defensive guarantee, namely the possibility of extending Article 223 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (implementation provisions), i.e. to be informed at the time when investigations are carried out, indeed at the time when analyses are being carried out on samples of products subject to investigation for possible counterfeiting or violation of rules. So this is basically a rule that increases defensive guarantees. A further article, also introduced in the context of conversion to the Chamber, allows to render not applicable the administrative sanctions referred to in Law No 91 of 2014 if there is an active repentance. I pay particular attention to this rule because, in fact, it allows those who settle within thirty days - and no longer ninety - from the so-called warning, to avoid the administrative penalty. It is a standard of common sense, not punitive, which also takes into account the different needs that may exist in the world of agricultural production. But we are talking about small violations, violations that can be remedied from the point of view of both the agri-food sector and exquisitely administrative and agro-food sector. Mr President, I do not think I should add anything else. This is a necessary, useful, urgent decree-law that prevents our system from being open to sudden pitfalls due to the lack of legislation that would have been deleted in fact without adequate protection and coordination with the other existing rules in the legal system. I therefore call - and I think it is the general interest of this House - for the conversion of this decree-law. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u41	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Rizzotti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u42	Mr President, the Italian food industry of both production and processing is among the best on the international market. Attention to this sector is essential, given the importance of this manufacturing industry in our economic and social system. In fact, Italy is the country where products have been created that have become our well-known and respected heritage from all over the world: made in Italy agri-food. We cannot undermine the leadership we have achieved at international level and we must maintain the very high safety standards of our food products. Let us not forget that food safety has characteristics of the public good; we must ensure levels of safety for the benefit of the consumer and public health. In this direction, the correct traceability and traceability of the products and raw materials from which they are derived is necessary. Proper traceability is the pillar of policies to make food choice transparent, also in view of the fact that we see increasing expectations in consumers. This is a check concerning Italian or other products intended to be marketed on national territory or intended for other Member States of the Union or also exported. The purpose of the control is to provide consumers with accurate information on products and ensure the circulation of safe foods, thanks to the possibility of reconstructing the entire path of food in order to be able to withdraw, if appropriate, those at risk. This complex system of controls takes place at all stages of production, processing, distribution, storage, transport and trade and administration. The conversion decree aims to correct Article 18 of Legislative Decree No 27 of 2 February 2021, which follows the European Regulation which inexplicably repeals several offences. The aim of this decree is therefore to prevent significant sectors from being deprived of criminal and administrative sanctions, thus exposing certain important sectors to serious risks to the health of consumers. For Forza Italia, food security has always been of great attention: this is demonstrated by the battle in Europe of the Berlusconi Government since 2002 to obtain the seat of the European Food Safety Agency in Parma in 2004. [[Applause]] It has been certified by a study of the University of Parma how much it has impacted and impacted favorably on economics and development in fifteen years the fact that it has its headquarters on its territory. Unfortunately, the same commitment to have in Italy a headquarters of the drug agency, the EMA, has not been made by recent governments, not voted by Italians, because in Europe one must work first through relations with other countries and other parliamentarians. For our superficiality the EMA went to Amsterdam after a draw, a city that did not even have a seat and took three years to create it. It did not go to Milan that it already had a seat available, thus losing the possibility of GDP growth of 2%. Our national laws on food safety are the strictest in Europe and perhaps in the world and this right safety for the health of our citizens obviously falls on our products that have production costs higher than competing countries. My appeal to the Government is that it should promote in Europe an adaptation of other countries to our laws on food security. I also call on all Members of the European Parliament to support the battle of Forza Italia against the abomination of nutritious score, the latest finding of watered wine, anti-cancer labelling of cold cuts, etc. I trust in the defense of this Government and I invite the Members of the European Parliament of the other political groups to be more present in the Commissions of merit in order to defend the interests of the country without other flags than the Italian one, as the others do, and to dialogue more with the national parliamentarians, so that they do not arrive on the table regulations now immodifiable. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u43	Senator Puglia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u44	Mr President, I take the floor in this high assembly to express my satisfaction and that of the Group to which I belong in connection with this decree-law which contains urgent measures on the sanctioning rules on food safety. I personally took charge of the issue covered by the decree-law together with my colleagues in the Agriculture Commission, interacting with the Ministry in order to remedy the serious situation that would have arisen in the absence of criminal and administrative protection in food matters. The measure, in fact, limits the scope of operation of the discipline referred to in Article 18 of Legislative Decree No. 27 of 2021, which precisely would have resulted in the repeal of the violations and the main administrative offences, referred to in Law No. 283 of 1962, precisely in the matter of food safety. Law 283 of 1962 lays down general, preventive and repressive rules on the hygiene of foodstuffs, including numerous infringements of public health risks. It constitutes the first level of criminal protection along the agri-food chain compared to the most serious crimes under the Criminal Code, Article 439 et seq., applicable when events have already occurred. The legislation prohibits the sale, administration and use of private foods and beverages, even in part, of their nutrients or mixed with substances of inferior quality or in any case treated in such a way as to vary their natural composition, in poor state of conservation, with microbial charges exceeding the limits established by the implementing regulation or ministerial orders, with the addition of chemical additives, of any kind, not authorised by decree of the Ministry of Health or, if they have been authorised, without compliance with the rules prescribed for their use. Therefore, one can well understand the importance of the re-introduction of this legislation. The above infringements result in the penalty of arrest and fine, which is variously determined. Therefore, the decree-law under consideration avoids that important sectors relating to the production and sale of food and beverages remain without sanctioning, criminal and administrative protection, in response to the unexpected decriminalisation, introduced by Legislative Decree No 27 of 2021, of which there was no trace in the draft legislative decree transmitted to Parliament for the prescribed opinion and which could have also presented a possible vice of excess delegation, as stated also by the Court of Cassation, office of the maximum, in the report of 17 March 2021. The delegation law, in fact, only provided for the possibility to adapt and to align the national provisions in force to the provisions of the EU Regulation [25], with the express repeal of the incompatible national rules, in addition to conferring to the Government only the power to redefine the sanctioning system for the violation of the provisions of the EU Regulation [25], through the provision of effective administrative sanctions, dissuasive and proportionate to the seriousness of the violation. In conclusion, as a representative of Parliament and a representative of the 5 Star Movement, which has always had at heart environmental and food issues, and primarily as a citizen, I believe that the high level of protection provided for the consumption and trade of quality products is essential, both to give effective application to the right to health and to protect the quality of our products. This Decree-Law helps to restore and implement the objectives set out above and I thank all the members of the Agriculture and Food Production Commission of my Group, who have been guarantors of the measure under consideration. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u45	Senator La Pietra is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u46	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I think it is appropriate and above all clarification to read the premises of the draft law under consideration, which we are about to vote on today, at second reading. I read a few passages, in my opinion significant: "the regulatory intervention is urgent, it has the aim of preventing the repeal of all the penal and administrative sanctions provisions, provided for by the law of 30 April 1962, n. 283" I jump some technical passages and I always read: Without this intervention, which avoids the repeal of criminal and administrative offences, the effect would be to leave some sectors important for the health of consumers completely unprotected, an effect certainly not desired, at least because not provided for by the law of delegation, by virtue of which legislative decree n. 27 of 2021 was adopted and not accompanied, in the same legislative decree, by actions of a sanctioning nature suitable to affect the same areas. In essence, ladies and gentlemen, it is also said very explicitly, that we must put a patch to the mistake made by the previous decree, by which we eliminated a whole series of sanctioning rules for the protection of the consumer and not only. Attention, therefore: this is not what Senator La Pietra di Fratelli d'Italia says because he is in opposition and therefore somehow we must find something to contest, but the Government writes it in the preface of the bill. Already in itself, therefore, I think we should stigmatize this fact, but above all we should understand from where and from who this macroscopic error of having deleted those sanctioning rules was born. Was it just a mistake, an oversight of itself already serious, or was there the famous hand that somehow - and you don't understand how - unbeknownst to everyone managed to write this thing? We do not know, perhaps we will never know; fact is that very often we have found that this hand occasionally appears and overturns what is written in the decrees. This is not the first time, and it may not be the last, unfortunately. A bit like, for those who love cinematography, the hand of the Addams family, always ready to obey the orders of the landlord. Only in this case you don't know who the landlord is. Returning seriously and returning to merit, it is clear that this oversight - let's call it to be benevolent -, without prejudice to the protection of the health of consumers, would have opened a series of situations that - care - would not have benefited our farmers and producers, but opened the door to a series of products of poor quality, for the benefit of many countries, in the first place China, where quality is certainly not the main objective of production. In essence, it would have been irreparable damage to our quality agri-food productions, and would have opened the market to products that I did not consider and define junk products. Colleagues, perhaps there would be little to talk about this measure, because it is basically three articles as a whole, of which only the first is substantial; so there is little to say. But I leave these considerations to my colleague Mr Balboni, who better than me will be able to enter into the technical and legal aspects. What surprises me is that we have not talked about the consequences and impact of this rule on both food safety and our productions of excellence. I repeat, not to create misunderstandings, that consumer health is a priority for us, but it is also of fundamental importance to protect our agri-food products by strict laws, and we are convinced that penalties must also be strict. Therefore, the protection of producers and consumers: I say this because, when faced with food fraud, there is not only direct and specific damage to the product in question, but very often there is general damage to an entire supply chain or to an entire sector. I believe that we all remember the wine scandal with methanol or the recent scandals about pasta, and we could mention others. The concept is that these frauds do not only harm those who do them, but they damage the image of a whole sector that cannot afford such mistakes. Those who err must be punished, and for us the sanctions for those who harm by their behaviour the image of the Italian quality should even be tightened even more: we consider it neither more nor less like a real betrayal. But if, on the one hand, we say that the wrongdoer must pay and that the penalties are even stricter, on the other, we also say that the government must put in place policies that help our farmers, our farmers and our fishermen; policies that must have two fundamental objectives, one complementary to the other. Firstly, we need more protection for Italian brands against counterfeits that take away from our companies a potential market that is worth more than twice our exports. In fact, compared to about 50 billion agri-food exports, there are more than 100 billion fake Italian products (the phenomenon of Italian soiling). And here our government should be strong in demanding more protection, especially on the European internal front; just as it should be stronger and more determined in calling for the abolition of quality certification systems that penalise our products of excellence than those often made in the laboratory: I mean the nourishing score, the traffic light labelling system; we will actually have to discuss its value in terms of good nutrition. We need more attention to the dynamics of imports of products from abroad which are clearly of poor quality, but which, for the mechanisms of international rebounds, enter the European market and damage our producers. If we want to give a recent example, just think of Chinese honey, made with sugared syrups and entering the market at a reduced price of 80% compared to the average price of a normal natural honey. In this Brothers of Italy for some time now he has been asking that so-called civilization duties be applied, that they affect those products made without respect for environmental, health and safety rules and protection of workers. First of all, therefore, protection of our products; but then, as a second element, economic and financial policies are needed to help agriculture. Farmers' incomes must be protected. Often, in the food supply chains, the actors upstream and downstream of the supply chain, i.e. producers and consumers, are the most penalized: they start from increasingly lower prices, which risk choking producers, and then reaching the consumer, with prices often ten times higher than the price paid at the source. Large-scale distribution must bear the burden of making greater use of the work of farmers. There is also a need for resources to invest in technology and rules to facilitate financial procedures to facilitate credit to farmers. In Italy we have a park of agricultural machinery that is old and unproductive, not to mention the fishing fleet, which is now obsolete for the vast majority of boats. Greater investment also means better quality and greater food safety. There would still be a lot to talk about, Mr President, but I would like to conclude by quoting another important element, which concerns controls. We need more controls on the products that arrive in our country and, above all, to reduce port access for a more widespread control. At the same time, however, we need a simplification of many procedures, which often stifle our farms, which have only one and only one interest: to produce quality and food safety. Finally, it is necessary to take inspiration from what has happened with this measure in order to make a deep reflection on what food security means and, above all, on the legislation that defines its borders, which has now been dated overall for decades, and on which we occasionally intervene in a commercial way, particularly only when Europe asks us to do so. Perhaps we should think of a new framework, perhaps a single text, which is more appropriate to our times and which, at the same time, allows greater protection of the health of consumers and, on the other hand, seeks to facilitate, streamline and better control this important sector of the national economy, which is agri-food. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u47	She's enlisted to speak Senator Abbot. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u48	Mr President, fellow Senators and Senators, with the approval of the bill for the conversion of Decree-Law No 42 of 22 March 2021 on the agenda, the Government has taken steps to repair the risky repeal of the offences provided for in the so-called food law, Law No 283 of 30 April 1962. All the roaming story, which I will briefly mention, is the mirror of the confusion that has been experiencing Italian politics in recent months. In fact, this confused affair must ask us about the way in which legislative work is carried out, in particular in such a sensitive matter as food safety. The decree-law that we are about to convert into law, No. 42 of 22 March 2021, was published in the Official Journal on 24 March, i.e. the day before the legislative decree No. 27 of 2 February 2021 entered into force and just in time to remedy the repeal of the offences referred to in Law No. 283 of 1962, provided for by Article 18 of the previous legislative decree, i.e. of 2 February, on a very important matter relating to the control of food safety. Legislative Decree No. 27 of 2021 (i.e. the first) had to provide for the adaptation of national legislation to the provisions of Regulation No. 625 of 2017, pursuant to Article 12 (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e) of Law No. 2017 of 4 October 2019, better identified as European delegation law, which laid down specific principles and guiding criteria for adaptation with one or more legislative decrees of national legislation on official control of food and drink. It should therefore be consistent with the above-mentioned European Regulation. However, with probable and almost certain procedural vice of excess of delegation, detectable after promotion of incident of constitutionality incidental in reference to Article 76 of the Constitution, because of the non-respect of the principles and the specific guiding criteria given by the Parliament, Article 18, paragraph 1, letters b) and c) of Legislative Decree No. 27 of 2021 went to repeal the law n. 283 of 1962 and all subsequent amendments, therefore was substantially a free all. This happened, even a little in disorder, within the Second Count Government, with the then Minister of Justice Bonafede and with the Minister of Health Hope. In the meantime the new Government was set up which, urged on the subject also and above all by the doctrine (we can see the report of the maximum of Cassazione n. 13 of 17 March 2021) which showed an excess of delegation (so we ascertain the excess of delegation), ran to repair with decree-law n. 42 of 22 March 2021, now on the agenda, which strangely did not repeal the provisions repealing the food law contained in legislative decree n. 27 of 2021, but preferred to maintain the repeal and recovered Articles 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 17, 18, 19 and 22, as well as those related to the law of amendment n. 441 of 1963 and its implementing regulations, thus saving, at least in corner football, the illicit with relative sanctions. However, there are still some questions, as some of my previous colleagues have said. For example, where do the provisions in Legislative Decree No. 27 come from? They were not included in the draft decree-law issued by the Government on 20 October 2020, issued by the Executive to the Parliamentary Commissions for the prescribed opinions. It is therefore a question of who really tried to repeal the preventive provisions to protect the health of citizens in such an important area as food safety. Above all, however, it is important to have sound and adequate political control over what is proposed under the scheme of non-existent technical requirements in order to make content sometimes even dangerous for citizens. In this regard, I also put a question to Minister Patuanelli, who succeeded Minister Bellanova; then I withdrew it because the presentation of the decree-law in question represented the overcoming of the issue. In the 9th Commission, of which I am a member, there was an important debate with the rapporteur, Mr Taricco, who I urged to include in the opinion at least the orientation of the European Union regulation, which was to pursue an intentional policy of decriminalisation of food infringement, with its simultaneous transformation into an administrative offence. In this opinion, which was then unanimously adopted by the Commission, it was also included that, in addition to recovering the repeal of certain rules contained in the 1962 law, we could do something more, but we reserve the right to do so to the next useful measure. I conclude by supporting Federconsumers' request of 22 March: in order to prevent such incidents happening in the future, the Government is asked - and I invest in this institutional request - to set up as soon as possible a table on food safety that sees as protagonists consumer associations. Protecting food and, above all, those from our country, also means protecting Made in Italy. Already the measure deserves a vote in favour because it is going to remedy a dangerous gap that had arisen, but if we want to work more and better, we must implement that political orientation that the European regulation is urging us to do. I would like to thank the Agriculture Commission of which I am a member, because it is a Commission where we work unanimously and in the exclusive interest of the sector. However, those questions remain open and we will go to check on them at some point. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u49	Senator Modena is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u50	Mr President, I have listened carefully to the speeches made by the rapporteur and my fellow Members, and I believe that one aspect must be stressed first of all, namely that public health, with regard to food safety, is clearly considered to be a public good. To the mess that has been created with the legislative decree intervened through article 18, decriminalizing in fact a series of illicits, it has however remedyed with prompt immediacy the government currently in office. [[Applause]] I would like to say this because, beyond what can be the chorus of the case, seen and considering that we are still together, at least we should understand what good you can do. This measure was a good thing done by President Draghi and the Minister of Justice Cartabia, among other things at a time like March, when there were many cats to peel, certainly more than now, because the government had just installed itself. In essence, a whole range of controls and sanctions that are important for public health were eliminated, and therefore beyond the consumer concept. I am referring, for example, to sanctions for the sale of foods deprived of nutrients, or in poor state of preservation, or with microbes of various kinds as chemical additives, or for the sale of foods soiled with parasites, altered and toxic. The possibility of closing the factories had also been removed and it was no longer considered illegal, for example, the omission of certain important indications to understand also the origin, as Senator Rizzotti rightly recalled in her intervention, therefore to the great detriment of the defence of Made in Italy. The House has introduced two articles of common sense, with reference to the need to check the analysis of samples. As I told you, where the mess comes from can be of interest or not, but the fundamental point is that a decree-law has been presented, therefore with the utmost urgency, in order to prevent this traceability chain, which is very important for prevention, from failing. I believe that this must be taken into account, seen and given that this was an action taken immediately and immediately, the House of Deputies then approved the same measure. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u51	Senator Rufa is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u52	Mr President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, I am devoting these minutes not only to yet another regulation to be applied, but to the Italian producers who must exercise it, to them who must always respect what is required by Italian and above all European politics. In communicating this appropriate legislative change, I would point out that for food and feed business operators, Article 1-a re-introduces the guarantees for sample analysis and returns to applying the rules that allow operators to participate with an expert in carrying out the test of analyses. Article 1-b finally introduces the Food Safety Directive, which allows food business operators to remedy infringements due to simple errors or formal omissions. Article 3 requires the publication of features, modalities and results in a multi-annual national control plan to assess the effectiveness and efficiency of public administration as well. Articles 7 and 8 give indications for the application of the institute of counter-expertise and documentary and analytical dispute. In our country, these are not all new, but they replace the repetition of the different parameter, microbiological tests and the analysis of revision and chemical analysis. All this in favour of the consumer. The decree-law under consideration, by re-introduction of criminal and administrative sanctions against producers and processors, puts food safety and consumer health protection at the centre and, in order to be sufficiently determining and deterrent, the financial penalties will be higher than the undue advantage deriving from fraudulent and misleading practices. To frame food offences in the criminal sphere is a very important Italian choice, respectful for the consumer. I therefore think it necessary to remember that Italy is the most beautiful country in the world also and especially for our food, the fruit of our land, our climate and our passion. We therefore have a duty to respect the sacrifices of Italian families that every day cultivate with love, care and effort the products we bring to the table. We have a duty to respect the traditions that the whole world envys us; it envyes us so much that we want to downgrade, destroy, steal or copy them. We have a duty to respect all the taxes that producers pay to make Italy grow. Today, Europe imposes a regulation on repeals, introduced by Legislative Decree No. 27 of 2021, which has the right purpose to avoid that important sectors of the production and sale of food and drinks remain without a correct and necessary sanctioning and administrative protection with prejudice, as said, to the health of consumers, which all too often claims that very conditioning regulations are respected, qualitatively and quantitatively, calling into question the history and seriousness of the Italian product. [[Applause]] There is also the pomp of some powerful bureaucrat, ignorant or servile, who claims correct some ridiculous choices, as in the case of the nutri-score that some blasphemy Italian technician, who strangely passes from primary roles in health to those in agriculture, perhaps envying those who pass from the economy to the World Health Organization, a technician who wants to regulate the nutri-score for scientific evidence. He doesn't really understand a "cavolo" - it's just right to say it in this case - or he doesn't even remember with what food he and his parents grew up with, or he raises his children with dried moths, undefined pre-fried foods and sodas. In Italy we have something else, such as the producers of lard from Colonnata, which Europe has long wanted to question. In Europe, however, they are certainly not lucky enough to have the Carrara valley of Colonnata and did not have the intuition to lay the lard in marble basins rubbed with garlic and enriched with spices and then covered for six months or two years with a lid always of marble. However, Europe itself, which first tried to ban the product, declaring the antigenic method, now states that the high calorie content, which was gasoline for the workers of the quarries, should be a problem precisely for the French table of the nourishing score. It is one of the many poor foods that becomes excellence: this is what Europe and the world envy us, but I don't think we should always listen to the European bureaucrats, who then recommend having breakfast with a cup of peas milk and cookies with worm flour. I do not think that we should listen to Europe accepting a steak without meat or a vegetable tuna and that, after asking us for the length of bananas, the curvature of cucumbers or the length of clams, today we are even asking for watered wine. [[Applause]] But they really watered their heads and refreshed themselves well, because this is certainly not the green turn, as is not the nourishing-score, if it qualifies some food craps as "A" food, while the Mediterranean diet would be a problem. When Europe asks the Italians to betray Italy, it must make up for the fact that this will never happen. There will certainly be some scientific member who succumbs to European mechanisms and multinationals, but certainly not our farmers, who will never allow their children to change their diet. Instead of inventing nonsense, it is essential that rules are imposed in order not to circumvent the correct production, as in the case of Chinese tomato with triple concentration, which becomes Italian because - it is - watered in Italy. It is even more necessary for Europe to help us fight Italian sounding. Europe itself must ensure that food treated under appropriate hygienic conditions, under inhuman working conditions or obtained from the exploitation of men, women and children or animals not controlled and raised irregularly does not arrive on the table. Europe must be compact in order to ensure that food has a safe supply chain, guaranteed by the use of preservatives and herbicides, by the use of fertilizers and polluting water and from land where it is produced to factories. I wonder, in fact, if outside Italy, where there are over 900,000 interventions every year, between inspections and food controls, there are the same technical and bureaucratic controls, if there are the same conditions as large distributors, if there is the same logistics and distribution, if there are the same wage and trade union conditions and the same taxation. It is desirable to standardise food obligations throughout Europe and to hope that there are no lies, as when France, by adopting a law on food waste, communicated that Italy was the taillight. Well, Italy is the first country in Europe, no more lies. The food that is produced and consumed in Italy is also the most controlled, as well as the best in Europe and the world. 18.29 (Follow RUFA). It is also desirable to be loyal, as when France itself boasted of being the first nation to prescribe the origin of meat in restaurants, without remembering that among its major irregularities and frauds - data are from 2018 - there is the presentation of foreign meat as its own. No European nation or country in the world is therefore allowed to teach us, especially to dictate conditions. If the nutri-score of France is the model to be considered in Europe in order to favor the choice of the foods of series A, thanks to the balanced nutritional profiles, for Italy it is simply a dishonorable mess of assessment. The reality is that Italian food is unbeatable and only with the lie you want to break it down. In any case, we will always share and structure regulations that make a food healthy, but we demand respect for culture, traditions and the supply chain of all Italian food. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u53	The Senator Naturale is enrolled to speak, who will also present the agenda for the G1 session during her speech. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to make the necessary changes to ensure that food safety is protected in all legal aspects. During the presentation at the Permanent Conference for the relations between the State, the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces of the draft legislative decree that transposed the provisions of the European Regulation 15 March 2017, n. 625 of application of the safety rules for the food chain, a text has been revealed not in conformity with that presented to the Chambers, which included the repeal of a series of prohibitions in the process of processing, conservation and marketing of food products and the related criminal penalties for the offenders. Obviously, therefore, in the name of that food security that we often boast of as countries in the first place on this issue, everything had to be quickly restored. Fortunately, the democratic system works both in the examination of legislative proposals and in decision-making, and the procedure is transparent and put to the judgment of all. In fact, after the publication in the Official Journal on 11 March last, there was a raise of shields about the imminent danger of decriminalization of all those prohibitions present in the articles of the repealed law 30 April 1962, n. 283, on the discipline of the production and sale of food substances. It is not the intention of this majority to loosen the strict measures on food security and the fight against counterfeiting. This orientation is made explicit in the directives, issued at the time of delegation to the Government, which safeguard the criminal rules in force. With the decree-law that we are about to convert today, the Government has corrected that confusion the day before the measure came into force and reaffirmed the centrality of parliamentary activity. Moreover, the above-mentioned European Regulation makes it clear that certain infringements should be punished at national level in an effective, dissuasive and proportionate manner in order to protect human health. This concept is reiterated in Article 139 of the same Regulation. In the changes made by the Chamber of Deputies to this decree, the line of severity introduced by applying the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure in cases of control by taking samples and contesting the results of the check is reiterated. There is, therefore, an intervention on the discipline of counter-peritia and controversy. The institute of the distrust to the administrative illicits in the matter of food is extended and the times for the fulfilment of the prescriptions are shortened. In short, given the clamour that the jam caused by the legislative decree, which has been amended here, has aroused public opinion, especially at a time of our lives so upset by the current pandemic, once again the health of citizens demonstrates that it is closely linked to the quality of food and to the clarity of the information on it. For the Movimento 5 Stars, transparency of labels for proper product control is a top priority. Hence my determination to present an agenda for this House on a product - honey - which is very much in crisis because of practices which are currently circumventing controls. This is a fundamental issue because through effective controls the credibility of the rules and their correct application pass, in this case the certainty of food quality passes. We keep our attention in the field of agro-food to continue to enhance our products in the international arena, so that Made in Italy maintains that added value recognized by everyone in the world. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u55	The general debate is closed. The rapporteur and the representative of the Government do not intend to intervene in the reply. I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am distributing it - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration, which will be published in the annex to today's report. We shall now proceed to the debate on the G1.1 agenda, which has already been discussed during the general debate, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u56	Mr President, I am in favour of the G1.1 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u57	Mr President, the Government accepts the agenda G1.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u58	Having been accepted by the Government, the G1.1 agenda will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u59	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u61	CUCCA (IV-PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall try to be brief and, if necessary, ask the Presidency to give the text of my speech immediately, because I see that there is a bit of a stir. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It's already cleared, Senator Cucca. CUCCA (IV-PSI). The only thing I would like to say is that, once again, we are developing the parliamentary system, because this measure has also arrived in the Commission tonight, we have hesitated and we are discussing it now in this House, perhaps in a rather hasty manner. The subject is certainly sensitive, also because it is a matter of remedying some oversight that has occurred in very near times, but it is extremely important, because in fact it deals with harmonisation and official controls in the entire agri-food chain. Perhaps it would be necessary for us to reflect on the fact that the measures should assimilate them, know them and deepen them more, compare ourselves and possibly also make the necessary changes compared to what has already happened in the other House. This is a wish, but I understand the difficulty we are experiencing at the present time, with the problem of the Covid, and I understand that we are in an emergency situation; however, since we are resuming the normal rhythms and are moving towards a period of normality (I hope), I hope that these measures can follow the ordinary process as well. Therefore, I turn over the text of my speech and announce the vote in favour of Italia Viva on the draft law under consideration. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u62	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u64	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as we have seen in the course of the debate, we are discussing a legislative decree, No 27, 2021, which essentially repealed a number of provisions in Article 18 with effect from its entry into force, i.e. from 26 March. This legislative decree (i.e. an act of the Government) has affected the list of an impressive series of rules that sanctioned, as criminal or administrative offences, the violation of rules dictated to ensure the health and genuineness of food substances and beverages. In essence, this legislative decree has canceled the criminal protection in Italy in the matter of food safety and, what is more serious, it has done so with an excess of delegation, because, as the Court of Cassation has pointed out, office of the maximum, in its report of 17 March, has gone beyond what had been given him by the corresponding law. With respect to that delegation, in fact, the legislative decree could only intervene in order to adapt and align the national provisions in force to those of the Regulation of the European Union n. 625 of 2017, to which it had to conform. In essence, it is a resounding slide of the previous Government, of which were part all the parties that today are also part of this majority, in addition to the League and Forza Italia. However, no one has come to this House to explain the reason for this very serious force. Colleagues, it's hard to believe that it was just a failure or an oversight. It was something much more serious. To delete tout court all the criminal rules that protect the health of our food in Italy cannot be only the result of an oversight. [[Applause]] It is certainly the result of a drawing, which comes from afar, from Europe, and which starts from the nourishing-score, to get to the watered wine, to the Chinese honey and tomato, to the Canadian wheat to the chicory, to mortify the Italian agri-food heritage, which is an excellence and which envys us and copies us all over the world. [[Applause]] It's a sin to think wrong, but it's often taken. Dear representative of the Government, there would have been a need for a clear word about what happened and, instead, we have seen only a deafening silence. Fortunately, this decree-law intervenes, which restores all cases sanctioned criminally in Articles 5, 6, 12, 12, 12-a and 18 of Law 283 of 1962, together with sanctions and administrative offences to protect consumers. However, since we have not had clear explanations as to why we are here today to eliminate this incredible error of the previous Government and since no one has thought to explain this serious fact, the Brothers of Italy Group declares the abstention vote on the draft law of conversion. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u65	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u67	TARICCO (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, the conversion of Decree-Law No 42, which we are called upon to complete today, makes it clear and, to some extent, also gives answers to the questions raised by my colleague on the objectives for which, in terms of the quality of our country's food products, we have worked in recent years. The quality of the products, the safety, the health, the will to give the citizen-consumer all the elements to judge and choose with knowledge of the cause and the transparency on the origin, the contents and the productive processes have always been at the center of the action that our country and our agri-food world have placed in the field for what concerns the food, the drinks and all the productions destined to the man and the animals. I say this because in recent months, when Legislative Decree No. 27 of 2021 came into force, there was a rise of shields from all over the world that deals with agri-food quality. He cried out, as was done here, to misunderstandings and to dirty play, to a rule that in fact disavowed the policy on which we have been working over the years and about which I have spoken before. What happened? Legislative Decree no. 27, which transposed the EU Regulation n. 625 of 2017 in Italy and which aimed to simplify the rules, to create unity from a multiplicity of regulatory sources, to lay the foundations for a true deterrent, distinguishing between criminal offences and offences sanctioned administratively, as well as to strengthen the principle of proportionality and clarity, in the text that the Government had sent to the Chambers and the Commissions competent for the opinion, Article 13 provided for some (very few) repeals and in the opinion expressed by the competent Committees of Chamber and Senate have not been raised in this regard. It happened that on the same measure, in the State-Regions Conference, it was called for the integration of a whole series of further repeals as a condition for the understanding. Probably underestimating the scope of those same repeals, that text was made precisely by the Government when issuing the final legislative decree. It is clear that the vacuum created was a huge problem, because the repealed rules prohibited or sanctioned the sale or administration of foods or beverages deprived of nutrients or mixed with foods of lower quality. Without that ban, it was possible to do so. Those rules provided for a ban on the marketing of products which were in a poor state of preservation, had microbial charges exceeding the limits, were soiled or invaded by parasites or contained residues of products permitted for agriculture, but toxic and prohibited on food. All of this (with the related sanctions) was likely to be cancelled. I repeat - and I think I can say it without the subject of denial - that in the State-Regions Conference this was requested as a condition for the understanding of the Regions: it was certainly an oversight, an error to which the Ministry has rightly corrected with the decree-law today to our attention. In the process of conversion to the Chamber were inserted some norms relative to the topic of counterperices for the sampling and some redefinings of the institute of the warning, extending it from the agri-food matter (for which it was possible to use it before) also to the administrative illicits in the matter of food safety, and reducing from ninety to thirty days the time granted to the enterprises that run into this type of problem in order to get in order. Above all, in the event that they have failed to comply within the 30 days, the original sanctions return alive without the reductions provided for in the norm in case of compliance within the 60 days. I believe that this is not only a due act, but a good measure, which introduces good rules and makes them relive some of which, in the state of the art, we absolutely need. In the Chamber a measure is being implemented that rewrites the whole picture of the so-called agro-reactors. I think it's a good thing, because the rules are dated anyway: we're talking about 1962, so the world has changed a bit. I repeat that it is a sort of act due: surely, to the health of Italians and to those who believe in the quality of our productions; to the transparency that Italian citizens have become accustomed to demanding from all the food productions that arrive on their tables; to the legality, because, when there are misunderstanding behaviors, behind there is always the risk of pockets of heavy lawlessness; to the reputation of this country, which, in terms of the actual quality of food production, beverages and food and credibility gained on the field, is, without a shadow of doubt, if not the first, among the very first countries in the world. This reputation is the result of decades of work. In this sense, it is worth the famous saying that reputation is that good that is built over decades and destroyed in moments. This measure, which we actually approve today, entering into force before that unfortunate rule which was passed by mistake and which would enter into force on 26 May, allows us to maintain the high level of quality that the world expects of our products. That is why the Democratic Party will vote in favour of it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u68	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u70	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU-Eco). Mr President, the decree-law before us corrects a serious mistake that has been made and I think it is a due act. It has made clear what is due to this mistake. I would like to remind you that in the draft legislative decree that was issued by the Government on 20 October 2020, sent to the Parliamentary Commissions and the State-Regions Conference, there was absolutely no trace - nor could there be - of the repeal of a series of articles of Law 283 of 1962, the so-called food law. In addition, the parliamentary committees, in expressing their opinion, have never mentioned this request. It could only be so, precisely because of the work of both the Committee on Agriculture and the other committees which sent their opinion, they have done in recent years to defend our agriculture and food security. When does this request appear? I also address Senator Balboni: unfortunately, I have to say that this is happening on 26 November 2020; the request comes from the Interregional Coordination of the State-Regions Conference and comes as a conditional opinion. Of course, we all want to hope - and I say this here - that this request for repeal and conditional opinion has been made perhaps because they did not understand well what the measure was part of or its scope. I want to be optimistic and hope. Some may think that there was some other interest, but it is not that of Italian agriculture, nor of consumers and citizens. [[Applause]] The consumer and agricultural associations immediately intervened and this is an important factor, because they have come together to defend the first level of criminal protection and therefore food security. Then of course there are other crimes; of course, it is an old law, dating back to 1962, but that is the important thing today. This is a due act, therefore, but there must also be a commitment at this point. I am again formally asking that a table be set up for food safety, with consumer associations and the agricultural world, because it is in the interests of our agriculture, the agri-food world and the citizens. In Parliament, not only in this parliamentary term, but also at other times, we have fought, very often in a very cross-cutting way, to defend our products and the identity of our many agricultures, their link with the territory and goodness and food security. This was one of the key elements, which concerns the battle on labelling and the initiatives that we often have to do, including at European level, precisely to defend food safety and, above all, the high quality of our food. Look at the fact that it had been repealed not something small, as someone tried to say, claiming that it was basically the repeal of rules even a little out of date. In fact, we are talking about issues such as the placing on the market and the sale of foodstuffs deprived of their nutrients or mixed with substances of lower quality, and therefore of counterfeiting, or in poor state of preservation or with microbial charges. It is therefore a series of very serious offences for the health of the citizens themselves. In addition to the table on food security, however, we must make it clear that we have been waiting for years for a reform of agri-food crimes, remembering that the last legislature was set up, at the Ministry of Justice, together with the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, the so-called Caselli Commission, which had to review them all and which did an excellent job. We are very late and just recently, in the Chamber of Deputies, the process has begun to finally put the hands of agri-food crimes, which are important, from the point of view of the citizens, for the safety of the food of all of us, for our economy and for Italian agriculture. In fact, it is necessary to put the legislation back in place and therefore to strike counterfeits and crimes that have a huge weight, even from the health point of view. Today there are important traffics, also at international level, and the globalized world produces a number of issues that have a heavy impact from the point of view of crime. That work must therefore be completed, but let me say that it is important that we all acknowledge that this error has been quickly remedied, so that the decree-law entered into force the day before all the infringements were dropped and the repeal of those rules came into force. I therefore think that in this way a serious mistake, which I mentioned on a specific date, is quickly corrected by the Interregional Coordination, but I would like to hope that only confusion has been made. I would also add that it would have fallen anyway, but we must do this important act. I would like to remind you that, in the meantime, even the Court of Cassation has intervened, to say that in Article 18 of Legislative Decree No 27 of 2001, which repealed all these offences, there was an excess of delegation, because, as I have shown, that regulation had nothing to do with this, Parliament had not conferred that delegation, nor had the parliamentary committees given that input. I therefore hope that the interregional coordination, which has been the protagonist of that conditional opinion, has realized what serious damage it would have done to the citizens and agriculture of the regions. For these reasons, I announce the vote in favour of the member of the Mixed Free and Equal-Ecosolidal Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u71	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u73	CALIGIURI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the decree-law that we are debating today regulates a fundamental subject for the proper functioning of the food chain, namely food safety, that is, the sanitary need to consume healthy products on our tables, and this is a broad issue, on which we must keep our attention. It is therefore not wrong to say that Decree-Law No 42 of 2021 aims to protect compliance with important rules laid down for the welfare of the community. Last March, when the legislative decree for the adaptation of national legislation was adopted, I was alarmed: how could it have been possible in a short time to make a clean slate of decades of legislation, which over the years has proved effective and deterrent against food fraud, guaranteeing us safety and health, without thinking of an alternative and equally effective measure? In fact, a few days later, the approval of the decree-law in question today was followed, which precisely avoids the repeal of these important provisions of a sanctioning nature. This is why the subject under discussion today is important: in a country with a "made in" known all over the world and with the largest number of products with a quality label (PDO, DOC, IGP, IGT and STG) it is essential to have a harmonised framework of official controls throughout the agri-food chain. I mention just a few numbers: the data from the analysis carried out by the European Food Safety Agency show that food from outside the European Union contains pesticides of 5.6%, compared to 1.3% of EU origin, compared to 0.9% of those produced in Italy. This means that the Italian beverage food industry, which - let us remember - is the second national sector and that between the domestic and foreign markets produces a volume of consumption that is worth 225 billion per year, has made food safety a flagship, putting it completely within the production chain as an indispensable condition. This is confirmed by the figures: the agri-food sector, which is worth 15% of our GDP, invests EUR 3 billion a year (about 2% of its turnover) in product safety and quality, in research and development investments, and EUR 1 billion in self-control analyses with 85,000 employees engaged every day in safety and quality analysis and control activities. Our security in this area is further protected thanks to the work carried out daily by the Department of the Central Inspection of Quality Protection and Counterfeit Control (Icqrf). Among the many activities of the Ministry's supervisory body for agricultural and forestry policies, the important role in combating unfair practices is an important contribution to the protection of the agro-food sector. We can therefore state very clearly that Italy has made food security part of the productive, historical and cultural reality that is distinguished all over the world. On the subject of controls, although many progress has been made over the years to better harmonise the system, I believe that further efforts should be made towards full centralisation, creating a single register of controls, thus making the work done by operators more efficient and avoiding organisational redundancy. For this reason, definitively avoiding today the repealing effect of the sanctioning provisions on agri-food matters, I ask, however, to renew the commitment to the protection of consumers and, above all, the agro-food sector in combating any kind of attack aimed at harming the interests of Made in Italy. I am thinking of the counterfeiting of trademarks, the false indication of made in, the ambiguous forms of labelling. I quote a few numbers: in the period 2008-2018, 542 million pieces were seized, for a total value of more than 5.5 billion euros. To protect the made in means also to push more and more on systems of traceability of the entire supply chain, for two orders of reasons: the first is linked to the safety of consumption, that is to give the consumer awareness of what is buying; the second is the following: to tie even more the product to his own territory, its history and culture. Finally, I would once again ask that we oppose the possibility of applying nut-scores in Europe, which we have repeatedly opposed as the Forza Italia Group: traffic light labelling would put Italian production at risk, creating false alarmism for the consumer with regard to products typical of the Mediterranean diet, recognised as an intangible heritage of humanity, and imitated - with little success, in fact - throughout the world. Our mission must be to protect the virtuous operators who daily make food made in Italy great in Italy in Italy and in the world, avoiding that the consumer can be influenced by externalities that simply aim to take out a competitor, Italy, that for years preserves the primacy in the sector. I conclude by saying that through this decree-law the Italian agri-food system is allowed to retain the apical role in the world for the adopted food safety standards. I therefore announce the vote in favour of Forza Italia. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u74	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u76	Crazy people (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Senate Act 2201 concerns the conversion of Decree-Law No 42 of 2021, which regulates food safety. The title should already make it clear that this is a very important issue for the Italian food industry, because food security is a subject that we have heard a lot about, but in other countries it is clearly not. I do not think it is necessary to be patriotic to consider Italy one of the countries where you eat best in the world and where you produce some of the best products, of absolute superior quality in the food sector. This happens both because the basic product is of very high quality, and because our craftsmen, in my opinion, deserve the title of masters for the ability to work the raw materials, but also because the products are checked. This, in my opinion, introduces a fundamental element in the supply chain, which is often not considered at all in other countries. I also have a personal experience in this regard. I remember that, as mayor, I found myself with a farmer who had two heads infected with infectious equine anaemia, so I issued a restraining measure, which taught me something very important: that in words they are all in favor of food safety and everyone would want it to be an indispensable element in the production of our typical products; but then, in fact, not all are willing to behave consistently with this enunciation. [[Applause]] I remember, always speaking from direct experience, that the breeder, instead of adapting to my provision, tried to rebel in any way and even came to call... the hyenas. You can imagine how many hundreds of emails I received in the municipality after the service of the "Iene". I answered everyone with three very simple lines: but for your table or for that of your children would you prefer that a controlled or uncontrolled steak should come? This silenced 95 percent of the protests. It remained a residual 5 percent of people who replied that they did not eat meat and that therefore they were not interested in these controls, but popular wisdom indicates such behavior with the saying that it is easy to slap with the faces of others (in fact, the popular one is slightly different and this is the sweetened version, to respect the decorum and dignity of the Assembly, but I believe that we have very clearly understood the concept). It is essential to respect national regulations, which are probably the most advanced in the world, in terms of control. This affects, yes, the final price of the product; in this regard I could remind you that Europe (that Europe that makes us discuss whether to eat insects or water the wine) allows at the same time the import of honey produced in China, which has a production cost of 1.24 euros, when in fact I believe that in Italy a similar product could not be produced even by spending the triple; it is the same Europe that would forbid our elderly to produce directly for the self-consumption in the gardens and that however it allows the import of products that in their supply chain do not have any kind of control relative not only to their quality, but also to their safety. I am referring to microbial charge and products which, in terms of sanitary conditions, do not even have the minimum requirements to be placed in the food and sales circle. I am referring to all those checks that we take for granted, because they are implicit in our system, but which are not taken for granted and which unfortunately risk not only affecting a sector that is already heavily damaged, for all food counterfeiting and for fake made in Italy, but also directly penalising our producers, who, of course, tend to adapt to these prerogatives. As I said before, I want to stress what is regulated directly in the measure and, in order to avoid forgetting something, I read in the words of Article 1 of the Decree-Law, which in fact prevents the repeal of the sanctioning apparatus with regard to hygiene and food substances. In this respect, it is worthy of maintenance that Law 283 of 1962 expressly prohibits the use, sale or administration of food and drink substances which have been deprived even in part of their nutrients or mixed with substances of inferior or otherwise treated quality, or in poor state of preservation, or with microbial charges exceeding the limit established, or with the addition of unauthorised additives. In essence, it is the essence of our products that risked being threatened - precisely - by the repeal of a text that, in my opinion, should be the basis of every production of world quality, but that in fact is not found in other countries of the world, ensuring that our tables were reached by products of extremely inferior quality to that to which we are accustomed. Moreover, our producers could be faced with unfair competition such as that which clearly represents those who manage to achieve the final product without any of the conditions to which we are subject, obviously going to create damage to our economy. Therefore, I think it is right that Article 6 should remain the provision of criminal relevance to these cases, because we know that the administrative penalty already in itself would not be a sufficient deterrent, and in many cases it would also be difficult to apply. Therefore, the criminal importance for those who threaten the food safety of our tables, in my opinion, is an objective that must be pursued and is the reason why, anticipating also our explanation of vote, preannouncement that the Lega-Salvini Group Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione is in favour of the conversion of the decree-law in question. In my opinion, although none of my colleagues have mentioned it, Article 12 of Law 283 of 1962, which prohibits the introduction into the territory of the Republic of food substances which do not meet the requirements, is equally fundamental. In fact, it is not only necessary to sanction those who possibly introduce these foods from us, not responding to those fundamental characteristics, but also to avoid the introduction of these products, because only this guarantees our production and agri-food system. [[Applause]] I have seen that all my colleagues have been faster in their speeches; I had other ideas, but I leave them to future reflections. Having anticipated the Group's vote in favour, I would like to conclude with an aspect that perhaps someone might consider secondary, but that, in my opinion, is fundamental: the protection of Made in Italy, our production system, our craftsmanship and our breeding could be just as fundamental as the recovery plan, which we indicate at this moment as the only possible way out of the crisis, but which, in my opinion, could have an equally valid alternative, enhancing what we have always taken for granted, but which is obviously not taken for granted. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u77	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u79	LEONE (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are going to vote on a measure examined at first reading in the House and second reading in the Senate, which contains urgent measures on the sanctioning rules on food and is aimed at restricting the scope of operation of the discipline referred to in Article 18 of Legislative Decree No 27 of 2021, namely the repeal of infringements and illegal administrative principles. The measure safeguards the made in Italy and is important because we are faced with a real nutritional transition so that, thanks to increasingly sophisticated chemical means, we can diagnose quite soon and carefully diseases related to the type of food that affects our health. Fortunately, the European Union has provided itself over time with appropriate regulations for the production and marketing of agri-food and animal products. In fact, already at the end of the 1990s in Europe there was a widespread awareness of food risks and possible chemical, biological and physical contamination. In those years, food fraud, such as adulteration and sophistication, made a scandal, so the first years of the year 2000 were characterized by intense legislative activity on the hygiene of products and food of animal origin, on the official controls of animals intended for human consumption and on the conditions of health of the animals themselves. Finally, in 2002, the European Food Safety Authority was established, which carries out its work well. All this, however, today risks being thwarted by market logics that introduce food of plant and animal origin from countries outside Europe that do not have the same protection regulations. I do not want to talk about products from African countries or Asian countries, but I am only talking about American products. Suffice it to say that, in the area of foodstuffs, the European Union has the precautionary principle, while in the United States there is no precautionary principle: a food is safe until proven otherwise. Unfortunately, however, some chemicals present in the products give their effect over time, just think of the presence of glyphosates in wheat, which invade our markets and which mix in our wheat of better quality and undisputed health. In this scenario, the pathologies that occur over time and that some studies are still testing should also be added. I am referring, for example, to cases of celiac disease related to the use of glyphosates. After this due reporting on food safety, we define the purpose of the measure under consideration, namely to prevent significant sectors relating to the production and sale of food and drink from being deprived of criminal and administrative sanctions, to the detriment of consumers' health. Already in the Chamber have been inserted two aspects related to counter-peritia and controversy in a provision that however aims to limit the scope of operation of the discipline referred to in Article 18 of the legislative decree of 2 February 2021, n. 27. With regard to the powers of the Committee on Agriculture, of which I am honoured to be a member, even more as a Sicilian and as a woman in the South, Article 1, which deals with the aforementioned Article 18, which affects the list of repeals in order to limit their scope and in particular to prevent the repeals of the sanctioning system in accordance with the rules on the hygiene of foodstuffs and beverages. Article 18, in fact, provides for the repeal of the entire Law n. 283 of 30 April 1962, therefore a law of sixty years ago, obsolete, so it is necessary a key of interpretation lowered in the contemporary, without prejudice to only some specific provisions. The criminal penalties for infringements and the illegal administrative principles relating to the use or administration of food and drink were repealed, but they were nevertheless reintroduced through our work in Parliament. This measure is important precisely because it identifies the appropriate authorities to organise or carry out official controls, including activities in the different areas of food, food safety, integrity and health at all different stages of the production, processing and distribution of food, but also the placing on the market of food substances with coloured packaging that are not authorised anyway. I begin by concluding, Mr President, by retracing both the concept of the nutritional transition of food and the concept of ecological transition, one which is essential from the other, of dimensions - especially the latter - epochs, in which we are all obliged to participate and which represents a unique opportunity to intervene with a holistic approach that can combine health and respect for the environment, an opportunity to improve the lives of citizens, because we care about their well-being. The ultimate objective is food safety for the well-being of the community. Many products, in fact, contain ingredients that are harmful to the health of our citizens, our children, which is our duty to protect. The Movimento 5 Stars welcomes this important measure, because it has always been careful and aware of the damage caused by certain food products, on which it would be necessary, for greater transparency, to introduce a label as full as possible of information on products, but also, in my opinion, accompanied by a logo with regional connotation, which can limit its counterfeiting. I should like to conclude with this wish, in reaffirming the support of the Movimento 5 Star Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u80	He had asked Senator Grenato to speak in dissent from the Group. As he is not present in the Chamber, he is intended to speak again. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill... [[Comments.]] I'm sorry, I'm not here to serve anyone. I call anyone who wants to speak; if one does not get up and speak, I declare the vote open. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, composed of only Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u81	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u83	CORRADO (Mixed). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is no peace for the cultural heritage of the city of Naples, all too often exposed to the risk of dispersion, if not of real destruction. I am referring to real estate, no less than works of historical-artistic interest, and so also to artistic handicrafts. What about the sale of the Palazzo del Monte di Pietà in Spaccanapoli; the cordata led by Michele Amoroso would have reached an agreement with the property, passed for about twenty years from a credit institution under public law, the Banco di Napoli, to one under private law, Intesa Sanpaolo, who while self-celebrating for the galleries of Italy, shows that he did not understand the value of that treasure chest of history and art, identity for all Neapolitans, which is the Monte di Pietà. With the colleagues of L'Alternativa There is in the question presented in April we have assumed that the state and local authorities exercise the pre-emption and the palace, in accordance with its dignity, can accommodate institutions of university education, such as the Southern High School or an archive of the most important. Two weeks ago the Committee on Culture of the Municipality finally struck a blow and we will see what the future will bring. Staying on the subject of historic buildings, on May 3, the news of the principle of fire developed in a warehouse on the fourth floor of Palazzo Reale. Instead, the battle to save the theatrical tailoring of Vincenzo Canzanella, which, evicted from the premises of Sant'Eligio, also thanks to the commitment of Mr Maria Muscarà, will transfer to Bagnoli its operational headquarters. An exhibition of the extraordinary sample of works made in about fifty years of activity must remain in Naples and it is to be hoped that the proposal to allocate it to the premises below the church of San Francesco di Paola will find ears willing to listen. Finally, the 400 works of municipal property kept in the underground warehouse of the Civic Museum of Castel Nuovo, in unhealthy environments, last damaged by the rain of last November. To the intervention of simple safety promoted by the Municipality with a modest sum should shore the forced transfer to a museum arranged by the supervisor thanks to the application of Article 43 of the code of cultural goods. Because of the reforms Franceschini however the superintendence no longer has any relationship with the museums of the territory and their deposits and the superintendent of Naples is a second-hand manager, while the museums depend on the regional direction museums, which runs the general direction museums or even are autonomous institutes, like Capodimonte, headed by general directors. The protection of Italian cultural heritage is therefore made technically impossible by the Ministry itself responsible for carrying out Article 9 of the Constitution, a Ministry committed suicide by its eternal owner and by the courtiers of which it is surrounded, heterodirected both by economic potentates and deviant Freemasonry. I would appeal to the President of the Republic if I had no doubts about the effectiveness of such an appeal.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u84	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u86	Toninelli (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking in this House to urge the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance to come and report to Parliament on the progress of the important, sensitive, Autostrade dossier for Italy. After the great work done, now is the time to bring home the result, removing our highways from the hands of those who failed and bringing them back under public management. [[Applause]] In July 2020 we defined the way to end this dispute, not with the revocation for which he always fought the Movimento 5 Stars and which we could not achieve, not because of us, but because a majority in Parliament was needed that was not given to us, neither with the Government Count I, nor with the Government Count II. For this reason we have accepted, albeit with difficulty, the compromise solution of the takeover of Cassa deposits and loans in the quota of Atlantia SpA, but the news of the last few weeks is not at all comforting: there is a great uncertainty. Above all, we consider the internal decision at Autostrade for Italy (Aspi) to increase the already exorbitant salaries of the highest summits, all - it seems - with the endorsement of the successor consortium, including Cassa depositi e loani. That's not good. The families of the victims deserve justice, the Genoese deserve justice, all Italians deserve justice and safe highways. Only the last mile is missing, with the expulsion of those who, out of craving for money, have left the bridge of Genoa in neglect until it collapses, gentlemen who, moreover, in these months of limbo, have continued to cash a lot of money. Mr Franco should come and report to Parliament as he sees fit. The 5 Star Movement, for its part, has been calling in vain for at least two months for the presence of the Minister on live television in a question time. Patience is abundantly over, and that is why we call for the presidency of the Senate to take an active part in enabling this branch of Parliament, and therefore the whole country, to be kept up to date on this very important dossier. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u87	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u89	ANASTASI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a few weeks ago I met a delegation from the restaurateurs in my area, restaurateurs who, as you can well understand, are exhausted, in a state of serious prostration, not only economic but also psychological. From that meeting, in addition to the obvious need to work immediately, which the Government finally responded to yesterday with a decree that was strongly desired by us, another thing emerged and that is that the restaurateurs cannot remain at the mercy of the individual decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers. We must give the entire sector, which makes several billions a year, the possibility of being resilient, weather-resistant. How do you give this chance? This year we had the Covid-19; there might be a rise next year, there might come some other disease. What are we gonna do? Are we going to close a sector that is already on its knees again and that is likely to regain its proper force in summer? We need to think of something to help him. For example, are there air filtration systems like on airplanes? Let's use them, let's give the restaurateurs a chance to use them through appropriate tax incentives. There are also other conditions that can allow restaurateurs to work, such as being able to be recognized by banking institutions as solvent entrepreneurs: at this time most of them are in fact insolvent and cannot borrow a single penny in the bank. We should extend, for example, the guarantees we provided in last year's liquidity decree and make them more usable and usable by the entrepreneurs themselves. So, Mr President, to the satisfaction of the new provisions of the Dragons Government, let us join the cry of sorrow and the immediate and effective request for a new rethink for the category. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u90	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u92	BRUZZONE (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I rise to express, on behalf of myself and my colleagues, my closeness to Fr Pierino Sacella, parish priest of a community of 600 parishioners in Torre Maina, in the Municipality of Maranello, in the Province of Modena. Don Pierino Sacella, who wears the alpine hat and was chaplain of the Military Academy of Modena and whom I have had the opportunity to know personally, has a grave fault, that is to say, to be a Bergamo who carries on the culture and tradition that have been transmitted to him by his family (from his mother, first of all, and his father): he is a man of nature, a hunter respectful of the environment and laws. [[Applause]] Don Pierino, unfortunately, was the victim of shameful acts of animalist terrorism. The village, of 600 inhabitants, has been covered with offensive posters, posted in church and nativity scene. The Mass of the Immaculate Virgin was hindered by these warriors with abusive slogans and a verbally violent garrison was activated during the Christmas Mass, as if to prevent the faithful from entering the church: if we find you in the country, you will not be protected by the walls of the church. As you understand, the facts are not recent because the Covid would not allow them, but it is very recent that the authors of the interventions belonging to an organized acronym have been sent back to judgment. These aggregations - there is more than one, unfortunately, in this country - are not new in the exploding violent and vandalistic acts that the State must fight with the necessary energies. To the poor Father Pierino Sacella, priest and hunter, to the solidarity that has been transmitted to him by all his parishioners I also add mine and that of all the decent people. And I do it all the more so today, because I want to remember that this morning Enrica Franchini died, forty-eight years old, of Sassuolo, because there was a roe deer too much in the middle of the road. [[Applause]] If anyone thinks of using arrogance and violence to impose disbanded animalist philosophies of our rural cultures is wrong and the parishioners of Torre Maina will then be destined to increase to an extent. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u93	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-05-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-327.ana.u94	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday, May 19, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.34.
