ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 10:33 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Durnwalder, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u4	[[The President and the Assembly stand.]] Senators, I would like to address a moving thought of closeness to the family, colleagues, friends of former Senator Romano Misserville. Man of great intellectual openness, brilliant lawyer and appreciated jurist, Romano Misserville was a passionate politician, respectful of the institutions and always attentive to the demands of the citizens; senator for four legislatures, from 1987 to 2001; Vice President of the Senate in the 12th legislature; authoritative member of the Committees on Constitutional Affairs, Foreign Affairs and Agriculture, as well as of the Parliamentary Anti-Mafia Commission and the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities. During his long parliamentary commitment, Romano Misserville was always distinguished by skills, professional rigour and constant openness to constructive confrontation. Deep ties with the territories of Lazio, with the Province of Frosinone in particular, which Romano Misserville has put at the center of many initiatives promoted by him for economic development and the protection of environmental resources. Its progressive transition from the political forces of the Italian right to those of the centre has never questioned the coherence of ideas and intellectual honesty. With Romano Misserville he left us a politician of race, a gallant man of great charisma and profound humanity; a figure above the lines - I knew him well - irreverent sometimes, protagonist of striking gestures, also in this Chamber, but certainly always animated by the will to never make lack of one's own commitment and ability to work well in the exclusive interest of Italy and Italians. In memory of Senator Romano Misserville, I invite the Assembly to observe a minute's silence. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u7	Ruspandini (FdI). Mr President, the disappearance of Senator Lawyer Romano Misserville - as you recalled - Vice President of the Senate of the 12th legislature, has aroused a unanimous regret and sincere condolence, much greater than the political world of our Province, precisely for the singular personality - you have known him - of the deceased senator. Brilliant lawyer, true prince of the forum, had founded his profession on an in-depth knowledge of criminal law, rooted in a vast humanistic culture of which he showed admirably in the classrooms of the courts throughout Italy. In political activity, too, it soon emerged not only because of its exceptional oratory qualities, but also because of its ability to attract the consensus of vast areas of the electorate not strictly attributable to the Italian right. Re-elected several times in the Senate - as you recalled - for four legislatures, he knew carefully how to establish relationships of esteem and collaboration with colleagues from various political orientations, collecting sympathy and attention from the most disparate groups, with a broad and modern vision of parliamentary activity. We all keep the memory of a truly unusual figure: a politician attentive to the needs of the territory, but at the same time ready to better interpret the demands of a national policy based on the high values of respect for the institutions and true love for the homeland. The unanimous concussion for the disappearance of Senator Misserville, who in this Chamber had made his voice sound in memorable and very applauded speeches, is the best expression of his generous dedication to public affairs, of which we will long retain a memorable and affectionate personal and political memory. Mr President, I am from Ceccano, where Romano Misserville was born, raised and lived. I remember two episodes on all: the first when he was elected for the first time in 1987. Ours was a Christian Democrat feud and, above all, Andreottian: that election was an incredible satisfaction for the right ciociara. The second comes to mind precisely because today we are all forced to wear masks. Misserville was the first senator to introduce in the Senate of the Italian Republic the mask in the sense of protest - that mask that all of us badly endure and must force - to bring to the attention of all the problem of the Sacco Valley, the environmental pollution of our lands. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u10	Mr ASTORRE (PD). Mr President, last Wednesday at the age of 86, the senator emeritus Romano Misserville died at the hospital in Frosinone - as his friend and colleague Mr Ruspandini recalled. Penalist lawyer since 1959 and cassationist since 1978, Misserville has been actively engaged in politics in the right ciociara, founder of the political movement Right of People; he was co-founder and president of the penal chamber, Frosinone section. He was elected Vice-President Vicar of the Senate, as President Alberti Casellati recalled; in 2004 he was awarded the recognition of the golden robe. We remember him for his undisputed professional competence, but also for his human qualities; I also got to know him in the Senate when I attended him for other reasons. He was an elegant person, he had a refined and educated humor and everyone who knew him could appreciate the total dedication to work at the service of the community, his community in particular, and the country, as well as his extraordinary ability to reconcile the role of lawyer and political commitment. In his homily, Don Tommaso Antonetti said of Misserville that he was as noisy in life as he was silent in the last hour. And then he reported the words of his nephew Ludovico who just a few days ago, had pronounced on his grandfather: how much I like the way of life of my grandfather, he knows how to live with joy and lightness, he is a cultured and very nice man; he loves life and horses; words that, according to the pastor, could not make more appropriate description. To the Misserville family, to his wife Mariolina and to his son Filippo I extend my deepest condolences, in the memory of a man who has been a protagonist in the political, social and cultural history in particular of the territory of Frosinone [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u13	Gasparri (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I would like to thank you for the memory you wanted to make to remind Romano Misserville that - as you said - for four legislatures you have been in the Senate and you have also been Vice President of the Senate. I met Romano Misserville during his intense political militancy, always characterized by a great frankness of positions. He began in this House in 1987 wearing a gas mask because he wanted to denounce, at his beginning of parliamentary activity, the pollution that struck some areas of the rustling to which he has always been linked: there he lived and there he carried out with great valence (and I am not in the rustling) his forensic activity, which he has always conducted with great quality and, even up to recent years, facing complex, striking events, which have also dominated the judicial chronicles. Romano Misserville was therefore, on the one hand, a distinguished man of the profession, of the lawyer, of the institutions, of Parliament, also in his qualification as Vice President of the Senate in a legislature; but, on the other hand, he was also a man of battle, a man of the territory, often also protagonist of controversial or controversial events. He participated, always with a spirit of great autonomy, in the transformation of the right, in the birth of the National Alliance, combining a commitment in Parliament and on the major themes of politics with a strong territorial vocation. In the rustling, in Ciociaria was also the protagonist of cultural initiatives, such as the reproduction of ancient historical controversies that saw him engaged in Anagni and elsewhere. Passionate about horses and horseback riding too, he claimed that he frequented the racetracks because it was the only place where they were not donkeys. He was also a man of fiery jokes and great dialectic. He was struck years ago by the premature disappearance of his daughter Fiammetta, who certainly marked his life, because for a father it is always unnatural reason for extreme pain the loss of those who genetically succeed him, of a daughter in this case. We remember him therefore as a great protagonist of the world of politics, as a man of quality, of high professionalism, but who lived the daily life of the territory, of the citizens, of listening, combining profession, politics, territory and Parliament. With this spirit the Forza Italia Group joins its expressions, President, and expresses its closeness to the family of Senator Misserville and to the entire territorial community that has known and appreciated him [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u16	RUFA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, thank you for the kind thought you addressed yesterday to my villager Romano Misserville. It's an honor for me to commemorate Romano Misserville, who left at the age of 86. He was a lawyer at the age of twenty-five and what a lawyer he was! At the age of thirteen he entered the Italian Social Movement and then what a politician he became! He enchanted when he spoke and his way of doing it was linked to a language rich in culture, since he knew both about art and literature. We were very eager to know his thoughts. He helped himself spontaneously - as has already been mentioned - with nice looks and iconic gestures, as when, for example - it has already been mentioned - he entered the Chamber with a mask to denounce pollution in the Valley of Sacco as early as 1987, on the occasion of the inauguration of the first Goria Government. He had convinced gestures and was a free man, so much so that he preferred to give up the post of Undersecretary in the second government of Alema, of which he had considerable esteem, because he did not want to remove a painting of Mussolini from his room. He was very convinced, but never fanatical, always calm and polite. He had an extraordinary memory: he knew the steps of the Divine Comedy and - as one of his colleagues recalled - one day he stopped to talk about all the architects of Palazzo Koch, the Palazzaccio. He spoke short sentences, but full of meaning, like a book. It was typical of his political history and - I repeat - also of his cultural history and especially of his closeness to Almirante, which was obviously his idol. As the previous senator said, his grandchildren remembered him as a man who loved life, nice and fond of horses. I can't help but remember that he loved to say that the racetracks were the only places he loved to hang out because you didn't run the risk of finding donkeys. I greet Philip, his son, who is also a very quiet lawyer, from this Chamber. I am honored to join your wife Mariolina, whom I greet from this House, who was your husband's. Romano Misserville joins Fiammetta. I also allow myself to greet a particular friend of yours, Poirot, his dog, a Belgian shepherd who is still waiting for him. Ceccano and Frosinone lose the senator and even Italy lose a piece of history. Let us honor your memory, Roman, and let the earth be light to you. [[Applause.]] 10:53 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u17	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a preliminary ruling on draft law No 2066. I call Senator Pagano to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling by Mr QP1.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, we are once again faced with the question of the constitutionality of the measures which, through the use of the urgent decree, tend to restrict the constitutionally guaranteed rights, in particular those linked to the individual and personal freedom of each of the Italian citizens. We continue to be firmly opposed to the idea that, through the instrument of the decree-law, we can assume to limit constitutionally guaranteed rights. In particular, Decree-Law No. 2 of 2021, in fact extends until 30 April of this year the period within which the measures aimed at preventing contagion may be adopted or repeated pursuant to the two decrees issued in the same direction during 2020, namely Decree-Law No. 19, which we have firmly contested, and Decree-Law No. 33, which partially reduced the constitutional defects contained in the first, namely No. 19. We continue to be firmly opposed to the idea that Italian citizens can see reduced the possibility to move within their own city, their own Province or their own Region exclusively with a measure of the Government. We believe that this is not possible. Among other things, I would add that the President of the Council of Ministers Giuseppe Conte, in the distant 21 May 2020, had to declare, precisely in this House, that we cannot afford - I repeat his words - to prolong the effectiveness of restrictive measures for an indefinite time. In fact, a liberal and democratic system cannot tolerate a compression of fundamental rights, except to the extent strictly necessary to defend the primary goods of the life and health of citizens, depending on a serious and current threat. The persistence of such strict measures in terms of the limitations of fundamental rights, beyond the time needed to reverse the contagion curve, would therefore be unreasonable and incompatible with the principles of our Constitution. All right, well, he deserves a round of applause, because that's exactly the truth. [[Applause]] We think exactly as the Count himself stated on 21 May 2020. I repeat that it is not conceivable that the emergency measure has such an indefinite measure, because, repeating, in fact, we no longer have any chance of understanding the urgency. That an emergency measure may have a time measure without clear and defined limits is not conceivable (our Constitution does not allow it). In fact, when it comes to urgent decrees, there is only reference to measures which must have limited action over time and limited effectiveness over time. You understand, however, that all this is not happening. [[Applause]] I should like to add on the subject - as other Members, and not just my political movement, have said these days - that the measures to restrict individual freedom - I am referring, for example, to the so-called Christmas decree - have produced no benefit in terms of contagion. We have been able to see that having locked people in their homes has not prevented the contagion from continuing to run. Therefore, even on the substance, it makes no sense to persist with limitations of such a nature. I understand and it is necessary that we move forward with a national vaccination project, with a plan that, as soon as possible, can allow everyone to be vaccinated, but this cannot go on. It's the system that's wrong. I am then a little tired of reporting every time we have to defend Parliament's prerogatives in this House. [[Applause]] We cannot continue to allow ourselves to violate constitutionally guaranteed principles on a regular basis. I'll never get tired of remembering it, and I'm good to do it here. [[Applause]] I shall conclude by quoting something that is not only topical today but also completely changes the cards on the table. Yesterday a non-secondary fact happened, my dear colleague Alfredo Messina. Yesterday - as you know - we saw a vote that does not measure an absolute majority of senators - right? - because we have found that what the Count Government supports is a relative majority in this House. Well, this aspect is not irrelevant to Decree-Law No. 2 of 2021 that we are examining and it is quite simple to assume so. The use of the decree of urgency by a government in office makes sense if there are absolute majorities in the two chambers. [[Applause]] Since yesterday this element no longer exists - in this House the majority is only relative - you understand well that the recourse to the decree of urgency is even more improper, inadequate and unconstitutional. [[Applause]] In cases such as these, laws can no longer be enacted, but the measures must be brought to this House to be parliamentaryized. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u19	One representative per Group will be able to speak during the debate for no more than ten minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u22	Garavini (IV-PSI). Mr President, the Senate is today called upon to convert the last decree-law issued by the Government to deal with the current health crisis. The measure is part of a complex sequence of legislative acts, often difficult to understand by citizens, given their overlap and the continuing contradiction between the different texts designed to deal with the epidemic. The decree-law was issued simultaneously with respect to the umpteenth DPCM, a legal source mostly unknown until a few months ago and has become today the cornerstone of national standardization; a subordinate form, often improperly assumed to the primary rank, for the discipline of such a delicate matter as personal freedom; a method of legislative production on which, like Italy Viva, we have already expressed our doubts several times; doubts which we can summarize in the fact that Parliament was called, most of the times, to convert to law a decree-law that did nothing but re-produce in its turn a subordinate source such as the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers. On this point, first of all, we note a first critical issue: we continue to want to regulate sensitive issues, such as personal freedom, through a source subordinate to what the Constitution otherwise prescribes, as a matter on which the parliamentary legislative reserve should instead be absolute. In addition, such regulatory production, which is confusing in terms of the hierarchy of sources, also has problematic consequences in terms of parliamentary work, relegating Parliament to an ancillary role in relation to decisions taken in other fora. With Decree-Law No 19 of 2020, for example, the President of the Council of Ministers provided for the possibility of managing the complex phase of the health emergency by admitting in fact - through a primary source - that the Head of the Executive could intervene through a secondary source, arriving at the establishment of limitations of personal freedom, for whose discipline there is an absolute reserve of law. On the basis of this postulate of the hierarchy of sources - it is recalled - a subordinate source cannot affect limitations of personal freedom. On the contrary, normative action has been taken on this issue for some time now, through decrees from the President-in-Office of the Council, which are certainly not ascribed to the level of primary source. On this subject, Parliament, as we have already pointed out in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, should take an in-depth look, perhaps in order to envisage a reform of the system, because it raises a question of weight: how can Parliament, in its amendment, modify a subordinate source such as that contained in a DPCM, when the source is not pedessequamente transcribed in the decree-law? On several occasions, amendments seeking to amend the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers have been declared inadmissible because they are amending a source subject to the law. In other words, we are witnessing an unprecedented and dangerous way of producing legislation: first we have a decree issued by the President of the Council of Ministers, which only later finds its place in a decree-law, which, within sixty days, Parliament is called upon to convert. But then the parts outside the decree-law, but contained in the DPCM, remain excluded from the examination, because they are not aligned on the level of the hierarchy of sources. In essence it is a double vulnus to the role of Parliament, more and more spectator compared to the emergency management. For this reason, the Italia Viva Group can only raise serious concerns about this regulatory production method. We therefore call for a reform of the system, with a more central role for Parliament in the management of the emergency and therefore for an abstention vote on behalf of the Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u25	BOLDRINI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the senators, we believe, instead, that the question before our examination starts from profoundly erroneous and presumptuous considerations, where it says that: "the Government must demonstrate that it is able to manage the emergency situation in the country with ordinary instruments and not with special laws, nor with edicts that extrude (...) Parliament". I remember, however, that Minister Hope also came last week, on January 13, to explain to us the whole DPCM. In our opinion, therefore, the Government has always acted and continues to act in accordance with the fundamental principles of the legal order and hierarchy of the sources of law. On the extension of the state of emergency, in fact, the decree-law in conversion is limited, correctly, to adapting the framework of primary sources, which already regulate the measures to deal with the epidemiological emergency, to the specific requirements that have led to this extension. We all know the needs that led to this extension, with the epidemic still underway, not only by us, but also in other countries. I do not necessarily want to use the example of other countries, but it should be remembered that many other countries have resorted to a complete lockdown, which we are trying to avoid as much as possible. Moreover, the Government, through Minister Hope, has previously explained to Parliament the reasons why it has become necessary to extend the state of emergency, in compliance with the provisions of article 2, paragraph 1, of Decree-Law 25 March 2020, n. 19, according to which: "the President of the Council of Ministers or a Minister delegated by him illustrates in advance to the Chambers the content of the measures to be adopted (...), in order to take into account any addresses from the same formulated. I would remind you, therefore, that on that occasion we presented a majority resolution, in which there were indications, which we then saw in the DCCM, including that of promoting the full resumption of the teaching activity in presence (you saw in fact that, slowly, the schools are resuming), and of preparing, in agreement with the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces, an appropriate transport plan (you can see how many meetings are being held, together with the Regions, the State-Regions Conference and the Minister for Regional Affairs and the Autonomous in this matter). However, I would remind the Assembly that many other decrees had already translated them into law and I would also remind you that, as far as the transport plan is concerned, the regions should have already taken measures, buying additional buses and buses or making agreements with private operators and many regions have already done so. So the vulnus isn't strictly government. We must also pay attention, because some of the things that must be done - it must be remembered - are also borne by other bodies. In addition, this resolution has also served to include in the decree-law that we will have to convert an initiative aimed at ensuring the speediest implementation of the strategic plan for vaccines. You have seen how important and compelling the issue of vaccination continues to be. Returning to what is said in the question referred, the extension of the state of emergency sets the deadline of 30 April, given the worrying development of the epidemiological emergency from Covid and in compliance with the provisions of the Civil Protection Code; I remind my colleagues that with regard to civil protection the same code was used at earthquakes, just to be able to continue to extend the state of emergency, if not all the activities necessary to secure people. Similarly, the state of epidemiological emergency has been extended, using Legislative Decree No. 1 of 2 January 2018, confirming that the state of emergency is not a rule: in fact it has been extended until 30 April, not forever, as you argued in the question referred. This is over. Therefore, the primary regulatory framework has been respected and no constitutional censorship can be moved to the government's work. The decree-law is not a special law, nor an edict, as well as the decree-law 14 January 2021, n.2, what we are transforming into law, which finds its legitimacy in a source of primary rank. There is really no reason to lay down unlawful legislation on the measures adopted so far in absolute respect for the role of Parliament. Indeed, Minister Hope has come over and over again to tell us what the epidemiological situation is and what measures they should have taken, obviously always in full harmony with what science says. Some changes have been made, of course they have, but also because the epidemiological evolution has affected so much in this period; no one knew how things would go and of course we have to adjust the shot every time we face an emergency. We do not really see this fact. What is provided for by the Constitution and by the laws is respected in absolute consistency with the constitutional system of sources and the logics of balance between powers underlying it. By the way, ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you that not all our citizens complain. I spoke to so many people who told me that if we have to make another effort, we do it precisely because we want to be freer later, without the virus. No one has ever spoken of harming the right to freedom; citizens look forward to being free from the virus: this is the real challenge we face. So we believe that, considering the emergency, we must continue to apply the highest level of precaution, first and foremost ourselves that we must set an example; not like those who went to dinner in restaurants to join the #ioapro protest. How many conflicting situations we have witnessed, even people who sit in institutions that go against the law: these things must no longer be seen, because citizens really get confused. We must also be very tense about this to make it clear what is being done. Overall, we need to mitigate the risk of an uncontrolled epidemic and the increased pressure on health facilities. I remind you that still now, unfortunately, the numbers weigh on the health facilities; health professionals ask us to be careful, because they can no longer. So, even out of respect for them, we must move forward with these measures. We believe that, consequently, an extension of the current state of emergency is necessary, as provided for in the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, in order to allow the adoption and implementation of measures to contain the spread of the virus. We are doing what needs to be done for our citizens and I believe that, for one last time, we must do so with this DCCM. Are we sure we can get out of this situation perfectly? I very much hope so, but we must do so with all the necessary instruments. The Group of the Democratic Party therefore rejects the proposal for a preliminary question on constitutionality relating to draft law No 2066. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u28	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, I have reread the proposal for a preliminary ruling tabled by Mr Pagano. These proposals are now repeated to every measure and it is now very clear, even in the presentation of the interventions, that they have to do with a number of different political objections and evaluations, which do not apply exactly to questions of constitutionality. We know perfectly well - as Mr Pagano knows, because in the first Commission we have auditioned, who knows how many times, constitutionalists on this matter, putting them a series of issues, also with respect to the bill for the establishment of a bicameral Commission on the epidemiological emergency by Covid-19, presented precisely by Senator Pagano - which we find at a complicated time in the life of the country, not only for the drama, but also for the fact that it has never happened, in republican history and I believe in the history of all parliaments of democratic constitution, to be faced with an event as dramatic as the pandemic. It is clear, therefore, that we are moving on a balance, on a delicate balance, very complex, between tackling the emergency by protecting the health of the citizens, and therefore the safety of the nation, and the attention in imposing a series of limitations concerning individual freedoms. Among other things, this is what our Constitution, in Article 120, provides for with absolute clarity; of course, the state of emergency is not regulated, but it is clear that there is supremacy at the head of the central state in addressing, above all, problems of national security order. And this is an emergency and national security problem. Of course we have a complex institutional balance which concerns the relationship with the regions and which has marked - negatively and positively, depending on the moments - all the phases of this long year. But these are issues that are more concerned with the reform of Title V, which has always encountered a number of problems and which perhaps has never been well defined, to the point of producing a constant and continuous conflict, not only in this dramatic moment of emergency and pandemic management, but since its approval, constantly marking the relationship between the State and the Regions with an opposition to the Constitutional Court that we might call endemic. It is clear, therefore, that this could not fail to occur even at this dramatic moment, with different assessments and dynamics. It is these days that we are debating statements which I personally, together with my entire Group, consider very serious about the fact that, even, we must get to a distribution of vaccines based on the GDP of the regions (in order to understand where we have arrived, even from a distance in the evaluations). These statements are very serious in relation to constitutional principles and citizens' rights, which are absolutely equal throughout the country and cannot be different from region to region or according to census and wealth (Article 3 of our Constitution, as well as that on the right to health). The balance and - I repeat - the balance between the priority of securing the country and the health of the citizens and the concern for the economy has been in all countries, European and non-European, where the pandemic is making victims and creating great problems and suffering. What emerges from the reading of the question asked by Senator Pagano is actually not the primacy of the country's safety from the point of view of the health of the citizens, but only the concern and the sole primacy of the economy and the productive system. I repeat, however, that it is clear that the conversion of all these decree-laws is absolutely necessary to safeguard the health of citizens. There is no illusion that without doing this, and therefore with all the necessary sacrifices and limitations, we can safeguard the economic and productive system; it is a pure illusion of purely ideological approach. For all these reasons, we reject the question and consider it absolutely and certainly unfounded. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u31	VITALI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, Decree-Law No 2 of 14 January 2021 extends the state of emergency to 30 April 2021, confirming from 16 January to 15 February the prohibition of movement between regions and provinces; extends until 30 April 2021 the possibility of the President of the Council to proceed with DPCM and delegates the Minister of Health to identify, with a number of parameters, some white areas in which restrictions can be loosened; and, again, the establishment of a computerised platform to regulate the vaccination plan is expected. We are faced with yet another decree-law, with the disproportionate use of the decree of urgency, which forgets that in our Constitution there is no special right for the state of emergency, as can be seen in other Constitutions (the French one, the Spanish one or the Hungarian one). In addition, I am reminded of the information given by the President-in-Office of the Council on 21 May 2020, whom I would like to read - you will forgive me - because we are starting from it for our considerations. On that occasion the President of the Council said: We cannot afford to prolong the effectiveness of limiting measures for an indefinite period of time. In fact, a liberal and democratic system cannot tolerate a compression of fundamental rights, except to the extent strictly necessary to defend the primary assets of the life and health of citizens, depending on a serious and current threat. The persistence of such strict measures in terms of the limitations of fundamental rights beyond the time necessary to reverse the contagion curve would therefore be unreasonable and incompatible with the principles of the Constitution. Welcome to the House, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. That is what we support. When there are unlimited fundamental constitutional rights, administrative measures such as the decrees of the President-in-Office of the Council cannot be used indiscriminately. We're not in an emergency anymore. I would like to remind you that this pandemic was born in January 2020; it has been a year and I do not believe that the Government has demonstrated that it has clear ideas when it should have taken not only preventive measures, but also measures to support the economy. [[Applause]] There is a big problem that is forgotten. We all hope that the vaccination plan will start properly, that there will be regular supplies, that there will also be other approved vaccines that can widen the audience of the products to be used. But when this pandemic has been defeated, we will not have finished our problems, because we will face a very serious economic crisis, which this Government has helped to create. [[Applause]] It is too simple to say that, since there is a pandemic and since the contagion curve is not loosened, we have to close everything. It is too simple; protests of productive activities are being born, which we understand and which we do not share, because we are for the respect of the law. Gentlemen, how can you explain to a restaurateur, who perhaps in February, March or April of last year, adhering to the indications of this Government, has invested important resources to make his premises fit for the pandemic, how can you explain to these gentlemen that in the hotels you can eat, that in the canteens you can eat, but in the restaurants not, why they must remain closed? How do you explain that to these desperate people? [[Applause]] And how do you explain to the productive activities, to the shops, to the traders who must remain closed, who must decide whether to die of Covid or starve? This is not what a government and a serious majority should implement. Restorations, for those who had them, represented both 7-8 per cent of the losses, something quite different from 70-75 per cent that other countries, such as Germany, have made available to their productive categories. We are creating the presuppositions of a country of poor and desperate, of a social revolution. For this you are responsible and we do not feel that there are elements of resistance in your legislative activity. You are overtaking Parliament's prerogatives; you are making it possible to overcome the debate and the debate. Yet from the opposition benches, also from the mouth of the authoritative leaders and leaders of the opposition parties, not once but several times has been stretched out to give a contribution or a suggestion, also because, at such a difficult time, so delicate and so desperate, I believe that politics must give an example of compactness. There will be moments for contrasts, there will be moments for one's diversity; Today the country needs unity and you make a crisis - shame! [[Applause]] - at such a delicate time, when people are unable to bring to the table something to eat for their children and their families and do not understand why, out of the blue, what was good yesterday is no longer good today. I believe that there is a limit that cannot be exceeded and that you too know: create the conditions for a cohesive majority of government and fully assume your responsibilities or, otherwise, it is useless to make a living by creating the conditions for an even more difficult situation to resolve. [[Applause]] I believe that you have created this situation and that you must take full responsibility for it. If you are unable to do so, assume the consequential determinations before it is too late. [[Applause]] History has taught us that revolutions are not made for political issues, for personal oppositions or for desire for premiership; they are done for hunger and Italy has now come to these conditions. Take on your responsibilities. That is why we shall be voting in favour of a preliminary constitutionality. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u34	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I confirm the Lega Group's vote in favour of the reference made by Forza Italia, not because we are not convinced that we are in a pandemic situation that must be addressed through some restrictions to try to combat the infection, but because the prolongation of the continuous and constant state of emergency that takes place over time leaves us with doubts. The emergency, in fact, is an element - says the word itself - that takes off with a surprise effect and I think that after a year more than being in emergency a serious state should have at least organized itself to face the pandemic, counter and try to contain the contagion. This has not happened at all. From a certain point of view, extending is not even so good for you in the majority because extending the state of emergency basically means declaring or almost certifying your failure in the conflict of the pandemic and in the measures you are trying to implement to improve the situation both from the health and the economic point of view. I repeat that we do not say that there should not be restrictions, but perhaps more attention in the evaluation of some activities would benefit everyone even in terms of the use of possible refreshments. There are, in fact, activities with such spaces and sizes that could open and you, instead, insist on keeping them closed. If instead of closing all the activities - I think, for example, to the restaurateurs - those that have more space and can respect the distances more, those that are obliged to close because small could undoubtedly receive more refreshments than those that are normally given. There are many evaluations that you can make and instead you go on your way. I shall close by referring to the appeal made by my colleague, who said that we do not understand anything and that we must make an effort to be free afterwards. This is an intelligent reasoning: we make a sacrifice today to be free tomorrow; however, in November you tell us that we close to be free at Christmas; Christmas arrives and you tell us that we close at Christmas so we will be free in January [[Applause]] ; then comes January too and you say that we close to be free in March. In this way this theory loses all credibility, as happened to your Government after yesterday. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u37	AUDDINO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, it is with some embarrassment that I am speaking today in this House and I would like it to be felt by those who speak in disturbing my speech. I am embarrassed because the events of these last days have put us in front of a completely new picture and force us, play force, to distract our gaze and our energies from the only true important fact that should engage all our forces, majority and opposition, that is the contrast to the spread of the virus and the economic crisis that we are experiencing. [[Brusio]] This only consideration should be sufficient to reduce what has happened these days, yet we have often found ourselves, forced by events, to talk about much more. The representatives of the opposition, even today with this reference, try to explain to us in every way the reasons for their dissent. Beyond all rhetorical artifacts and all the Byzantineisms of Italian politics, of which frankly I am proudly inexperienced, we are not facing a confrontation between ideologies. We are here to deal with the consequences of a health and economic crisis that will still have to show all its harmful effects for many years, with a tail that I fear will be very long. At a time when all the weight of the gravity of the situation must be placed on the shoulders, the decision to divide within the majority, as you all saw yesterday, because of the crisis triggered by Italy Viva, or to divide between majority and opposition only weakens the action of this Government to the disadvantage of the citizens, our employers, those we represent here with their anxieties, their legitimate aspirations and their good reasons. I tell my colleagues in Italy Viva, because I love to think that among them there are also distinctions and criticism of the choices made by their own leader. I say this to the opposition, who may not be so pleased to listen to me, so that it can demonstrate in fact, in this House, how willing it is to take responsibility for taking part in the Government's choices in a pure and sincere constructive spirit, in fact, not just in words. Criticism is fine, but share in our choices: our children, your children will be grateful. Moreover, the events and the necessity of history have already led us to share this experience of Government among different political forces, first with you and now with the left forces. We have fought and fought in the past, in the last election campaigns; this applies to you as it does to them, to the League as well as to the PD, it applies to everyone, not just in a sense. Yet, the sense of responsibility has led us to overcome our divisions and prejudices, also paying an important price within our political formation, allying ourselves first with the League and then with the forces of the left. After defections and divisions, however, we are still here, driving this country, in the darkest hour of its recent history. Why did we do that? Why are we doing this? Has this choice yielded important results? Certainly yes, but not for the Movimento 5 Stars, not for the PD, not for LEU, but for Italy as a whole, dear colleagues, because Italy is the country that has obtained the most in this breakdown of the recovery fund. [[Applause.]] Italy is first in the administration of vaccines and to have achieved this is a very important result, to have achieved so much in the distribution of the recovery fund is an epochal result; the issue of a loan with common debt securities guaranteed by the Union finally approaches the idea of a shared debt. Not even two years ago, ladies and gentlemen, we fought for a 0.4% deviation of the deficit-GDP ratio, but now we are called to bring home the recovery plan, which is the largest investment in economic resources in our country since the Second World War, a real Marshall plan. This additional emergency measure, which is necessary to deal with the health emergency, does not now need the instrumental use that you make of the prejudices, but a sound and robust discussion between majority and opposition, in order to improve - if anything - the decree-law at our examination. The preliminary ruling uses the usual argument of the illegality of the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers, but the Constitution, as you well know, allows for the provision of rules of principle in a decree and detailed rules in the DPCM, so there is nothing illegitimate. The DPCMs were used as exceptional means at an exceptional time, but always in the Charter bed. By extending the state of emergency, we equip the Government with all the necessary tools to act quickly and effectively. To those who accused us of being against Europe until yesterday, we have shown that we were against that Europe, the Europe of accounting rigidity, austerity, the Europe that regarded subsidies as a waste of public money and that instead now we have recourse to public support for the economy, as you know, and to the citizens who are also your citizens, not just ours, through the rest of Europe. We have shown that a different relationship with the Union is possible, a relationship that is so conflicting, but sincere and responsible, in the exclusive interest of all the Member States, in the interest of that Europe of the peoples that is so dear to all of us, against the policies of austerity that were reigning until a few years ago. In the long run, ladies and gentlemen, this commitment has been recognised and has borne fruit thanks to the tireless work of President Conte, of the whole Government and of Minister Amendola in particular. This cannot be lost now. Now more than ever, the country needs a solid guide, an unbreakable harmony between the forces of government and the watchful and yet collaborative gaze of the opposition, because from this harmony, today more than ever, depends the destiny of all Italy. We need the strength to make other important and difficult choices and to support those already taken. Hence the need to have the help of all men and women of good will in this House, to which President Conte also referred yesterday. Otherwise, the price to be paid could be too high and the political and social consequences unpredictable. The Italian people have been patient in respecting the strict rules that the pandemic imposed and the various restrictions on personal freedom, but could they endure a government crisis at the same time? We have just seen what happened in a great democracy like the United States when only the appearance of an unlegitimate power appeared. The weakness of politics at this moment would provide lifeblood in Italy to anti-democratic drives that, although creeping in our society, we see that they always survive, if we are able to look beyond the windows of these buildings. Perhaps, against all this, the only embankment will be our and your seriousness, credibility and I also add consistency in introducing us to the country with concrete ideas and tangible results in the exclusive interest of citizens. School, health, work and business are waiting for nothing else. How can you divide yourself on these issues? I don't think so, and I don't share it. The vote of the Assembly today, like that of yesterday but also like those of the future, will put each of you before your own responsibilities, before the country and before history. The extension of the state of emergency and the adoption of all the measures necessary for the containment of the spread of the epidemic stem from factual data on the evolution of the pandemic and the worrying increase in positive cases and deaths. Never before have politics and science gone so well together. Even the vote... [[Brusio]] Excuse my colleagues... The vote we are about to give this afternoon will also call on all of us, no one excluded, a majority and a minority, to make choices beyond the party-cracy, beyond their own convictions and beyond the logic of belonging to this or that political area. Choices made in the exclusive interest of the citizens in this greve now. If not, do you really want to take responsibility - I would say the blame - in front of the history of the country to continue to fuel crises in the eyes of the citizens? In the face of all this, ladies and gentlemen, we are called upon to make a choice of responsibility. At times like these we are called to decide why we have been elected to stand in this House and decide, serving the country with discipline and honor, as the Constitution says. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u38	Finish it, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u39	AUDDINO (M5S). If I may have a few seconds to finish. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Thirty seconds tops. AUDDINO (M5S). The evolution of the epidemiological situation, the particularly widespread nature of the epidemic and the increase in cases and deaths require us to curb the contagiousness and the development of new outbreaks. We are living in an exceptional historical moment. We are trying to govern fate with the tools we have; law and science; we have no better. In exceptional situations, responses must also be ready, clear and firm in decision-making and precision. Thanks to the readiness... [[Comments]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u40	Finish it, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u41	AUDDINO (M5S). Precisely thanks to the readiness with which the Government declared 31 January 2020, as the colleague recalled, the state of emergency was able to implement all the necessary measures to contain the curve of contagions. The Government, in achieving this objective, has never exonerated Parliament which, on the contrary, has always continued to carry out its functions. We're discussing a decree-law... [[Comments]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u42	Quiet! AUDDINO (M5S). We are debating a decree-law which will see the proper involvement of Parliament, remembering that we are faced with a situation that requires measures of absolute necessity and urgency. However, the decree-law in these circumstances remains the only instrument available, unless the opposition intends to face the current stage in Parliament's time.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u43	[[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u44	We shall proceed to the vote. [[Applause]] Pursuant to Rule 78 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the question for a preliminary ruling QP1, tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators, referring to the bill n. 2066. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I suspend the sitting until 4 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 11.45 p.m. and resumed at 16.08 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u45	[[The President and the Assembly stand.]] Senators, I would like to invite the House to join us at a time of solemn recollection in memory of Senator Emanuele Macaluso. Born in Caltanissetta on March 21, 1924, son of a railway worker and a housewife, Emanuele Macaluso graduated as a mining expert, because that was the school that his brothers had attended and those were the only books available in the family. It is precisely during his adolescence that they matured in him the awareness of the enormous difficulties in his land and the desire to roll up his sleeves, to help and improve the living conditions of so many fellow citizens. This is the spirit with which Emanuele Macaluso has always interpreted his public commitment, as well as his political militancy among the ranks of the Italian Communist Party, of which he soon became the leader and key figure, in a complex era, of fragile economic balances and profound social conflicts. Parliamentary for seven legislatures, from 1963 to 1992, of which four lived among the benches of the Senate, Emanuele Macaluso was always a concrete and dialogue politician, characterized also by a great freedom of thought and a modern and reforming vision of political commitment. He was a party man appreciated and esteemed even by those who did not share his ideas. Director of Unity and other important newspapers, founder of authoritative magazines of opinion, columnist of prestigious national newspapers, each of his articles was a lesson in politics, history and culture. Even during these dramatic months of pandemics, Emanuele Macaluso has never ceased to be interested in Italian political and social events, to analyze them and comment on them with incredible lucidity. With Emanuele Macaluso he leaves us an authentic protagonist of two centuries of national history, one of the most incisive critical consciences in the construction of our democracy and in the consolidation of its values. In memory of Senator Emanuele Macaluso, I invite the Assembly to observe a minute's silence. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u48	CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, I am speaking only to add a very heartfelt, affectionate and deferent tribute to the memory of Emanuele Macaluso, a great personality of these years, of the end of the twentieth century and of the ideological contrasts of that century, and a careful observer of today's politics. Even from the height of a venerable age, he has always given particularly acute, intelligent and non-conformist judgments. Your words today, Mr President of the Senate, were the best testimony of what we all think of Emanuele Macaluso. Allow me to add that you have also interpreted that deep feeling of nostalgia that I feel for a policy made up of civil passion, great offices of ideality and clashes, even hard, but on principles and values deemed unavailable. Emanuele Macaluso was this and the fact that at the end of his life, in drawing a balance on his existence, flying over all his most severe self-criticisms, he wanted to write an epitaph of this type (which I am going to read) is the most emblematic demonstration of his moral depth: "I have spent my life" - wrote Emanuele Macaluso - "to improve the conditions of the weakest and a life spent so is a life spent well." [[Applause]] I know that at this moment, on behalf of the Group for Autonomies, who would like to commemorate Emanuele Macaluso was his great friend, his companion of a thousand political battles in the PCI and then on the Italian left: the president emeritus Giorgio Napolitano. [[Applause]] To him I address a respectful greeting, because these two personalities together wrote the story not only of the Italian left, but of its evolution. Macaluso fought among the peasants in Sicily for their rights; he worked with Togliatti, with Berlinguer and then with Occhetto in the sense of a reformist direction for the Italian Communist Party. He has worked in a non-conformist way in recent years to make sense of the direction of march of a left who, after the fall of the Berlin Wall, was struggling to find the right way, but above all has always been spent in favor of the rights of everyone, even his political opponents. Allow me, precisely in this regard, to finish by reading what Emanuele Macaluso wrote, demonstrating his anti-conformism and his individual freedom with respect to an event that marked his generation, the trial at Andreotti. Macaluso wrote: "That to Andreotti and to Andreottismo had to be a process made by politics, able to initiate a serious reflection on the phenomena that have distorted and sometimes polluted the First Republic. Instead, a long criminal trial was held which dragged fifty years of political history into the closed barracks and prosecutors. With the consequence that, at the end of the carousel, the curtain of the prescription has dropped not only on Andreotti but on the whole Christian Democracy, from De Gasperi to Scelba, from Fanfani to Moro to Rumor. An injustice. Emanuele Macaluso, with his eighty-nine years, did not give himself peace of this and felt in moral duty to bring back to the political plane the judgment that opposed him to his opponents of before, that is to say to the Christian Democracy, of which he had been opponent, but of which he always refused any idea of criminalization. This was the clash, colleagues (I say this especially to the youngest), of the personalities of thirty or forty years ago, who would never have thought of shortcuts of the judicial type or of facts of disloyalty to contrast with each other in a debate that was instead animated by a great civil passion. For me Macaluso was an example, for me who never militated in his political part, but I feel in this sense of thanking him, because he was really a personality from which, above all, the youngest, who are going to politics, have to learn a lot. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u51	SBROLLINI (IV-PSI). Mr President, thank you for your words and thank you, Mr Casini, for your words. With the death of Emanuele Macaluso we lose a piece of reformist history of the Italian left; we lose, as has already been said, an anti-conformist spirit, a betterist. We lose a person who really gave his whole life to politics, first in union and journalism, then as the leader of the Italian Communist Party; a passionate and free man in his lucid political analyses, until the last day, until the last moment. I reread the latest interviews he had recently released; he said it was difficult to live in these pandemic times, which he had never seen a country like this. He, who had lived the years of war, the bombings, the years of terrorism, said that war and terrorism can be reacted; but how can we react to the pandemic? We can only remain locked inside our homes, separated from others and forced to fight fear by staying alone. This cancellation of social life will affect each one of us, he said. As he rightly said in this recent interview, we know how much we are suffering from this situation that takes away every relational life, the social life that we are accustomed to; but that loneliness and silence of which Macaluso spoke in the last interviews were the opposite of his political life, that of a great personality that marked the history of Italian politics and the left, a secular and critical conscience. His life and political culture accompanied very difficult periods of Italian history, when it was difficult to be a betterman, along with his great friend Giorgio Napolitano. Macaluso was an uncomfortable man, as he was previously reminded, but he was always attentive and protective towards young people, towards the new generations, just as he was strict with the entire ruling and political class today. He often said that politics is weak today: it is a policy without a vision that cannot solve problems. I would like to recall him as a politician capable of being heard, even in the most difficult moments, a man who fortunately left a heritage of values, history, writings and books; a reference for everyone. Today more than ever, more than yesterday, we need to find and bet on politics, the one with capital P. We need a high political thought, a vision for today and tomorrow; we need places of discussion and discussion. Only in this way will we play our role, even today, as parliamentarians, and our role in society. Mr President, we need a reformist culture and today, with a great sense of responsibility, we need to play this role. On behalf of the Italia Viva Group, we leave our deepest condolences to his family, his wife Enza, his son Antonio and his beloved grandchildren. We lose a great man, but fortunately we remain a great cultural heritage. We really hope, with the stimuli that we can give from this important place of discussion and political confrontation, to invite the new generations to read his books, to reflect and to deepen, as it is right that it is. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u54	Mr Urso (FdI). Mr President, the Fratelli d'Italia Group also pays tribute to Emanuele Macaluso, who disappeared at almost ninety-seven years old, a few hours before the centenary of the birth of the Italian Communist Party (which I believe is on tomorrow's day, in memory of when some, with Nicolino Bombacci and Antonio Gramsci, founded the Italian Communist Party in Livorno by a split of the Socialist Party). Macaluso was and was born as a communist in very difficult years, with a rebellious and fighting spirit, obviously attentive, as the communists were then, to the social needs and to the workers' and trade union struggles. At the same time, it had an extraordinary intellectual vitality, which kept until the last day of its existence, aware as few that man is above all a forge of ideas and lives in that he expresses his own. He wanted to communicate these ideas to everyone and as a journalist he wrote to her and wrote them to the end. This is how we remember Macaluso, who later became with Napolitano one of the spirits and leaders of the bestists within the Italian Communist Party. And like the other improvers, he managed to evolve and break solidarity with the Soviet Union. Perhaps we could say that he should have done it sooner: surely; just as certainly we can say, however, that he did it before so many others. Of his figure we remember the most significant aspect, which makes us understand who he was, when as regional secretary of the Communist Party, even at the suggestion of Togliatti, decided to launch a Government of the Sicilian Region, the Milazzo Government, in which the Communist Party voted as city council members expression of the Italian Social Movement. Let's talk about the end of the '50s, when there was the Cold War. And at that moment the value was highlighted... [[The microphone is switched off automatically)...]] to break the double exclusion, that of the Communist Party. Think that the act led to the excommunication on the part of the Church - I stress - of those who collaborated with the Communist Party in Sicily. Well, that was the only occasion in which representatives of the Italian Communist Party - I speak of 1958 - voted representatives of the Government of the Right then, of the Italian Social Movement. There is no other episode in Italian history. But that episode, made by Macaluso in tune with Nino Buttafuoco (who was also my political teacher), demonstrates the value of that and other personalities that are part of our common history. This is so true that - as Senator Casini said before - Macaluso, while fighting his opponents, when they fell, helped them to get up again. He's always defended... [[The microphone is switched off automatically)...]] demonstrating in this sense its value and personality. In conclusion, in remembering him as part of our common Italian history and of this Parliament, I recall what he wrote in a book to explain to the new people, to the reformists, who could not completely break their roots in communism. That goes for everyone. He resorted to a Chinese proverb, according to which one who takes water from a well should never forget who dug it. This obviously applies to the parties and the protagonists of that time, but it also applies to our history, not only to the history of the Italian Republic, which is a recent history, but to the millenary history of the Italian nation. From his symbols, with his protagonists, how he was... [[The microphone automatically switches off]] . .our common thousand-year-old identity. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u57	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, thank you for your words. It is truly an emotion for me to remember Macaluso, whom I met many years ago. I'm aware of my inadequacy. I would like to thank my previous colleagues, also for the memory of an absolutely unique political experience, such as that of Milazzo, which has now been mentioned. It is impossible to summarize his experience: a great personality, which has marked the history of our country, politics and Italian culture. Son of a working family, trade unionist of the CGIL, then chief executive of the PCI, director of the Unity, publicist, man of culture. They are Di Vittorio first and Togliatti then those who value and invest on the quality of Macaluso and his great intelligence; he is an absolute protagonist, he is a great Italian communist. You were right, Mr President, to point that out. In today's publication in reference to the hundred years of the PCI, in a conversation with Macaluso he had the way to say that his PCI was born from a social condition perhaps incomprehensible to the new generations and that it remained in his heart, because it marked his life and even his old age. A man convinced that he was a protagonist and a builder of a great political path: the new party of Togliatti. It holds a very close relationship with Berlinguer, then with Napolitano, among others, and always has the national idea, the idea of the nation, the Italian way. This can be reflected precisely in these months. Anyone who has known him has appreciated, in addition to intelligence, certainly also the extraordinary political passion, which - as has been said - has never failed, even in the last few days. He saw politics as a set of values, as a political project and a vision of the world; it was for him the way of being modern, free and, at the same time, deeply linked to his community, as he had the opportunity to emphasize Castellina today in an article, which recalls that he was one of the very few leaders who, after the expulsion of the people of the manifesto, continued to meet them, to greet them, to appreciate them. It was built not on the basis of an ideological system; but, from the struggle in favour of the peasants to the fight against the mafia, it was built in the real social process. A reformist, he courageously said, an improver and a great guarantor, as President Casini rightly mentioned before me, not in a single sense, but sincere and without any reluctance. He was a free man because he was strong and steadfast in content and critical spirit, without ever abandoning his community. I believe that we will miss and miss his voice precisely in the year in which we celebrate the hundred years since the founding of the PCI and in this very difficult moment. Macaluso has never given up on a problem: it is necessary to rebuild the mass left. This is an issue on the agenda not so much for us, but for the new generations. It takes a cultural leap; it is necessary to open a construction site, to have a critical spirit, to measure with the great innovations that will be the foundation of a modern left - as has been said about the metaphor of the well - without ever forgetting the deep roots that are represented magnificently also in the contradictions and extraordinary life of Emanuele Macaluso. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u60	Mr Verducci (PD). Mr President, yesterday morning, before we were in the Chamber, we received Senator Ugo Sposetti's call informing the Democratic Party of the disappearance of Emanuele Macaluso. The name and figure of Emanuele Macaluso are much more than the legacy of his parliamentary activity, which he carried out since the 1960s, first in the Chamber and then here in the Senate. Of those years of tumultuous transformations he was always lucid and never dogmatic analyst. These were years of claims and social conquests of which he was the leading political leader of the Italian Communist Party, a social force and a leading group without whose decisive and substantial contribution we would not have the Constitution of our Republic as advanced as we know it today. Emanuele Macaluso often remarked this. Its disappearance at almost a hundred years takes place on the days of the centenary of the birth of the Italian Communist Party and the dramatic division of Livorno. Throughout his political life Macaluso fought for the unity of the left and for the historical reasons of the encounter between democratic and reformist forces. It has done so in the harshest passages of our republican history, such as the one marked by terrorism, or later in the years of the ever-stronger breakdown between societies and institutions, which still afflicts our democracy in a crisis. For so many of us, who were young militants in the 1980s, that of Macaluso was one of the figures of the legendary, in our eyes, Communist leader group. He was called to you by Togliatti in 1956, paradigmatic year, to help build a popular party rooted in the urgency of new social needs. It came from the concrete struggles of the union and was wanted by Di Vittorio to lead the chamber of work of Caltanissetta and then the union in the whole island. He was born from a poor family in the poorest land of the solfatari in Sicily. In his life as a political and intellectual militant he has always embodied the ideals of emancipation and social justice that led him as a boy to choose to be on the side of laborers, workers and disinherits. When I think of Macaluso, I think of the deaths of Portella della Ginestra, the miters of the mafia against the struggles of workers and miners, the struggle for agrarian reform, to give the land to those who worked it. Macaluso was all this and countless other things, because he lived so many lives in a very intense and hard time. Journalist and polemicist of rare intelligence and political stature, he was at the side of Berlinguer as political leader. It was his turn to be the director of the Unity in the terrible days of Berlinguer's death, knowing how to leave from the pages of the newspaper the historical testimony of a huge emotional motion, of a national collective mourning. His speeches on the social issue and on the southern issue still speak loudly to those who want to rebuild a political culture of radical change... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] He was communist and reformist, claiming the link between the two things in the history of Italy. He was a strong guarantor, in close and fruitful dialogue with Leonardo Sciascia; he was a pro-European, socialist, always; he was a man of absolute political passion and moral rigour. Of Emanuele Macaluso there are many beautiful images and, among them, those that portray him with President Giorgio Napolitano. Their human and political partnership has lasted all their lives. Emanuele Macaluso was lucid critical conscience of the left and the Italian Republic. It has never stopped denouncing the danger of the lack of structured and entrenched parties, of a weak policy, captured by strong powers. It has never stopped denouncing the danger of the lack of political autonomy, the danger of populism and anti-politics as betrayal of the just demands of the weakest. It was - and I conclude, Mr President - a great Italian, one of the most lucid and best interpreters of the great lesson of our twentieth century and will continue to be a fundamental reference for those who believe in democracy and in our country. Mr President, I am grateful because I know that the Senate of the Italian Republic will attend the funeral of Emanuele Macaluso tomorrow, 21 January. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u63	CANGINI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Emanuele Macaluso, a giant of political analysis as well as a great gentleman, did not die yesterday: he died in 1989 with the fall of the Berlin Wall, not because under the ruins of the Berlin Wall he was crushed what remained of his political world (communism), but because since then gradually, but quickly, began to die the geopolitical order and politics, the one with capital P, that not only of ideologies, but also of ideas and parties, the politics of vision and roots that plan a future. This was Macaluso's true identity. He was a politician who formed in the days when politics had a value and dignity, in which he assumed a primacy. It is for this reason that for someone like me, total anti-communist, it was not at all difficult to have a deep relationship with such a personality, as it was not with other witnesses of other political cultures, but of that era, such as Francesco Cossiga and Rino Formica, just to mention the three political cultures that animated, for good and evil, the history of the first Republic: all personalities who believed in the primacy of politics, expressed by a world that no longer exists, but who have not renounced to testify to the existence in life of that world, to honor it. To tell the truth Macaluso was not the perfect testimonial of the Communist Party: he was in minority in the PC, he was Amendolist, he was better. He was, as you have mentioned in many and it was right to remember him, a guarantor, in line and in perfect harmony with another Sicilian gallant man like Leonardo Sciascia and, consequently, he had deep relations with the radicals, which was unacceptable at the time for an integral Tagliatian communist. It was so because he was a free man and his freedom as a man cost him a trial not only in court, but also in politics. He almost got kicked out of the Italian Communist Party for committing the grave fault of falling in love with a married woman. They were other times, moralism was then allignant more in the ranks of the Communist Party than in that of the Christian Democracy, paradoxically, the morals were double, but this is another discourse. I believe that the figure of Macaluso must be remembered for its consistency and for its extreme freedom. Macaluso has never denied his history as a man, his political history, he has never denied communism at a time when everyone denies everything, he has always tried to explain at a time when no one can explain anything more. He died keeping the dignity and importance of politics high. He died on the attention like the watchman found petrified in Pompeii after the eruption of Vesuvius; on the attention because nobody - in the case of Macaluso, not a man, but history - had dissolved the delivery he had received. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u66	GRASSI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is an honour for me to recall in this House, on behalf of the party to which I belong, Emanuele Macaluso, who died yesterday at the age of ninety-seven. I like to remember him first of all for what he just left us. Only a few weeks ago he had completed the revision of the drafts of his last book "Commonists in our way," which will be published shortly. It is often that the most lucid and brilliant minds, just because they are, remain efficient until the last and Emanuele Macaluso, dismissing his last book at the extraordinary age of ninety-seven, allows us to continue the dialogue with him, even after his disappearance. The fourth cover tells us that a hundred years after the founding of the Communist Party, Emanuele Macaluso and Claudio Petruccioli retrace it unscrewed and epochal turns, recalling the social conquests of which he was promoter and assuming alternative roads that Italy could take to prevent the political and cultural decline of the country. Macaluso joins the Communist Party with courage when Fascism is still in power in Italy and throughout his life he will remain faithful to his initial choice. I have said faithfully and not coherently because the art of politics requires us to adapt our thinking and actions to an uncontrollable variable such as the becoming of human societies. Macaluso was among those who intuited the need to make the Italian left a protagonist of Italian politics, even when history had shown that the doctrine of Marxism as a doctrine of the State had ended and exhausted its thrust. Of those ideas he continued to defend its values while aware that the means had to change. Effectively, Salvatore Veca defined the internal political current of the Italian Communist Party as improving, of which Macaluso, together with Napolitano and Chiaromonte, was among the theorists; current that claimed the need not to overthrow capitalism already, but to counter it in order to attenuate its tendency to overwhelm the human person and make it only a factor of the market. We had and need people like him, whatever the political side we recognize ourselves in because democracy is in its ultimate essence confrontation in order to arrive at a synthesis that is the best for the country. Emanuele Macaluso, with his figure, reminds us that in politics there are opponents and not already enemies and it is this idea that Italy today needs more than ever. Farewell Senator Macaluso, may we all be worthy of your moral heritage. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u69	DI NICOLA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is with emotion that today we remember Senator Macaluso, the historical leader of the Italian Communist Party, trade unionist, journalist and director of the Unity. Remembering and commemorating in this House a figure like that of Macaluso is not at all simple. We can say that its human, civil and political path shows the characteristics of that extraordinary democratic growth that has allowed our people to free themselves from fascism, to have a Constitution respectful of the original and inviolable rights of the person, to progress in economic well-being and social solidarity. [[Applause]] Andreotti aside, the life of Emanuele Macaluso is locked up for me in a sentence that he said on the columns of "L'Espresso". He said he became a communist out of rebellion. In this sentence there is all the sense of the choices of a life and I wish here to recall his political commitment as a son of the South, matured as a very young man, motivated by the will to emancipation of the weakest and to protect the workers, developing in the CGIL and the Italian Communist Party with initiatives on courageous and difficult events, called by Giuseppe Di Vittorio at only twenty-three years to direct in Sicily the union of laborers - today he qualifies abused by second-tier politicians to gain positions of power often not deserved [[Applause) -]] , in years when Girolamo Li Causi's rallies the mafia responded with bombs and guns. Macaluso has been a protagonist of republican history and has contributed, as a political and intellectual leader, to the democratic growth of the country. A great Sicilian, but also a great southernist, who tried to put his Sicily and the whole Mezzogiorno in the right light; a Mezzogiorno that in his opinion should have used even the crisis as an opportunity to rethink and bet on the innovation, the necessary change, the need to shake off old mentality and cultural indolences; a South, according to Macaluso, who also had to feel the social pain, the effort to live, the even desperate demand for the work of those young generations trapped in the bruises circuits of precariousness. It admonished all politics to return to investing quantitatively and qualitatively on training, education, culture and research by recovering ability to listen to the skills and passions of those who live in school and university. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as one of your old comrades has written today, remembering Macaluso, the history of the Italian Communist Party is a noble story, but at times contradictory, but it has marked our entire democratic culture even at times when the courage of a certain leadership of that party, of which Macaluso had been and was an integral part, missed the opportunity to unravel in time from the ideological loop of the Soviet regime and which probably would have changed the course of our recent history, perhaps not hindering that left alternative that in the seventies Italy could have experimented to get out of a Christian democratic regime by now decoction, such as the affair of tangentopolis and the sunset of the First Republic have demonstrated [[Applause]] However, others will say and write more fully about the figure of Emanuele Macaluso and those contradictory years, perhaps exploiting the wave of the centenary of the foundation of the Italian Communist Party. Today we feel grateful to this man, to this political leader, trade unionist and journalist who, with intelligence, passion, curiosity and courage, has gone through Italian history with loyalty, giving a great contribution to the civil growth of our country. My condolences go to the family and those of all the Senators of the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u70	The next item is the debate on document LVII- bis, No 4.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u73	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, I rise to ask the Government and the majority forces whether, like what is happening in the House of Deputies, it is possible to suspend the sitting or hold a meeting while the debate on budgetary deviation is under way, in order to consider the possibility of prior agreement on a resolution covering the acceptance of part of our indications. The House of Deputies was granted a request for suspension. I would ask the Government and the majority whether they are available for a confrontation to try the way towards a united resolution, or at least for the adoption, in the majority resolution, of some indications contained in the motion for a resolution that the centre-right is writing. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. How long are you talking about, Senator Ciriani? CIRIANI (FdI). I also propose that the meeting be held in the margins, without the suspension of the sitting, where possible. It depends on the availability of the Government, which I see being represented only by Deputy Minister Misiani. It would take an interruption of about 20 minutes or half an hour at most.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u76	FARAONE (IV-PSI). Mr President, we agree with Mr Ciriani's proposal. I would like to know whether this meeting can be held without interrupting the sitting in order to continue the debate. We would be inclined to this solution.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u77	If you all agree, we can carry out these consultations in the course of the debate. However, this presupposes a general agreement. As we all agree, there is therefore no need to interrupt the sitting and we can continue with our work. The rapporteur, Senator Pesco, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u78	Mr President, the Government has forwarded to Parliament the report setting out the update of the Re-entry Plan towards the medium-term objective compared to the updated note of the 2020 Economy and Finance Document, which has already been amended for 2020 only, with the report approved by the Chambers on 26 November. The report under consideration is adopted pursuant to Article 6 of Law No 243 of 24 December 2012, the so-called reinforced law implementing the principle of balance-of-balance-sheet, which provides for temporary deviations of the structural balance from the medium-term objective to be allowed in the event of exceptional events, after consulting the European Commission and subject to authorisation approved by the Chambers by an absolute majority of the respective components, while at the same time indicating the Re-entry Plan towards the medium-term objective. It should be recalled that in 2020 five permissions were approved by the Chambers to deviate from the Return Plan in order to cope with the economic consequences of the pandemic from Covid-19. In anticipation, the Government recalls both the decision of the European Commission to apply the so-called general escape clause of the Stability and Growth Pact and the recommendation, addressed by the Commission itself to the Member States, to maintain, also for 2021, an expansionary intonation of budgetary policy. The Government first points out that, due to the further restrictions introduced in December to contain the epidemic and the time needed to complete the vaccination campaign, the sectors with the highest social contact intensity will continue to be negatively affected by the pandemic. Therefore, the stringent health measures require much greater support and refreshment than foreseen in the 2021 budget law. In particular, the Government intends to adopt measures concerning new appropriations to protect work: increased support for local self-government, increased resources for civil protection and law enforcement, additional resources for the health sector (in particular in the context of the vaccination campaign and the treatment of patients with Covid-19), additional resources for the public transport system, temporal remodulation of the sending of tax collections and a number of measures for companies. The government therefore requires, for the current year, the authorization to use the greater indebtedness of 32 billion euros in terms of net debt of the general government; 35 billion euros in terms of needs; 40 billion euros in terms of net balance to be financed of the budget of the state of competence; 50 billion euros, always in terms of net balance to be financed, in terms of cash. It also requires the authorisation of the use of debt for the greater burdens deriving from the debt service up to 200 million annually in the two-year period 2022-2023; 300 million euros annually in the two-year period 2024-2025; 400 million euros annually in 2026-2027; 500 million euros annually in 2028-2029; 600 million euros in 2030 and 700 million euros from 2031. This deviation therefore re-determines both the maximum level of the net balance to be financed from the State budget, in terms of competence and cash, as set out in Annex 1 to the 2021 Budget Law, and the maximum amount of issue of public bonds in Italy and abroad, net of those to be reimbursed and those for debit adjustments, together with the European Union loans, referred to in Article 3, paragraph 2 of the same law. In contrast to the previous report to Parliament, this does not explicitly indicate the new values including the use of higher debt requirements, the net debt of the PA for 2021, either in absolute terms or as a percentage of GDP, and the government debt in relation to GDP. Taking into account the values indicated in NADEF 2020, in the technical report to the draft budget bill 2021-2023 and, last, in the technical note to the draft budget bill 2021-2023, as a result of the required authorisation, the net debt of the PA would increase in absolute value to approximately EUR 105,6 billion, with an impact on GDP of around 8.8%. In this respect, I would remind the House that the Minister, at the hearing, confirmed these figures. The report also highlights that, given the temporary nature of the interventions, it remains substantially confirmed that from 2022 the return path to the medium-term objective, already indicated in NADEF 2020, has resulted from the application of the budget law 2021-2023. This would seem to result in the essentially neutral nature of the shift required in terms of the structural budget balance. With regard to debt, in absolute value, the increase should be of the order of 35 billion euros for the year 2021, corresponding to the increase required by the needs. For further information, please refer to the Notes of the Study Service and the balance sheet of the Chamber and the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u79	I recall that, pursuant to article 6, paragraph 3, of Law n. 243 of 2012, the resolution by which each Chamber authorizes the deviation of the balance sheet and authorizes the return to debt plan is adopted by an absolute majority of the respective components. Motions for resolutions on the report will have to be tabled before the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u80	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I will not make a technical analysis of the measure, first of all because the minutes at my disposal are very few and then because there are colleagues who will certainly, as members of the relevant Commissions, be able to make a better analysis than mine. However, I shall confine myself to two reflections. The first one. A few days ago, Senator Monti, in a post, addressed - in terms perhaps not so political, very hard and direct - an issue on which I believe this House must absolutely reflect, since we all know that we are in favour of budgetary deviation today. Basically, Senator Monti says that it is important to urgently raise the problem of how much sense it makes to continue to restore with debt the losses of many activities for which it would be better for the State to favour restructuring or closure. I repeat, I probably would not have said so myself, but, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is time to think about what? The fact that the Italian economy needs a profound restructuring. If we then think about where these reforms will end, which are absolutely not enough - and the whole House agrees, right and left, with regard to dealing with this further deviation in the budget - and so I am referring above all to the world of trade and public exercises, I believe that we must necessarily reflect (I say this as a liberal, that is, as a person who believes in the free market) on the fact that perhaps this competition without rules - I am referring in particular to the famous liberalisation of licences wanted by Bersani - is giving some problem. I'll explain. There are a number of activities that just can't take it anymore. The competition that has brought down the quality of services and goods, trying to lower prices more and more in order to gain market shares, has absolutely not been good for entrepreneurs. So, I simply say that a reflection in this sense must definitely be carried forward, in a very secular way. The second reflection. We know that some of the refreshments go to support the Integration Fund. Well, I'd like to tell you what happened in October, reporting a figure that was released by the welfare department in Zurich. This is a very interesting news: in October 2020, 26 flight attendants of the Swiss International Air Lines company worked to track Covid's contacts. What do I mean by that? That Italy is far behind, that we must make a very strong cultural operation because there will be a whole series of trades that will disappear and we continue, instead, to finance the integration fund [[Applause]] rather than pay attention to what? I have asked several times: to that redevelopment of human capital which in some cases is absolutely possible. The testimony of these 26, two of which I knew.... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u81	Senator Tiraboschi, I would remind you that, if necessary, you can deliver the text of your speech, so that it can be annexed to today's report. She's registered to speak Senator Faggi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u82	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not go into the substance of the technical data, because the rapporteur has explained them better than I do and other authoritative representatives will explain them as well. On the other hand, I would like to focus on two small points, which I think are important. I'm going back about 12 months ago. At the beginning of the pandemic we were not prepared, but by the end of March Senator Salvini said that it would be very important to take a shot economically. He said, in fact, that something like EUR 100 billion had to be put in place and was ridiculed, he was told that it was not the case, that it was too much, that it was an astronomical figure. Again in yesterday's debate, a colleague from the majority said that Senator Salvini was playing the relaunch. Given the debts, today we are at the crossroads between 2020 and 2021, in a position to have made deviations for more than 100 billion euros. Perhaps Senator Salvini and the Lega Group did not see so badly, because they understood that we are the last ones in Europe, that we already had a difficult economic situation that dragged on and that it would be aggravated by lockdown. And they were especially aware that this is a war against an illness and disease does not tell us when it will end. Although the doctors, more than conscientious, have invited us to be cautious, they do not have a crystal ball and, therefore, cannot tell us exactly when the pandemic will end. Already then the League and its leader Salvini said that there was a need to start putting on the table immediately 100 billion euros, to then verify exactly the situations. This has not been the case and we are now, almost a year later, almost at the third pandemic wave, with lockdowns alternating with opening situations, with a further deviation of EUR 32 billion, which constitute a new debt, which we will have to face. The second point I want to focus on, following yesterday's events, is that the Commissions will no longer guarantee a majority in support of the Government. So I wonder what will happen, even if it may not interest anyone, when it is time to make decisions and if we will do as happened yesterday, back and forth with sales, while outside the disease continues, activities close, there are failures, schools maybe open and maybe not and now we also have the problem of vaccines. These are my two reflections, which I address to Minister Gualtieri and Vice Minister Misiani, who, when we asked them where exactly they wanted to place the resources, replied that they would move them and then see how they would do it. So, even then, the situation is not clear, we do not know exactly how, where, when and if they will come, because there are no reforms for 210 billion euros. It is a state of total confusion, which is fine as long as it is confined within these rooms but, when it involves the whole of Italy, it is not good. It has been said that there is no foresight (if we were foreshadowed we would not be here), but there is common sense and there is intelligence, which must never replace intelligence, which is something else. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u83	She's registered to speak with Senator Naturale. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u84	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the serious crisis resulting from the virulence of the global pandemic is causing the production set-ups to go down and, therefore, also the social protection network, with strong socio-economic criticalities, in Italy as well as throughout the world. But in our country we are seeing how the attention to these priorities is diverted from those who are undermining, in the middle of the legislature, our institutional stability: a further crisis that has a name and a surname and that, for insulting games of power, has struck in a reckless way a people on their knees; a people who struggles to face the thousand problems that they live every day and strongly demands a policy that is unconditional and constant support. In any case, in every parliamentary forum - as we heard yesterday directly from President Conte's voice in this House - a convergence between majority and opposition has been sought on the financial measures of strategic importance to address together the dramatic priorities of the grave historical period: large financial resources negotiated by President Conte and the Government in the European institutions, finally supportive. It is a very great result that cannot be separated from compact political forces, with the leader bowing to work incessantly. The Italian people can't wait, they can't bear to be playing with the real problems that you're experiencing right now, right now. The debt granted must be used efficiently and quickly, as Italy proved to be able to do with the funds of the Marshall Plan for the reconstruction of the Second World War. It is also a shock for agriculture, which is at the second Minister's change, in a legislature characterized by sudden, as unmotivated pickaxes; attempts to climb a mountain now from the right now from the left, but far too high to climb. But our President Conte, with our loyalty and our support, will succeed in carrying out a work begun and conducted with great skill. Given the facts, unfortunately, to the Ministry of Agriculture now languish important measures for the refreshment of many activities, such as the catering bonus, wanted by the former Minister, that has not yet arrived to the operators: we speak of 600 million euros of the August decree in support of the agri-food chain for the purchases made by restaurants, pizzerias, catering, canteens, agritourisms and hotels. These companies need a policy that has as its sole objective the exit from the crisis and the guarantee of adequate support with fast timing and a more streamlined and effective bureaucracy. Constant work is essential; in short, ministers and parliamentarians at work and not engaged in useless ballets. Meanwhile, the real crisis, that of the pandemic, is proving that it does not want to loosen the grip. The time to come out of it is not short and therefore it has become necessary to revisit the accounts further. We urgently need to respond to those activities most affected by the restrictions, in particular the catering, entertainment, tourism and sport sectors, new appropriations also for the protection of work to territorial administrations, the law enforcement agencies, the civil protection system, the public transport system, health care, the remodulation of the time limits for sending the accounts; measures which result in a need for more resources than is foreseen in the budget law. So here we are approving the necessary deviation. Today at the vote there is the authorization to resort to the greater indebtedness of 32 billion euros net; very delicate moment, in which also the work on the Italian recovery plan is in progress. Politics has a duty to carry out this great commitment, which the whole of Italy, cohesively, must put into practice. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u85	He's enlisted to speak Senator Perosino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u86	Mr President, we say yes to the proposal for a deviation, because there is the integration fund and there are the answers, but I would like to comment as follows. There are three recipes to deal with the debt: yours is to do debt, then you will see; meanwhile we make the President of the Republic. The second is the recipe Monti, reiterated yesterday: gloomy fiscal sadness. The recipe of the center-right: the economy is feeling, it wants to improve. No to the Financial Guard and Revenue Agency controls for two years; dry tax cuts; less bureaucracy, but really; investments; multi-year Treasury bills (BTPs) at 15 years at a rate of less than 1. What are you doing? Cashback for three billion. We all breed pussies who pay three euros with paper, but they don't distinguish a cow from a bull. [[Applause]] Get this money out of the way and put it to rest. Those pussies, then, take the citizenship income and wait for the pension. The Italian system is thus placed. We have 3,500 billion debt (2,600 public certificates); two financial management (from 40 billion plus 40); trade debts of 50 billion euro; deviations - with today - of 160; tax credits of taxpayers quantified at 50 billion; purchase of government bonds from the European Central Bank of 350-400 billion. That is the printing of money: when it ceases, it should be paid. The recovery fund is 209 billion euros and must be used only in capital account, not as a replacement, to be returned directly or indirectly, to be carried out on a step. Italy in this situation - and you know it - is not even able to design the works. Then there are other debts, in my opinion hidden, but I am investigating and next time I will report. There are bank loans, loans and trusts, amounting to 2,300 billion, which have increased as a result of state guarantees and also due to the correct extension of repayment of instalments. We have 1,900 billion deposits in surplus; someone thinks of expropriating them, but they support the loans. Shares and bonds amount to 2,300-2,500 billion (variable figures). Real estate today is in a black crisis - the truth is this - excluding certain situations. I have read in the last few days that there is a school of thought, of economists who come from the U.S. dems, from German Social Democracy and from the OECD, who say that those who are sovereigns of the currency do not fail: they can print as much as they want. Italy cannot, because it is in the euro. I do not say to go out, because it is not possible, but the recipe, not being able to print, is only one, the one I indicated at the start: to produce wealth. There's no other choice. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u87	He is registered to speak Senator Croatti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u88	Mr President, representatives of the government, kind colleagues, senators and senators, we are living very special days for our country: uncertainty, fear and anger are the feelings that prevail in citizens after a year of pain and sacrifices caused by this terrible pandemic. Added to these are those who have unscrupulously decided to bring about a government crisis at such a delicate time. Today is not the time to demolish but to build. It is time to demonstrate dignity, responsibility, respect for moral and personal principles. Moral obligation is to have as the only, indispensable objective that of working with a low head for the priorities of the Italian people, putting themselves at their service. [[Applause]] It takes night and day to keep finding solutions to the country's problems. Italy does not need those who do not want to solve them and prefers to create others at this time; it is not for this country who, in this tragic situation, has chosen its own interests and party and to play with the future of the life of Italians. As all experts have already pointed out, the contagion curve is not reassuring. We will still be forced on the road to restrictive, painful but inevitable measures. Thanks to the arrival of vaccines, we hope to be able to loosen the exceptional measures to contain the pandemic soon. The spread of the epidemic concerns the maintenance of the national health system and has called for the adoption of difficult measures by the President of the Count Council and its Executive, whom we strongly support. [[Applause]] Italians are called to fight, to resist, to face important sacrifices. In order to honour the role we play with our free hands through our choices, we must show a great sense of responsibility, humility and respect; choices that inevitably have repercussions on productive activities and economic operators, on workers and workers, on entire families, towards which we have a moral obligation to give immediate support. [[Applause]] We have to give answers to those who ask for support. To support the country more than 100 billion have been allocated: 25 billion for the decree-law care Italy, 55 for the decree-law relaunch, 25 for the decree-law August and eight billion in October; a large amount of resources put in place in a single year to avoid a serious economic depression and favor the rapid recovery. There are no government crises, personalisms and irresponsible choices that need to slow down actions in support of the nation. The priorities since the beginning of the pandemic are the protection of citizens and support for productive activities and workers. In an economic and social scenario that has no precedent in our history, at the most difficult moment in the history of the Republic, we must have the courage to make choices, without any delay. We continue with gratitude and pride to support President Conte and the government line assumed. We also do so by voting in favour of the deviation of the budget and the subsequent decree-laws. They must be sought not honors and thanks in doing the right thing, but only dignity, which can be worn and which is the only real prize to which one must strive in doing his duty. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u89	He's enlisted to speak Senator Damiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u90	Mr President, fellow senators, members of the government, the days we have been through this week have been convulsive, at such a delicate and special time for the country. For a year now, the future of our country, due to the health and economic crisis, has been uncertain. Yesterday we saw yet another vote of confidence in this House; perhaps we can say yet another vote on the photofinish - it ended in this sense - by obtaining a simple arithmetic majority for the government. It is clear that everything is constitutionally legitimate and that arithmetic is on the Government's side at the moment, but politics is certainly not. The present one is a merely apparent majority that is kept alive by therapeutic aggression, I would say. Ironically, just a few hours after yesterday's vote in this House, we are dealing with a very important measure, that of budgetary deviation, for which the majority and the government do not have sufficient numbers in favour. So the reality, after a few hours, today knocks already at the door of the government. Today we are talking about the sixth budgetary deviation in a year: 32 billion, which add up to 159 billion and make 191 billion; money - as we all know - in debt to future generations. These are interventions, those on the deviation of the budget and those that will also come for the decree-restoration laws, certainly deserving at a particular time for the country. This government today struggles to obtain consensus, even within its own majority. So the paradox today manifests itself and becomes evident. If there were no parliamentarians and center-right forces, such as the Parliamentary Group of Forza Italia, which is supporting these measures in favour of the country, in favour of the self-employed, VAT matches and traders, today the Government would not have the numbers to approve the measure under consideration and its decrees. [[Applause]] You can't run a ship in a storm like this when you don't have the tools to float it. These days you have been searching around Parliament for the so-called builders, but to build what? To build a castle of cards that in the first wind will be swept away. We need solid, stable foundations. If your aim was to safeguard health and income, instead - alas - you have failed, because we are the country that has most died for Covid, while, as far as income is concerned, the measures of the restaurants have not at all arrived to the people and, therefore, the economy continues to be penalized. By throwing the sums, it is true that we cannot deny at this moment a vote in favour of the budgetary deviation, but it is true that we cannot share the modus operandi of those who still insist on playing the violin on a sinking ship. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u91	Senator Zuliani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u92	Mr President, in the short time available on this subject, which deserves profound consideration, I will only focus on a few parts, with regard to the updating of the return plan towards the medium-term objective and the consequent budgetary deviation. In the report to the Parliament communicated on 15 January 2021, I read, in the last paragraph (---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- This report is very vague and has been written according to macroarguments. I would like to draw attention to this issue, because the League is obviously close to the Forces of Order, which need more support, including economic support, and is in favour of the commitment of resources to civil protection. However, I would not want such a writing, carried out by a left-wing government, to make this aid partially end up in the reception and immigration business. We are well aware of the Government's intention: to continue the invasion of illegal immigrants. The priority goes to the Italians. You know well, dear Government, how difficult they are and how much they need help. You often answer that there is no time. How, then, can we quickly schedule any refreshments and any measures that may be taken in favour of the Italians? I recall that, during the examination of the draft budget law, it was not possible for this House to amend and make its own contribution to the drafting of the measure. Time was sacrificed to disassemble the Salvini decrees. Therefore, I recommend and hope that a forthcoming calendarization of a decree-law or any other provisions will provide for a third reading of the Chambers, so that both the Senate and the Chamber of Deputies can contribute to the writing of an aid that should go towards the Italians. Minister Gualtieri at the hearing earlier said that as a member of the Government and the Government are patient at most. On the other hand, I say that it is Parliament that is the most patient, because it has been deported and has seen democracy sacrificed, that since you are in the government it is no longer being carried forward. You fill the mouth of this democracy, which is actually not there. I hope that things can change with the next measure. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u93	Senator Corrado is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u94	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, we need another budgetary deviation for a considerable amount because we need new refreshments. It is necessary to ensure that economic operators, the productive sectors and the categories of citizens in need of further liquidity injection and I am convinced that Government and Parliament will continue to support the country's efforts, bent by the pandemic, but above all uncertain in the face of a future that has become difficult to imagine. The future is not, however, made exclusively of things. Therefore, even if the word "culture" does not even appear in the report to the Council of Ministers on this latter deviation, it is culture that I want to speak in the few minutes available and the refreshments that this sector needs which, in addition to the irreducible spiritual value, also possesses a material and - contrary to what current distorted and opportunistic readings say - is literally agonizing. In the National Recovery and Resilience Plan (PNRR) 8 billion is devoted to culture: 2.7 billion will go to cultural heritage for the Next Generation EU; 2.4 billion to trinome smaller sites, rural areas and outskirts; 2.9 tourism and culture 4.0. It is not enough - let me say this - and they are not going where it is most necessary and urgent. Digitalization, in fact, is not a panacea and the regeneration of villages and suburbs does not guarantee the functioning of the network, archaeological areas, museums, archives and libraries, nor does it save historical centers and historical building in general. The eight billion is not enough for tourism and it is not enough for culture, which has once again been chained to tourism, without understanding that reducing it to that alone is a shortsighted vision based on the absence of those budgets that, if they existed, would certify the failure to manage our cultural heritage economically. Think that even in Pompeii, which is also the stage of world archaeology, director Osanna certifies that there is no general tariff that sets the amount to be paid for the concessions of use for photographs, movies and exhibitions. This is because at national level there is no legal and economic regulation in this regard outside the general provisions of the Urban Code, which date back to 2004. While it remains misunderstood and dissatisfied with the extreme need for investments that that sector needs in order not to collapse definitively, the idea of cultural assets as exclusively instrumental and commercial goods to be sold to the highest bidder instead of managing them with care. It is the commodification of culture - and not culture - that is inseparable from tourism. It is from the distorted perspective of the market that cultural goods are expendable and sacrificed today by the same administration that the Constitution calls to protect and enhance the entire and enormous Italian artistic and landscape heritage of which we are joint heirs, together with the rest of living humanity and, above all, future generations, and therefore also guardians. To devour those goods is an incentive tourism still in the pre-Covid perspective, hoping that it can return to consume the cities of art, with millions of hasty adventurers hungry for food and emotions, trained to react to the conditioning stimuli of the clamorous - which resounding is not - of the mysterious - that mysterious is not - and of the unrepeatable, which however repeats itself to command for the lucky customers. The fact is that it is difficult even in Parliament and the Government, whatever it may be, to recognize centrality to knowledge and strategic value to culture. Is this also why, among the five senators who last week in the Assembly of Members of the Movimento 5 Stars entrusted a colleague of the House with the task of expressing a shared position calling for a change of pace to the movement, four are members of the Committee on Culture? I add that they are - we are - all four women. This is also significant. It would be a crime to ignore the alarm bell that goes crazy from that world long before the pandemic starts. It is no coincidence that today it reproaches the Movimento for having marched, in 2016 along with those who opposed the "Franceschini system" of asset management, and then to make it an accomplice. It would also be a crime to continue to discourage education, i.e. to invest in ignorance - and I am talking about school and university - and to fuel the irresponsible rhetoric of beauty that will save the world. Beauty saves the world only if it produces new beauty. Similarly, the Republic promotes the development of culture - I am referring to Article 9 - for no other reason than because it generates a new culture. The NRP's eight billion are welcome, but above all, they are well placed to determine how much culture and what initiatives should be financed. We welcome the reaffirmation of the principles in the name of which these resources are provided, instruments for achieving a higher aim. Shall we call it beauty? Be that as it may, but let's remember that I don't... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u95	Senator Corrado, the Presidency authorizes you to hand over the remainder of your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u96	He's enlisted to speak Senator Beginini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u97	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, once again this House is preparing to authorise an important budgetary deviation. With today's 32 billion we reach 155 billion, an impressive figure, however, commensurate with the response that we are called to give the country at such a difficult time. Even today the debate between us and in the country is undoubtedly affected by the political crisis we are experiencing, but on these issues - Mr President, ladies and gentlemen - on the future of the country and of future generations there is no political crisis that holds. Faced with these choices each of us is called to the highest sense of responsibility. Of course, we will have to accompany this responsibility with the mutual ability to listen and make this place become not only a space in which each person places his/her own must, but where everyone listens to the positions of others. That is why - and I am addressing the Government - I would like you to feel the responsibility that this House and Parliament are once again investing in. We are deciding to use resources that we do not have, doing more debt; a debt that will weigh enormously on the new generations, but that we are called to do to respond to the many requests that come from citizens, the continuous requests for help, support, the emergency and the need to show that the state is there, especially in difficult times. We are talking about a debt that is not the good debt that the former President of the ECB, Mario Draghi, has asked us to pay attention to. This is why Italy Viva in recent months has always insisted that we go to touch the central hub of growth for our country, so that the large debt that we are producing today to give answers to the immediate needs of citizens can be repaid with greater growth. The two keys that Italy Viva has long claimed to be necessary in order to bring the country to a stable and sustainable growth are those of the reform of the Irpef and the strategic use of the resources of the recovery plan; therefore a use of resources distributed not on so many old projects in the drawers, but on an idea of development of the Country that is the result of a vision that allows to have a great industrial reform of our nation. The resources of this deviation will serve - as the Government has indicated - for new interventions to protect the job, for the system of public transport and for the Forces of the order. Additional appropriations are provided for the health sector, including in relation to the needs related to the purchase, logistics of vaccines and anti-Covid medicines. With regard to support for businesses, Italy Viva calls for overcoming the logic of the Ateco codes and introducing a mechanism for equalization, with the reimbursement of part of the fixed costs, with risistori also to the self-employed and the free professionals, paying attention to those sectors - that of tourism, the mountain one, especially with regard to winter tourism - that turn out to be greatly crushed in this crisis. It is also clear that we will be called upon to manage an important vaccination campaign, once again facing the extraordinary and emerging aspects of the pandemic. That is precisely why, ladies and gentlemen, we have repeatedly stressed the need to open a serious debate in this House not only on the recovery fund, but in general on the future of our country; a frank and not ideological debate also on an instrument such as the European Stability Mechanism (ESM), which would allow us to rely on more resources for our health system, while paying less interest and freeing additional resources for other sectors, in order to support businesses and families. Precisely by referring to what I said at the beginning, namely that we are not just talking about ourselves in this House, but we are listening and discussing the reasons why we are saying yes or no, I still have the hope that there will be a chance of overcoming the crisis we are experiencing, that we will face it and that we will open a serious and real debate, perhaps even harsh, which takes into account the respect of the positions of each and the need to sum up a common position. The report shows that the government has also predicted that some of the 32 billion that we are about to find with this deviation will be used to support decentralised government levels and the system of autonomy. Here, on the point I think we must work to ensure that in the coming months we can put the institutional levels closest to the citizens in a position to respond to the needs of the latter. Look: with the unblocking of layoffs and the increasing commercial difficulties, the artisans and the self-employed, the suffering and the social crisis will manifest themselves in our cities in a more clean and raw way. I also think about what the eviction release will produce. The first to have to respond to this crisis will be the first citizens, with their majorities made up of city councillors, helped by their councillors. These people - as the mayor knows well in this House - are asking for answers and help every day and personally. I say this clearly: let us ensure that those institutions are able to cope with the difficulties that will come. Let's not leave them alone, let's give them the opportunity to give concrete answers to those needs as well. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u98	Senator Calandrini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u99	Mr President, we are here today to vote on the fifth budgetary deviation. We add and add up another 32 billion public debt that will pay for future generations, that will have as mortgage on their future 132 billion euros; the first 100 approved until last month and the 32 that we approve today - through the authorization that certainly House and Senate will give - that we go to add to the 40 billion that we have just approved through the budget law of December 2020. Unfortunately, the precedents do not lay in favour of the Government, today, in this House, practically absent from its seats; the Government is now weaker than ever, because yesterday it obtained not the confidence it expected, but only a relative majority, which was nothing more than a bunch of parliamentarians, who will certainly present the bill to you when there will be 32 billion to spend. One question is therefore imperative at this time: with what serenity and with what spirit of mind are we here today to vote for the new deviation? There is only one word: responsibility. The 32 billion, together with the 209 billion of the recovery fund, have in these days become commodities of exchange, traded with what you call today the builders, the managers, and that until yesterday for you were the turncoats. Here we are at this shabby sale that has occurred these days and that has been done on the skin of Italians, we are not. Your way of spending the resources of the Italians has proved fallacious, has made water all these months and we do not want to go any further, also because, Mr President, the problem is not the 32 billion, but the refreshments, which are insufficient crumbs, as the Government well knows, for all the activities that you have closed by decree in this last year. Today we have Mr Gualtieri, at the hearing we held in the Budget Committee, who confirmed that we also need a change of pace with regard to these sums to compensate Italian taxpayers. However, we have told him that time has now expired because after this further deviation he has clearly told us that there will be no more. I would also like to stress the fundamental inconsistency that you have because, while today you are asking us to allow a further deviation of 32 billion, in two weeks, i.e. no later than 31 January, the Revenue Agency will share with more than 30 million accounting records, so with one hand given and with the other take and remove these crumbs that we are giving to Italian taxpayers today. We are not like some distinguished colleagues who have told us in this House that the state should encourage the closure of many activities. On the other hand, we think that every enterprise deserves to live in its own light, especially if it has been your unholy decisions that have come down. You have searched for leaders and anointers everywhere, in gyms, restaurants, bars, cinemas, on the ski slopes; yet, given to the hand, our nation unfortunately has the greatest number of deaths and contagions. Then we of Brothers of Italy say that the enterprises must be helped; however these deviations will not be so effective, because, as we have always said, it is not giving bonuses, tips, prebende and therefore a few thousand euros on loan lost that you will make live the many activities that in this last year you have reduced to exhaustion. You know the proposals we made. Our leader Giorgia Meloni said in a thousand ways that it was necessary to change path, path and attitude, but you have clearly always been deaf in listening to our proposals that I wish to remember. We have said that it is not the Ateco codes that give rise to a reduction in turnover, because it has been shown that the supply of refreshments represents 7% of the firm's fixed costs. For us as Brothers of Italy, therefore, you have failed as a Government. You must take note of this and not continue to be attached to your seats, because the real leaders are us of Brothers of Italy, who for months, inside and outside this Parliament, make proposals that this Government has never wanted to listen. That is why we do not want to be responsible (I have used this word several times in my speech) to you, but to the nation that certainly does not identify with you and to which today you take away the right to vote in free elections. Therefore, in the name of this responsibility we ask you to step aside, not to waste any more time and to bring the country to the elections, to have a strong, cohesive, center-right government that has the numbers and the consents to govern this nation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u100	He's enlisted to speak Senator D'Alfonso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u101	Mr President, I would like to thank my colleagues who have spoken before me for making my contribution easier. After yesterday's day, which I had no difficulty defining artificial, we have this day that has more to do with the future of Italy because it is aimed at having availability of resources so that the wheel of the economy of the country starts to turn again. The deviation from the numbers covered by the budget documents serves to make sure that we can make investments with good debt, according to the separate investment that has been reported to us and cultivated, for example, from the experience of Mario Draghi and Delors. There are two ways of thinking about the future: engaging the resources that will be there in the future looking to the past, or looking at the time when, then, the opportunities will affect the younger generations. We are working to ensure that Italy finds its way back to the future, ensuring that the thousands of activities in the different sectors of work and the economy find cover, tools and possibilities to recommence with confidence in what has been the source of their income. Think about the bars, restaurants, hotel activities and those digital activity interstices that support our national and international tourist location. We have put over 100 billion euros into play with the measures of the so-called ristori decrees 1, 2, 3 and 4. We used the heading of the Ateco code, the classification, which listed the activities as they were known by the vigilant ministries and those who had to do with economic promotion. Now comes the turn of supporting those activities that do not have the heading of the Ateco codes, that is the supply chains, that are then the truth of the economy. What were we supposed to do with that? We have asked and are producing additional financial agibility and flexibility to have the necessary necessities to further assist these activities. If the state budget were not to be flexible in the face of the breakdown of civilizations and cyclical disruptions in the economy, we would have a fetish budget, a totem budget. Fortunately, the budget has the opportunity to make use of the crisis, recovering margins of mobility, flexibility and fulfillment that will allow individual sectors of activity to start over. This is also true of the relationship with the Community support framework: EUR 32 billion will be placed in the real economy. What is Parliament's job? Do not organize the conflict policy, which organizes visibility at all costs, of Narciso, of the aesthetics of saying or of the search for the aesthetics of being there. Instead, it is necessary to monitor and ensure that all the elements of reality reach standardization and that no one is excluded, because in these early stages we have unintentionally had sectors marked by exclusion. The complaints of the minor sectors of crafts and commerce and of those interstices of the tourist location and travel agencies give us loads of work. We must ensure that the administrative machinery is prompt and goes beyond what is documentary fasciculation, crossing the data and enhancing the interoperability of the data that Sogei has. It is not possible that in 2021 we still reason without enhancing the knowledge we have. I quote a fact. At the time of the Jubilee with high density participated that engaged all levels of the order, in 2000, it was possible, with the data we had, to know exactly who would arrive in Rome that day, with what level of deviance - let's say so - can be estimated in advance. So the data is there to make the standardization machine fit perfectly to the reality of the economy. On this, we must dare more, demand more, carry out, organize flexibility, ensuring that all reality enters the norm, that all economic reality finds cover, support and support. Well the measure concerning, for example, local self-governments, a measure deriving from the €32 billion. Well resources related to successful vaccination. The vaccine is the responsibility of the scientific community; vaccination is the responsibility of the institutional system and the organization of the territorial sanitary autonomy. We need to ensure that vaccination means sufficient vaccinationrs; we need to make sure that it also takes a cultural dimension of conviction: vaccination serves and helps. It is not only a question of substantial financial resources at this point, but it is necessary to ensure that the pandemic also finds a scientific and health capacity to respond to each one's awareness. The measures are significant, including those related to the recovery plan, because it contains measures that will help the territories to share in the modernisation, digital energy transition, the transition to a future that will bring more rights and opportunities. What does politics do about this? Does it act as a spectator or organize monitoring, address, reorder and recovery of non-expensive resources, with a new ranking of priorities because of what the reality will impose on us from time to time? We must, however, keep at bay the fetish of the political struggle at all costs, even when the order would require unity, unity and a sense of responsibility. But how do we, at a time when national and international correspond, for the quality of fear, concern and fear, to make it divide a nation state, to divide a ruling class community, having the urgency of problems, the availability of resources and the expectation of citizenship that decisions will happen. On this yesterday Parliament's overall debate was not up to the level. We must make sure that the reasons for urgency and the reasons for the role of each of us are recovered. Of course, my contribution is to make everyone vote in favour of the deviation and we constitute ourselves as a community that addresses and brings as much reality as possible within the places of the decision. Mr President, I have made the contribution of the Democratic Party in the direction of proper reflection. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u102	Senator Mallegni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u103	Mr President, just now I was almost physically raped by my Group President, because today, frankly, voting on this political bias is embarrassing. In fact, it is clear that my President did not physically rape me, but with the words, and together we decided that it was right for me to be "violent" in the exclusive interests of businesses and families. Dear friends, I have done two counts: right now, as the Forza Italia Group, we are more than 20 people (out of 50); you, out of 156, are more or less 20 in the Chamber. Today we are talking about a deviation of EUR 32 billion and you are not even in this House. [[Applause]] Good thing Deputy Minister Misiani showed up. The government is absent, while when it comes to safeguarding the position, all present one after the other; indeed, we also bring someone with Covid! You tried, but you couldn't do it yesterday, but you tried. Today we are talking about the real interest of the nation - 32 billion euros that you will spend badly, as usual, as you did with the other 120 billion that you electrocuted in nine months of absolute, total inability of government - there is no one. [[Applause]] I know that because you are not there: because you are ashamed to say that you are pushing us another 32 billion that will be a negative backpack on the shoulders of future generations. And yet, you don't pay for this, keep giving it to you with a goddamn reason. Thanks to my colleague Dal Mas, who is an attentive man, I went to recover the intervention of my colleague Primo Di Nicola who, referring to Senator Bellanova - remembering Macaluso - called her a second-row politician who, in order to gain positions of power that are not deserved, exploits the qualification of a laborer. Well, you must also be ashamed of what you think, not just what you say. [[Applause]] And down, dry beating every day. Yesterday, frankly, during the debate - I don't hide - I sent a little message WhatsApp to the head of Italia Viva and I wrote to him: But after everything they said to you today in the Chamber, do you abstain? But where do you have dignity? You have to send them home straight like a missile! Yesterday, 156 votes against and 156 votes in favour would have meant sending that gentleman home at 6.30 p.m. to the Quirinale, but he had to go up there last night to resign from office as President of the Council of Ministers. [[Applause]] , and this afternoon should have been here to tell us that the 32 billion will be spent in a certain way, supported in another way and reimbursed differently, otherwise it is shameful; this kind of attitude is shameful. [[Applause]] Therefore, I have been convinced and I will vote in favour of the deviation; but we do so, as Forza Italia, only in the interest of families and businesses and we will carefully monitor how you will spend and invest this money. For now, if I were you, I'd be ashamed. For the rest, we'll think about it later. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u104	Senator Ferrero is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u105	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, we are twenty days away from the budget law and we are already at the first deviation; not a slight deviation, but a deviation that is another budget law: 32 billion. It is 32 billion that the Italian economy needs, but will they really be used to give impetus and help to the productive and social fabric of our country? I hope that this new debt will really benefit our economy. The brief description of the Government's intentions, contained in the report, provides for new appropriations to protect work - and that is all right - the integration fund, support for local self-government and resources for civil protection and law enforcement, health care and public transport. Unfortunately, only at the bottom of the list do we find the temporal remodulation of the sending of the debitory folders, one of the battles we hold to and, only as a last point, we cite a series of measures in favor of the enterprises. We know that, in reality, the economy is exhausted, we are now suffering from debt and closure, there is a liquidity crisis for families and we are psychologically ill. [[Applause. Comments]] We are witnessing the destruction of the social fabric of small and medium-sized commercial activities, of accommodation and sports activities, raised by sacrifices and by real work - thirteen hours a day - by owners and employees. The operators of tourism, catering, sport and the mountains are asking to be heard. They have solutions, they have adapted their structures to the demand for safety dictated by the health crisis and they do not even want the refreshers, who especially for medium and large activities will always be inadequate, but they ask to be able to work safely. The League does not shy away from its responsibilities and wants these categories to survive, and then recover. We therefore welcome compensation and support measures, but we also need common sense measures. Even from the fiscal point of view, if you don't want to pick up the appeal of the League, which has always said so, you receive at least that of the director of the Revenue Agency, Ruffini, who proposed, a few days ago, to: "cancelle old debitory folders for a simpler tax. == [[Applause]] Listen to the anger and discomfort of economic operators and begin to admit even the mistakes of your modus operandi, which lacks a concrete vision. You can't tell a restaurant, which is shopping for perishable products, to close overnight. We cannot tell the administrators of sports facilities to adapt to safety protocols and then not let them open, not to mention that sport also means psychophysical well-being. In fact, there is a tremendous increase in psychological problems, of which no one or few are talking and suicides are increasing: we know that, but in the newspapers there is almost no mention. We live in here, but out of here the real world is going through an unprecedented crisis. I have many doubts about the real use of this EUR 32 billion. In the Budget Committee we asked for an estimate of how these money will be divided, Vice-Minister Misiani answered me frankly and I want him to be put to the record here too. The Deputy Minister has given us an estimate of two thirds of the total amount, which will be in favour of the economic fabric and businesses. I also recall the commitment made at the last deviation of 2020, amounting to EUR 8 billion, to exceed the Ateco codes, which will also be taken up in today's motion for a resolution, the reimbursement of fixed costs, the refreshments to self-employed workers and the self-employed, and I also remember the small property owners. I will end with one final appeal... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u106	Senator Ferrero, I remind you that you can deliver the full text of your speech, so that it is attached to today's report. He's enlisted to speak Senator Lanzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u107	Mr President, I begin my speech with thanks for all those who, with a high sense of the institutions, of justice and consideration for the future of the country, intended to vote yesterday to continue a path of which today's vote is only a further important step. Living in constant contradiction with one's reason is morally intolerable. The pushed strategy, the subterfuge, the trick often and willingly are only the easiest way to the slavery of freedom. We are at the paradox that today it will seem quite normal for some colleagues to vote on yet another budgetary deviation, just as they voted on the extension of the emergency, when, at the same time, they put distinctions on the recovery fund and even endorsed the withdrawal of two ministers from the government on the basis of presumptuous speeches. While someone takes his place before the common good, we have confirmed without delay his confidence in this Government, capable of implementing emerging policies and at the same time of introducing broader measures, which promote an idea of a society based on social justice and inclusion. There are so many challenges that we have overcome, so many that await us when we come out of this crisis and we will have to rethink our everyday life and imagine a new model of sociality. In fact, the current crisis is not only health; it is a social and economic crisis, but it is also a great opportunity to reflect on our system and our relations. Our future depends on what tools we will be able to put on the field for those who have been on their knees because of the lack of work, the loss of loved ones or the failure of that social fabric whose protection we do not have for a single moment ceased to work. We are aware of this; those who have suspended their support for the Government do not believe. If this seems normal to you, not to me and not to the Italians. [[Applause]] But if we go into detail to see who voted in favour of all the previous budgetary deviations approved by Parliament, we see as well as all of you who are sitting among the opposition benches, you agreed on the need to protect the Italian economy and companies in crisis, providing economic support for this plan. So how does it work? Senator Mallegni, is the responsibility alternating current? When a few seconds ago I was talking about an attitude at the edge of the lunatic, almost voted for schizophrenia, by a former government partner, I can certainly extend this reasoning also to the opposition. What sense does it make today to agree on the need for an additional 32 billion to support the many sectors in difficulty, when then, if you have to vote on a budget law, you punctually deny the confidence to the government from which you do not feel represented? The budget law was also part of the recovery plan. I am sure that we all agree, in this House, on the need to allocate as much money as possible. A phase like that contingent, however, would like unity in everyday work. But be careful: you have to stop trying every step of the way to this government. Those who evoke the arrival of a so-called national government do so only for their own gain, certainly not for the good of the Italians. All this is the work of those who have opened a sensible crisis, wanted not already by what was called the Telemaco scraper, who returns to Ithaca to hunt for the usurpers of the island; those who tried to bring us back to the polls, in reality, tried to usurp a role, that of President Count, who demonstrated his rigor ignoring blackmail and flattery. Today, the Government is asking for permission for a deviation of an additional 32 billion, over the five deviations already authorized last year: six major interventions to reach the resources necessary to face the crisis. No one has to be left behind and so, if necessary, we will be able to assess further deviations in the future. I really hope, however, that with the spring and the progress of the vaccination plan, the pandemic can be defeated and we can return to normal for all economic and productive sectors. Going back to today's theme, I must stress that the Movimento 5 Stars has always been at the forefront to provide as much support as possible to all categories: today's billions will serve to refinance the integration fund for the coming months; they will be essential oxygen for the whole Horeca sector (Hotels, restaurants, bars), for the winter tourism sector, for the entertainment sector, for cinemas and theatres, in short, for all the colors to which we are still asking for important sacrifices. Of course these billions will also benefit the school, a school finally returned to the presence (it was time), even if not with full time, but this is the emblem of the return to a partial normality. The work of this Parliament does not end with the approval of today's deviation and it is necessary to stabilize the majority quickly. Count has and will have our trust, because he has not put his ego before the good of the country. The Conte government has reset individualities, banned protagonists, created a cohesive team that has had as unique and only objective to get us out of this health, economic and social crisis. Who, on the other hand, does not have this sense of state, perhaps because it is clouded by personal aims never endured, lives of conflict and closes the doors to the cries of help of the people. Yesterday's vote showed that even in the group that wanted the crisis broke the principle of reality. Fortunately not everyone is ready to throw Italy into the wind. Whoever wanted the crisis should go like Icarus towards his sun and finally separate his bow from that of the nation. We go forward without fear and, as my mother often says, bad not to do, fear not to have. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u108	The debate is closed. I note that the following motions for resolutions have been tabled: No 1 (text 2), Senators Marcucci, Licheri, De Petris and Steger, No 2, Senator Pharaoh and other Senators, and No 3, Senators Romeo, Ciriani, Bernini and Romani, whose texts are distributed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u109	Mr President, just a few minutes to recall the speeches that have been made and the proposals that have been made, both by the majority and by the opposition, on the use of these resources and perhaps even others that will have to be put in place to give concrete answers to those who unfortunately cannot work today because of the restrictions and the pandemic crisis. I would therefore like to thank all those who have spoken, both the majority and the opposition. The Natural Senator, for example, reminded us to invest and protect more agriculture and agricultural work. Senator Perosino reminded us that we are creating a lot of debt but that, at the same time, we also have a lot of accumulated wealth (and on this issue I would like to make a reflection in closing). Senator Damiani also said that we are increasing the debt very much and that we are spending the money in a less rational way (sorry if I don't use his own words); unfortunately, we are doing interventions that serve citizens and businesses, who need them. It will therefore be an unrational way, it looks like money thrown into the wind, but they are actually addressed to people who really need it. I also respond to my colleague, Mr Calandrini, always on the use of resources: we will do everything possible to make the way in which they will be used as effective as possible. I think it's an idea that the government is carrying out, that will really give concreteness. Mr D'Alfonso reminded us that we need to make public administration more efficient and I agree, also because, with the resources of the recovery fund, we will do everything possible to improve every procedure and every administrative process. Senator Corrado reminded us to protect our artistic heritage, noting that unfortunately in the recovery plan the resources that we will go to allocate will be very few and that we must do much more. I really think that this issue should be raised loudly in this House. Mr President, I would like to add a few personal comments, recalling what Mr Perosino said earlier. We certainly have a big debt, which is increasing, and at the same time we still have a lot of wealth that is being accumulated by families that are not spending. We must remember this and it is a very delicate thing to deal with, because we can often face criticism. We have also been advised to ensure that resources are used in the best possible way to stimulate and increase business, business activities, work. In my view, we should really reflect on the fact that, in view of the increase in debt, it would be useful to find formulas in order to be able to exploit this new wealth accumulated by families but also by companies. In fact, if we look at the data of the Bank of Italy, we realize that there are more than 140 billion euros of new savings. In my opinion, we should really concentrate, all together, and find the most suitable and safest formula to make sure that this savings can have an outlet in creating new productive resources, new activities. This is really something we should all do together. At the same time we must remember the increase in public debt: we have reached 155 billion more for the appropriations, for the rest and for the workers. However, it is not sums that the State has spent on a non-spending review, on inefficiency or ineffectiveness in processes; no, it is money that we have spent because families need to move forward. This increase in debt must also be reflected at European level, so not only in Italy but also in other countries, in my opinion. I therefore ask the Government and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance to do everything possible to ensure that this reflection is brought to the European institutional fora, and in this case too there is a solution compatible with our needs in order to try to make our public debt manageable and sustainable, especially for the part related to the pandemic crisis. Having said that, with regard to the opinion on the motions for resolutions tabled, I believe that the resolutions are all to be examined and I call on the Government to do so, with particular reference to the majority opinion, which I think has also taken a number of cues from the proposals of the oppositions.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u110	I would ask the representative of the Government to give an opinion on the motions for resolutions tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u111	Mr President, on behalf of the Government, I would like to thank the majority and opposition groups, the senators and senators who have spoken in today's debate. I would like to thank and express my appreciation for the content and tone of the debate. The deviation we are about to vote on, the 32 billion for which the Government has asked Parliament for permission, is an important act. It is no coincidence that the Constitution prescribes a majority of members, not a simple majority, for the approval of budgetary deviations. These 32 billion represent additional debt that will fall on the future generations of our country. This gives us an important responsibility and the duty to make the best use of these resources to help families, workers and businesses in our country, which are facing a very difficult situation of health, economic and social emergency. I believe that the unanimous vote of the Senate towards this request can be a very important signal, a signal of unity and common work and shared in the general interest of the country towards the Italian national community. On the basis of these considerations, I support the motion for a resolution No 1 (text 2), signed by Senators Marcucci, Licheri, De Petris and Steger. I call for the withdrawal of motion for a resolution No 2, first signed by Senator Pharaoh, and motion for a resolution No 3 signed by Senators Romeo, Ciriani, Bernini and Romani.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u112	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u113	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u114	Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, the Government gave a favourable opinion on motion for a resolution No 1 (text 2). But I note that the motion for a resolution No 2, in its part, is identical, even in commas and in points, to the motion for a resolution No 1 (text 2). Then we should also vote in favour of the motion for a resolution No 2, after which they will be voted together or absorbed. It makes no sense to request the withdrawal of an identical motion for a resolution in the system to the one on which the opinion was favourable. It is true that the motion for a resolution is voted on as a whole, but the premises are one thing and the arrangements are another. In this case, too, the punctuation is identical, Deputy Minister Misiani, so I do not believe that he can invite Senator Pharaoh to withdraw a motion for a resolution identical to that on which he expressed a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u115	I take note of what Senator Calderoli said. However, when we come to discuss that motion for a resolution, we will give the floor to Senator Pharaoh, who will have to tell us what he thinks about this and what the government thinks.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u116	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u117	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u118	CONZACTS (IV-PSI). Mr President, as far as we are concerned, the text 2 of motion for a resolution No 1 has already absorbed substantial parts of our motion for a resolution. So we agree on the withdrawal and then we will say that we agree on the vote on text 2 of motion for a resolution No 1.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u119	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u121	Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, in order to understand something, I now find that motion for a resolution No 2 has changed; it should usually be written down in text No 2. If the motion for a resolution No 1 has also changed, we would like to have the corresponding text 2.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u122	The first version had never been filed. To me they deposited only the second. Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). No, Mr President, I took it from the Presidency. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. They never gave it to me. They told me they had to replace her, so they just backed her up to verify... Supported, President?! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. But excuse me, the Presidency formally has the motion for a resolution No 2, which I have here now, where it says 'allows the Government (...) to implement what is stated in the report referred to in the preamble, and the Presidency is formally presented with this, I must consider this and I cannot consider any more. Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). You want to distribute it, because we too can know what we are voting for? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If it was distributed, I don't know. Was the other one distributed as well? They say no. This has been distributed exclusively.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u123	Mr President, I have four versions. I don't know if anyone is falsifying the resolutions.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u124	I ask the Secretariat, because, if the Administration hands this over to me on the Presidency table and I ask the government representative to give me an opinion on the three motions for resolutions I have in hand - and I understand, from the Secretary General, that these three have been distributed exclusively, it is clear that I cannot be aware of a fourth one, that I do not have and that I am told that I have not been distributed. There must be clarity between us, because I have no difficulty in saying whether this is a text 2.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u125	Mr President, at this point I realize that I am clearly faced with a fake. But the problem is that the signatures are authentic or, at least, they are identical both on the first and the second versions.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u126	I repeat that it was distributed, so I am told, only the second. And if only the second is distributed, this means that there is a correspondence between what is given to the Presidency and what has been officially and formally distributed in this House. Period. That is why I only take these three motions for resolutions into account; that is all I can do. If there's a second one, it means there was a first one. [[No comment]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is The [[no comment]] You don't owe it to me. And I'm surprised, because you're Vice President and you should be familiar with the dynamics of the presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u127	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u128	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u129	Mr MISIANI, Deputy Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance. Mr President, I would just like to say, for the benefit of the senator and vice-president, Mr Calderoli, that the Government's favourable opinion is on the text 2 of motion for a resolution No 1, which also reflects the comparison and sharing between all the groups represented in this House - I would like to stress this - and includes, in particular, the content of the motion for a resolution tabled by Senator Faraone. I believe it is politically important that the resolution on which the Government expresses its favourable opinion reflects in its content a comparison that goes beyond the scope of the majority.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u130	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u131	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u132	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u133	STEGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, of course, our Group will vote in favour of the new budgetary deviation. Unfortunately, we think that this will not be the last and that in the coming months it will take further action, because the pandemic is not over at all and, as the Parliamentary Budget Office has pointed out, there will hardly be a 6% rebound imagined last summer. I hope I am wrong, because the legacy we risk leaving on the shoulders of the next generations is very heavy. For this reason, we must spend these resources very carefully to help workers and businesses to face the current very difficult transition and we must think, when these resources are no longer there, also about how to do so that the economic crisis does not soon turn into a social one. First of all, the criterion of the Ateco codes must be exceeded with that of the loss of turnover, following the example of the other European countries. The reference time base must be the calendar year and not the semester, because only then will we not leave out the companies and seasonal workers. In particular, as announced by Minister Boccia, the next decree-restoration laws must have at the top of the priorities the workers and the mountain enterprises, who were the hardest hit by the last DPCM, because the winter season could not even begin. With this in mind, the New Social Employment Insurance (Naspi) and unemployment for employees (Dis-Coll) should be refinanced retroactively from last November, so as not to exclude all seasonal workers from this aid package. It is necessary not only to extend those tax obligations which are due to expire on 31 January, but also to start the path towards a new fiscal peace, with a series of interventions which provide for the most dramatically affected categories a real fiscal white year and the possibility of a new balance and withdrawal, beginning with small disputes. You need an eye for freelancers. With the last ristori decree and the budget law, measures have been introduced in a certain historical sense, such as social shock absorbers for a category of workers who were completely without them. The effort that must be made at this stage is always to find a balance between aid and instruments that stimulate restart. For example, the criteria for access to and duration of the minimum system could be revised on VAT consignments, as well as those for membership of the flat-rate scheme. Above all, we need a strong investment on all the instruments that are able to act as an economic multiplier. It has been discussed extensively these days, so I am just thinking: at the end of this year the debt-to-GDP ratio will go over 160 percent, with 25 points more than the pre-pandemic period. We cannot imagine supporting it with the growth trends that Italy has experienced in the last twenty years and that have seen it taillight in the West. That is why we must lay the foundations for a country that, after the emergency and the European aid season, is able to grow at the levels of the rest of Europe. What I want to say is that Italy most of all needs a recovery plan as a tool for the modernization and competitiveness of its productive fabric. It's not an important game; it's a real game of life. But it's not just the recovery projects that we have to look at. Positive economic dynamics can also be fostered by simple reforms that do not require substantial economic investment. I am thinking, as always, of bureaucratic simplification and of those procedures that have never, as in recent months, shown how much they represent an obstacle and a problem. Without a thorough review of the procurement code, for example, we will never be able to implement recovery projects, losing resources that are our chance to relaunch the system. I am thinking of the reform of justice, but also of all the other speeches that we are going to write this year. Any help cannot be an end in itself, but it must indicate a perspective of restart, because we must not only resist, we must return to existence and to create development. To conclude, Mr President, the effort and effort that awaits us is very great. There are so many and all the important issues that we must deal with. That is why we voted yesterday against a government crisis that the country cannot afford today. Time, never as it is today, is not a secondary variable: just think of the deadlines at the end of January. If this crisis continues, we risk being late on a number of issues - and here is the whole game on recovery - because there is the situation of the spread of the virus that must be looked at with great attention, given the vaccination campaign on which not a single minute can be lost. This is the time for maximum commitment, in which a strong and stable majority is needed, to be built by rediscovering the reasons for dialogue with those who have been there and finding ways with those who have always recognized themselves in the values of a united and united Europe, with the confrontation and sense of responsibility on the part of all. I therefore announce the vote in favour of the Group for Autonomies (SVP-PATT, UV) at the budgetary deviation. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u134	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u135	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u136	CONZACTS (IV-PSI). Mr President, we are debating today the report with which the Commission is asking Parliament for permission to update public finance objectives. It is a report that must be adopted by an absolute majority of votes, which yesterday's vote in the Senate did not hand over to the Commission, because the political crisis has not yet found a point of resolution. However, in the expectation that this point of resolution will be found, with a view to a parliamentary pact, a stronger and more cohesive political majority, as well as a greater solidity of the Government, we confirm the openness and willingness to dialogue expressed yesterday with abstention and of course we are preparing to vote in favour of the resolution that as Italy Viva we have presented, sharing it with the majority forces and also with those of opposition. The authorization we are about to vote will of course be used to finance the new measures - decree ristori 5, the so-called Christmas decree and therefore the intervention for the whole mountain sector - but also to confirm a Europeanist vocation, because this deviation takes place thanks to a European regulatory framework that allows us, for a year now, to implement deviations and to work towards an expansionary policy that can support the economic fabric and all social and health measures. In this spirit, therefore, we are about to vote in favour of the budgetary deviation for an additional 32 billion from 2021. It is the sixth deviation that we have voted since the beginning of the pandemic period, which brings the additional net debt to 140 billion, of which we feel the weight and responsibility, because they have served, yes, to finance very important measures contained in the so-called decrees care Italy, ristori and August, as well as in the budget law, but we also feel the weight of the situation of the economic framework and public finance; it is very heavy for us that we are approving it and it will be even more so for those who will come after us. The burden on additional debt and, unfortunately, on previous debt is also very important. It is true that it is tempered by the monetary policy of the European Central Bank, but it is also true that over 60 billion annual interest rates on debt compared to a stock that has exceeded 2,600 billion and the GDP debt ratio of 158% can only make us pay great attention to the reliability of the return to the medium-term objective. In this respect, I would like to say that it is particularly important that we focus on growth and GDP. While it is true that at this moment all economic policy is closely linked with equal effects and contrary to the attitude that has been decided to adopt by favouring the health and protection of individuals, it is also true that this tells us that we have only one way to pursue so that our GDP and our growth can return to being able to support the enormous debt that we have borne to help Italy. This only way is the vaccination plan. I know it is not an economic policy, but it is closely linked to it. The responsibility that invests us to do well and to do immediately, to do well in the supply and the administrations and to do everything possible for the supply to be timely and fast is closely connected to our ability to get out economically from what otherwise can become only a loop in negative. These additional 32 billion must also be read in this light. We need to use the additional resources to support growth, so that we make a careful choice from the perspective of all the measures that support it. We can no longer afford measures that simply buffer, even in order to reduce the impact on the deficit. In this sense, it is very appropriate, after a year of measures, to be able to make an impact assessment on those that have worked and on the most effective ones, also adopting a selective approach and trying to understand within the individual sectors which companies and which individuals must be helped and which instead can start to walk again on their own legs. This is in fact the final objective. With the view of the so-called ristori 5, which will arrive - I hope - as soon as possible, we broke up in December with some common insights and commitments, which I will now list. We need to simplify the procedures for access to all restaurants: they are telling us that they are particularly bureaucratic and therefore, even from the recovery perspective, this is an indication. It is necessary to refresh the closed sectors that have not yet been refreshed: the snow sector, that of the mountain, once again that tourist and that crocieristico, that it has not been able to work throughout the winter period. The equalization clause must be introduced, clearly in order to restore in a fair way the activities that have seasonality or markets that do not respond to a logic of calculation that goes from April to April and also to make sure to cancel the taxes for the enterprises that have had very large losses of turnover. Overcoming the logic of the Ateco codes and unlocking public administration payments seems to me to be absolutely necessary, especially the last of the two: unlocking them or making them countervailable seems to me to be a priority measure. And then, again, alongside the Guaditorial Integration Fund (CIG), the active labour measures must be anticipated and speeded up. If there is one thing that we can do, while our workers must stop, it is to retrain their skills in a digital and green way, following the new directions towards which our economy is addressing thanks to the Next generation EU. Therefore, as anticipated, we will vote in favour of this... [[The microphone automatically switches off]] Mr President, it is a credit opening that naturally... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u137	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u138	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u139	DE BERTOLDI (FdI). Mr President, although today is a day on which the explanation of vote is on a purely technical subject, I do not think we can ignore the tragic weather that this House unfortunately had to see yesterday. It has not even been twenty-four hours since a day in which the entire Senate Assembly made a bad figure, not only in front of the Italian people, but of all that Europe that has certainly looked at us not because we were sovereignists or not, but because the commodity that characterized certain phases and certain moments of yesterday's day and hours is really a black page in the history of our Republic. So I couldn't help but remember that yesterday we saw things unspeakable and unfortunately we also had to hear a government that would like to change the electoral law and make chaos even sedentary through proportional law. Having seen and heard these things, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, today we must - or should - agree to the budgetary deviation. Well, Mr President, we will do so with the sense of responsibility that we have, not with the Government, and with that concept of responsibility that has nothing to do with the concept of responsible or rather irresponsible that characterized the day of yesterday's avoided government crisis. We will do this out of a sense of responsibility towards Italian workers, employees and self-employed, towards VAT matches and professionals affected by the bad management of lockdown and the inability to guarantee safety rules that would allow everyone to remain open and to work. Because - precisely - of these lockdowns, today we are obliged to further debt to ensure at least adequate refreshment to our VAT matches. Today we are facing a barrier that we are going to break down, that of the 170-175 billion debt, which represents a huge boulder for our children, for our heirs. The worst is that this bunch of billions, which we would never have thought we should use, is not even invested in structural measures, but in fact mostly employed in welfare bonuses. It is therefore a very serious situation, for which at least we have managed to obtain some assurance from the majority regarding the fact that the next decree-restoration laws, the fifth, which will take the 32 billion that we will authorize today, will receive part of the proposals that the center-right all united and Brothers of Italy have long been advancing, inherent in the need to put a brake and a limit and overcome the distinction between guaranteed workers and not. All workers, whether self-employed or self-employed, have the right and dignity to be treated in the same way at welfare, social security and tax levels. With my colleague Mr Calandrini, just this afternoon, during the hearing in the Budget Committee, we obtained a commitment from Minister Gualtieri to finally equalise professionals with other VAT consignments and other workers. We will be vigilant to see if finally in the fifth decree-laws ristori the contributions to lost funds will arrive also to the professionals. The Minister has committed himself to the hearing today and we are waiting for him in the coming weeks. We are happy that - as it seems - among the promises there is the overcoming of the codes Ateco, a logic that in fact prevented us to really respond to all the enterprises and the companies that have had to undergo the lockdown. We are also happy that, after months that the centre-right said so, it was understood that, in recognizing contributions and refreshments, it did not make sense to refer solely to April 2020 in relation to 2019. This excluded the whole tourism sector, the agents of commerce and those who have interim budgets, in essence excluding a large part of the enterprises from the compensation introduced. So we accept these promises, hoping that they will be real and that the recognition of fixed costs will be another paradigm that will inspire the Government in the new Ristori-d decree. I'm going to conclude, using the last two minutes that should be mys. But we need a change of pace. I appreciate what my colleague, Mr Conzatti, from Italia Viva, also said, that I hope he will have the strength to bring some more notes in the majority (if it is still, or not, we have not understood). We appreciate, however, that there is someone who, together with us, calls for structural measures and greater public investment. I wonder where the left has ended: has there remained one capable only of looking at the income of citizenship or is there still one that remembers that public investment, in certain economic and historical phases, should be a reference point for the recovery of the country? I remember the reforms of justice and tax. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, without these structural interventions we will not go anywhere, because we cannot continue to be in debt. I therefore hope that the tax currency will also be taken into account and that finally the draft laws on tax credits and the circularisation of the currency will be discussed in the Finance and Treasury Committee in order to have a means of giving more resources to our citizens. In conclusion, I announce the agreement of the Brothers of Italy Group to the budgetary deviation. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u140	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u141	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u142	RUOTOLO (Mixed). Mr President, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues, we are once again here to deal with and to approve the budgetary deviation, an extraordinary measure, because the stage that the country is experiencing is extraordinary, because of the pandemic in progress, which forces us to take extraordinary measures to limit the economic and social damage that our country is being brought to its knees. This further deviation has become necessary because the evolution of the epidemic, in the second wave of the virus that had been predicted all over the world, but that has not been managed to avoid in its re-emergence and spread, is hitting our economy in an even more dramatic way than in the first months of last spring, because it infers on a body already amply debilitated. And even if the measures that have been taken so far have prevented a total closure of the country, as in the first wave of the pandemic, in order to counter the need to minimize the economic costs with that of facing the emergency health, this cannot limit more than so a potentially devastating effect on the economic fabric, with an explosive increase of poverty and inequalities, not only in the most peripheral and degraded areas of the country. In recent months the Government has dealt with the economic consequences of the sanitary measures adopted since the end of October through the adoption of four decree-laws (so-called ristori decrees), having mainly effect for the year 2020, and of the measures brought by the budget law 2021. However, the main economic estimates describe a worsening of the economic situation in the final overview of last year, with an updated economic picture in which, after a rebound in the third quarter of the real GDP growth rate compared to the previous quarter (plus 15.9%), there was a contraction in the fourth quarter of 2020, which would bring the annual contraction in line with the estimate presented in the DEF Update Note (less 9 percent). This deviation will therefore be used to counter the emergency again. It will only cover 2021, with an authorisation of EUR 32 billion in terms of net debt. In fact, the stringent health measures require that new support and refreshment measures be accompanied by much greater support than foreseen in the budget law 2021. It will therefore be essential that the decree to restore five, which will arrive in a few days' time in the Chamber, should support the sectors most exposed to the crisis caused by the Covid-19. It will be important for the measure to contain measures to protect workers, including the possibility of extending further the blocking of redundancies in order not to risk a dramatic social crisis. We know that the epidemic can be eradicated when the administration of effective vaccines is carried out on a large scale, which objectively represent the strongest weapon against the virus for its definitive containment as soon as possible. It will certainly take time for the vaccine cover to be effective. In Italy, the strategic vaccination plan estimates that, in the fourth quarter, a percentage of the vaccinated population of the order of 90 percent can be reached. We're just getting started. We must ensure that this time is well spent, with a timely organization on the territory. We need to go further, because, after a time when Italy was first in Europe for the number of vaccinations, for several days there have been some delays of the Pfizer company in deliveries and reductions in the number of doses, as well as in other European countries. We must therefore take subsequent action, so as not to alter the national vaccination plan. There is still so much to do and we have to run very fast to ensure the full success of this campaign. I have therefore found the political position expressed in recent days by the vice president of the Lombardy Region, Letizia Moratti, disturbing, radically wrong and culturally dangerous. It was well done by the Minister of Health Roberto Speranza to reiterate that the National Health Service, all the more in a serious health emergency, has the obligation to protect first of all the right to health, starting from the weakest, from those who run the most risk of losing their lives, regardless of the wealth of the territories in which they live. Colleagues and colleagues, health is a fundamental public good. The right to health belongs to everyone and is not a privilege of those who have the most. The country faces an epochal challenge. The communications made by the President of the Council of Ministers at yesterday's sitting in this House have had the merit of clarifying the wide-ranging reform that our country will need to get out of this dramatic phase. The recovery fund plays a strategic role in the restart of our country, which needs, in many sectors, profound, even radical innovations and transformations, in order to emerge from a crisis that has long been affecting our country. We will soon discuss this in Parliament, we will make our changes, if necessary, and we will improve it. Our future is at stake. In the Commissions, therefore, it will be necessary to work with rigour and seriousness and in the overall examination I believe it is right to verify and deepen whether the investments for the Mezzogiorno are adequate in order to reduce the accumulated gap with the rest of the country and actually central in the national political choices. Well said President Conte when he pointed out that 50 percent of the recovery - these are the estimates - will be destined to the South; other than 34 percent. Italy needs the locomotive of the South to start again: more wealth and more resources for the Mezzogiorno because, only by running the South, they will be able to run the North and the whole of Italy. Mr President, I shall conclude with the announcement of the vote in favour of the budgetary deviation of the Senators of Leu and the majority of the Mixed Group. We are all aware of the long and difficult day we had yesterday with the vote of confidence in the Government. The majority came out more fragile, there is no doubt; for everyone today begins a challenge, convinced that they can strengthen the majority in Parliament, for a parliamentary pact. Now we must focus on the problems of Italians and work hard; the country is waiting for quick answers and we must live up to the hope and demand for the future of citizens: first people. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u143	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u144	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u145	MANCA (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in declaring first of all the Democratic Party's vote in favour of the motion for a resolution drawn up by the majority - which also accepted the correct assessments and interpretations of the opposition - I would like to focus on some aspects which I consider to be central, precisely because today we are not making a bureaucratic act, but a very important political choice. All the parliamentary groups have asked the government to guarantee the centrality of Parliament also in the management of an emerging phase; yet, we cannot start from the demand for the centrality of Parliament by trampling, ignoring or interpreting the Constitutional Charter politically. They do not guarantee centrality and credibility to the institutions by bending the rules of our democracy. I say this very clearly: we cannot confuse the majority needed to guarantee the confidence of a government in office with the reinforced one needed to approve the budgetary deviation and constitutional changes. It is a false political caricature that offends the credibility and dignity of this Parliament. [[Applause.]] So, because we are working together - I believe - the first starting point must be to recognize the choice we are making today: 32 billion net debt, 35 billion needs, which is the net balance to be financed, 40 billion in terms of competence and 50 billion in terms of cash. I am a new debt, which inevitably requires an assumption of great responsibility. It is clear that our Constitutional Charter, calling for a strengthened majority, points to the path of national sharing and responsibility and I welcome the fact that there is probably a necessary unanimity in this House today, which strengthens the credibility of this institution. Thirty-two billion additional net debt, after more than 120 already authorized, demonstrates the drama of the pandemic crisis, its uniqueness and the difficulty that the Government has inevitably faced to overcome it and to take Italy out of it. That is why we must consider the meaning of the words we use. We recover the credibility of the institutions we represent, we try to give full meaning and depth to words. We cannot even consider the role of the Minister as, in fact, something about the chair. Please, let us return to the meaning of the words. The Minister, like a teacher (from the word magister), or a doctor, represents the identity of a community and the most important and most valuable role to be safeguarded. We stop using incomplete terms, without any connection to the etymological sense of words. The Minister has the fundamental function of guiding the country out of the pandemic and therefore we must represent the dignity of these institutions, if we want to offer the citizens the credibility and national responsibility, which is manifested in this vote today. I consider this passage politically relevant, because it means that when the common good of the country is at stake, the need to safeguard social shock absorbers and to guarantee companies the liquidity necessary to overcome this phase, the obstinate work aimed at accompanying Italy out of the pandemic crisis rightly requires overcoming the fences and barriers between majority and opposition, putting in place a necessary sharing, when the fate of the country is at stake. We are talking about this and that is why we must restore credibility and dignity to politics. We do so if, first of all, we recognize the responsibility of the parliamentary assemblies and the credibility of the measures we are examining. Let us begin to disassemble commonplaces: we must recognize that we are not in an economic phase, in which we can talk about ordinaryity. Asking a government to cross a pandemic, at the same time overcoming structural, economic, social and inequality nodes, which we have been dragging for 20 years, is not worthy of good politics. Good policy can distinguish the stages. With these resources we are taking Italy out of the pandemic and we know that we must unite, especially with the new decree of restorative, the emergency management and a complete reading of the pandemic crisis, which inevitably requires a new vision and answers, to create economic growth, to overcome inequalities and to build a new model of economic development, with the new face of Europe. This is a great, enormous challenge, which requires responsibility and I am proud that the Democratic Party is on its side, in this difficult and so delicate passage. It is our identity, they are the natural roots of our political belonging. We must not be afraid to take on this responsibility and we must not be afraid to ask, to strive to widen the confrontation, to build sharing even with oppositions, when national interest and the destiny of young people are at stake, to whom we are asking for a huge effort. We are in fact adding debt and asking for limitations, because the distance, which is required in terms of relationships between people, strikes and closes the younger generations, asking them for an additional sacrifice, for example in the renunciation of a school in presence, but also in the renunciation of many relationships, which are an integral part of the growth and development of the younger generations. I therefore believe that, with great determination, we must recognize the work we are doing and attach to the emerging measures a project to get out of this pandemic crisis. That is why I believe that it is also important to intervene on the decontribution in the field of VAT consignments. These are shares and instances born from a confrontation with oppositions and we believe that these measures are fundamental, so as not to leave the world of VAT matches in solitude and indifference. To have guaranteed the universality of support, which was not there, is something important and valuable, which must go beyond an absurd debate on armchairs, responsibilities and the flight from responsibility, which I do not believe is allowed at the moment. Italy is not allowed to escape from responsibility also for the European challenges we face, where we play our future and the future of the Italian economy and society. So, President, our vote of confidence today is not a bureaucratic vote, but it is the authentic interpretation of our identity, it is an incentive for the Government to overcome the mechanism of the Ateco codes and to begin to interpret the supply chains as an adequate response to recognize the necessary support, fundamental to go through this crisis, to companies that have lost turnover, coming out of the month-on-month comparison and those Ateco codes that are probably not able to interpret the entire economic chain. I believe that on these operations, as well as the need to allocate new resources to give speed to the vaccination plan [[. (The microphone switches off automatically. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u146	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u147	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u148	PICHETTO FRATIN (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, representative of the Government, Mr Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday the Government gained confidence from this House, but not the absolute majority, and while it is true that the surveys should only be smelled and not taken for gold, it seems certain that it does not represent the majority of Italians. While you consumed your intrigues, clashes or debates of the Palace for Count 2 in mutation, out of another virus in mutation, the Covid-19, has made us overcome the 80,000 dead and you still can't see the end. A country still in complete mess: Multicoloured regions, parameters that vary continuously, without a clear vaccination plan and to date it seems without even the certainty of having vaccines. [[Applause]] A country without a framework of rules, without a plan to go from the refreshments at least to the forecast of the accompaniments for the recovery. There is little evidence of the 150 billion spent so far. Colleagues, in March 2020, the Covid-19 was an unpleasant and unexpected event. And pass the euphoria of good holidays, scooters and taps, but since October there is awareness of three important data: the second wave of Covid that had to be expected; the new closures and, as a third element, the effect of all this. No longer forced holidays, like the first lockdown, but long-term consequences: closures, failures, unemployment, social suffering. Now there is a deviation of 32 billion debt that is added to the more than 50 already authorized and a commitment of more than 40 billion competence. It is not possible to predict only refreshment or extensions, rather than paths to get out of them, as for the debitory folders. [[Applause]] We need a qualitative leap, a new path for those who manage to start; temporary rules that accompany those who unfortunately fail, companies and workers. We therefore need an intervention on the crisis code, interventions that concern Naspi, active labour policies for those who are fired, because this moment will come. Therefore, the action cannot be only time assistance, unfortunately minimal. You have to have the courage to combine emergency and normality. [[Applause]] Do the opposite of what you did with the school. [[Applause]] As always, we at Forza Italia are about to discuss the substance, with our proposals - which will be there - for the fifth ristori decree (and today's deviation goes in that direction), for the recovery plan, a challenge that is worth three times the Marshall plan, estimated at 90 billion euros, and for a path of standards rules. Come on, Italy will be there. Gentlemen of the Government, Gentlemen of the majority who, as I said before, do not exist totally, we, manifesting the most suffering concern about your ability to effectively finalize the budgetary deviation that we are asked for today, will still vote in favour; in favour of Italy and for the Italians, because this is the sense of responsibility for us. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u149	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u150	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u151	RIVOLTA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, after yesterday's bad show, when we have recorded a density of colleagues that has never been seen for a long time, we are reducing ourselves today, in a few hours, to vote on the budgetary deviation and I do not see, even for the general disinterest, all this apprehension. We are doing something very important - very important, I repeat - on which, even in a very short time, we have all tried to make a significant contribution. With this new deviation in 2021 we reach a total net debt of 87 billion euros compared to what already foreseen in 2020. I follow exactly what Mr Gualtieri said at the hearing in the Commission a few hours ago: he spoke of a last speech, but above all he said that we must be efficient, effective and selective. Now, about the fact that it is the last intervention (someone has already said so) perhaps there is some doubt, because it will depend on how precise we will be in dealing with the entire vaccination campaign, but also on how we will be balanced with respect to the openings in safety of many realities, starting from schools, transport and all the activities that, among other things, we have forgotten in the other decrees refreshment. [[Applause]] I make a short list, just because they have at least the quote: restaurants, gyms, workers of entertainment, culture, music, theaters, outdoor markets (a lifelong life). I would also like to recall the blockade of evictions and the suffering of small real estate owners, who are not rich billionaires, but are people who, like many others, in a particular historical moment, have thought that the right investment was the apartment, the house and that maybe, with two or three apartments and the eviction block, they find themselves in great straits. There are so many injustices to overcome. However, I would also like to stress, after President Conte's self-incensatory attitude yesterday, the many things that did not go well. We wouldn't be serious if we didn't. Then you need to remember how many things are not yet in efficiency and are not in the process of being resolved. I recall, for example, the extraordinary commissioners not appointed on the 58 public works worth 66 billion and that of the three hundred implementing decrees of the decrees-restoration laws only a third was issued. I would also like to remind you of the too many refreshments which have not arrived or arrived with objectively ridiculous sums per entity; the months for which the Cassaintegrati have not yet seen money; the fact that, out of the 38 implementing decrees of the decree-simplification law, one has been issued. I'm not going to go over all the delays in school, bans and so on, because we could stay here and talk about this for a long time. I would also like to mention the specialist visits blocked throughout Italy: this is a dramatic thing. We must be very quick and efficient; it is not enough to say so at the hearing. [[Applause]] We have to get out of this with an incredible effort, but all together. The State first of all, of course, because certain passages can only be done by the State through the work of the various ministries. Our leader Matteo Salvini has already said this: we will vote in favour of the deviation, first of all because we must ensure that this important figure reaches people, citizens and businesses. The Lega Group has worked mainly to ensure that there are important results and that there is a further completion for the decontribution of VAT and autonomous consignments; funds for tour operators; the overcoming of the Ateco code system, which, on the one hand - it has been repeated several times in this House - has been the fastest way, but it has been incredibly unfair and wrong, because it refers to April on April, so it does not correspond to the reality of businesses. Already this overcoming would be an incredible job that would make it possible to refresh so many people who have been completely excluded. Moreover, the great effort for public transport: one of the most important challenges for safety and contagion control is public transport, both for normal activities and for school. Among the purposes there is also the temporal remodulation of the sending of the folders, another central problem that the League has always signaled: we cannot kill definitively with the debitorial folders those who are already struck by the effects of the Covid on their own company and on their own activity. [[Applause]] This is another basic thing but we get there now; we should have got there sooner. I mean, there's a lot, a lot to do. But I would also like to highlight something that many people remember, but then we do not know how to start. Yesterday we talked a little too much about the past, but instead we have to plan the future. [[Applause.]] We must think that this future will have to be developed and increased by balanced individuals, by young people who can have normal, balanced development, without details... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u152	Sorry, there's so much buzz. I cannot listen well to the speeches and I believe that none of you, on such an important measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u153	[[Applause]] Please, Senator Rivolta. RIVOLTA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Thank you, Mr President. I said that we need balanced individuals to deal with the effects of this pandemic, from the economic point of view and of new poverty, but also with regard to not being able to get out, not having a normal life, normal physical activity. Think about how many Italians and Italians do sports, run, do anything. These restrictions - let me use a slang expression - are driving too many people out of their minds. And we can already see, in a more or less evident way in the newspapers, even reports of suicides, but also of violence in the home and separations; there is a suffering that really risks turning our country into a country where there will be so many people who will need assistance, whose efficiency we do not yet have. The psychiatric and psychological discomfort is already a huge problem and we do not know how to deal with it effectively; let alone then. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u154	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u155	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u156	MATRISCIAN (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators and members of the Government, today Parliament is called upon to vote on a new budgetary deviation of 32 billion, for the allocation of new funds to support economic operators, productive sectors and citizens most affected by the effects of the pandemic. Many months have passed since the first budgetary deviation and it is impressive to think about what has happened in this period of time, not only in Italy, but in the world. We have been overwhelmed by something totally new and unexpected, a sneaky enemy, an invisible enemy, that has upset our lives and that still leaves us with an accounting of victims that call dramatic is to say little. [[Applause]] Every day we read a bulletin that hurts us; many of us got sick, I myself got sick. [[Applause]] Many have fortunately healed, others have failed; at this moment, while we are discussing the budgetary deviation, there are our wonderful health workers struggling to save lives. [[Applause]] At the same time, for the difficult decisions we have made in Italy, but which have also been made in other parts of the world and in the rest of Europe itself, there are many who are suffering, who have uncertainty and fear of their future: the many who work in the business world, traders, professionals, self-employed workers, artisans, those who work in the sports world, the many young people who look at what will happen in their future. What is this budgetary deviation? It is a further test of our country's resistance, a further test of its ability to put measures in place to support those who are suffering today. In fact, new measures are planned to protect the work and to support local authorities, the law enforcement agencies, the civil protection system. Additional appropriations are provided for the health sector and the public transport system in order to ensure greater safety and thus to address the spread of the virus. Time remodulations are planned for the sending of business accounts; measures to speed up and strengthen the recovery of economic activity. Account has been taken of the so-called chain logic: the Government has helped all those activities that, although not formally closed, have suffered decreases in turnover. In addition, an important response has been given to the self-employed and VAT consignments, freeing them of a whole range of contributory charges. To respond to those who say that this Government has produced an infinite amount of decrees aimed at settling forgotten or horrors generated by all previous acts, I am obliged to stress that these statements are absolutely false and tendentious. [[Applause]] In fact, the decrees issued and elaborated in detail, accepting the observations that gradually the categories and citizens sent us, are the result of the continuous and unexpected evolution of this pandemic, which struck us first from a health and then economic point of view. It's easy to stand on the other side, point fingers and judge. [[Applause]] It is easy to speak without realizing that what we are experiencing is a dramatic situation, not to dwell on the fact that we have been faced with a condition never before lived and for which it was necessary to adopt measures that appeared drastic, but that in reality were simply adequate and proportionate to protect the right to life, to the health of the citizens and to contain the spread of the contagion [[Applause]] Our Government has always acted on the basis of the assessments of the technical-scientific committee, always choosing the line of transparency and truth without feeding mistrust and conspiracy. Moreover, the truth is the strongest antidote; transparency is the first vaccine to be given. [[Applause]] The first three deviations voted in 2020 put 100 billion in the field. On the occasion of the budget law, we voted for another deviation of 22 billion. Today, in view of the fifth ristori decree, we are called to vote on a further deviation of 32 billion. Colleagues, we are talking about additional fresh resources for over 150 billion that have proved fundamental not only to protect our health, our workers, our businesses, our families, but also to open up a path of development firmly, to make the country ready to exploit all the potential of the recovery plan once we have left this complicated moment behind. Could we do better and more? Anything can and must be improved, especially at such a convulsive historical stage, but colleagues, we cannot fail to have the intellectual honesty to recognize the quantity and quality of the effort being made. In this regard, I would just like to make a few examples, not with the intention of presenting the list of expenditure, but in order to restore a necessary truth with respect to some defeatist and instrumental narrative that we have had to listen to in this House too. [[Applause]] The Unioncamere data at the end of October told us that between July and September 2020 the 110 percent superbonus, a measure designed and strongly wanted by the Movimento 5 Stars, created more than 5,000 construction companies. The Unioncamere data of recent days certify that in 2020 the general balance between companies ceased and constituted is positive: despite the crisis, there are 19,000 more companies, demonstrating the effectiveness of the measures of the Government in support of the resilience of our productive fabric. [[Applause]] Data from the General Accounting Office and the Institute on Local Finance show that investments in municipalities continue at a fast pace: in the first six months of 2020 €4 billion was spent on investments, 17.4% more than in 2018. The 24 Hours Sun attaches this merit to the so-called standard Spain, wanted by the Movimento 5 Stars, a norm that can have even greater effects in the coming months. Istat data two days ago certify the effectiveness of the export pact put in place by the Minister of Foreign Affairs: we have our own made in Italy that since November 2020 has risen by 4% more per month and 1% more than a year ago. [[Applause]] The INPS data for authorised day-to-day cash-inflow hours tell us that more than 173 million hours were authorised in November 2020 and relate almost entirely to the causal Covid-19. [[Applause]] In November 2019 the authorised hours were just over 14 million. This fact is clear on the efforts made by the Ministry of Labour and the INPS. We have not lowered our eyes - and I say this as President of the Commission, public and private work, social security in the Senate - on combating gender discrimination. [[Applause]] , on increasing the skills and employment prospects of young people and people with disabilities, including intellectual disabilities, on the territorial rebalancing and development of the Mezzogiorno and the internal areas. It will be central to improve the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as Italian micro-enterprises, which are lagging behind those of other European countries. Reduce gaps between citizens and territories: this is the real opportunity to resume investing, activating unexpressed growth and innovation potentials to create opportunities for good work, especially for young people and women in the most marginal areas. Develop a plan for new skills, provide support for women's entrepreneurship, enhance dual apprenticeship and universal civil service, invest in social infrastructure, family, community and third sector: these are the highlights of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan for Inclusion and Cohesion. [[Applause]] The great sense of responsibility and solidarity put in place by our citizens also push us, who have the honour to serve the country, to do everything possible, making available maturity, firmness and vision capacity because, in the face of the worst emergency that Italy has been facing for 70 years, it is necessary to give support and relief to our fellow citizens, holding the helm of constitutional values firmly. I'm sorry to say that, but someone put them at risk... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u157	We really cannot understand the disinterest of this House in this debate; we cannot understand it.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u158	[[Applause]] Please, Senator Matrisciano, continue. MATRISCIAN (M5S). The citizens are asking us for answers and we are working in this direction. There is no time to lose, because at this moment the times of politics do not coincide with the times of the emergency, which needs speed and effectiveness. [[Applause]] We must not lose our connection with reality, we must not be distracted by sterile polemics. Outside this House there are millions of people who cling their teeth and who hold fast, waiting for better times. That is why we must work to ensure that the refreshments arrive as soon as possible. We must defend our future at all costs, giving a perspective to young people with public education, work, environmental protection, effective guarantee of the right to health. [[Applause]] To do all this, we need a strong and credible policy that speaks to young people, not just young people... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u159	We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions on the report to Parliament drawn up pursuant to Article 6 of Law No 243 of 24 December 2012. Before voting, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions for resolutions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation. I would remind you that this resolution requires an absolute majority of the members of the Assembly, so that the vote will take place by electronic means by simultaneous ballot. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 1 (text 2), tabled by Senators Marcucci, Licheri, De Petris and Steger. (The vote was followed). [[Senators present 293 Senators voting 292 Majority 161 Favourites 291 Contrars 0 Absent 1]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause]] Motion for a resolution No 2 has been withdrawn, and motion for a resolution No 3 is not included.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u160	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u161	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u162	Ferrero (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I am reading a letter from a gentleman who calls himself a former fitness entrepreneur, addressed to our President of the Republic and to all of you: "Good morning, Egregi, I am here to write you my story which is then that of many others. After years in books, in 2006 I started my entrepreneurial career in the world of gyms, swimming pools and sports in general. Important initial investments, 2008 economic crisis, issues and difficulties overcome, full-time activity for the years following, until February 2020. After fourteen years of fatigue and sweat, open thirteen hours a day, I boast no tax debt, no tax exceeded. From March 2020 to 31 December 2020, five months of total closure; five months between recovery, restrictions, DPCM, turnover at 50%, over 4,000 euros spent on sanitization, gel, paper, plexiglass and other things; 3,840 euros unique aid received for closures March, April and May. Only terror sown and never any incentive to get people back to the gym. Over €300,000 of losses and missed receipts that will affect the next four or five years. No predictions of 100% reopening. Now, after all the payment of money in order to be able to stand up until today, I should continue to pay the rents of the closing months, the expenses, the utilities, hoping to be able to reopen, perhaps, we do not know when, then having to recover November, December and January with contingent entrances. But do you have any idea how much it would cost to run a sports facility and a swimming pool? I remind you that this is not the cause of mismanagement, but it has been imposed and agreed by the Government to protect and save the lives of all Italians, including yours. At least it was used to defeat the virus. I conclude with a sentence that struck me: My ten-year-old son Mattia has been asking me for months because Dad's gym and pool are empty. I, laughing, tell him that they are all in the queue from the tobacconist to buy cigarettes, yet the smoke causes about 90,000 deaths a year in Italy, far more than Covid. Now I expect from you politicians at least a better answer than mine to give to my son. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u163	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-01-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-294.ana.u164	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday, 26 January, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.48 p.m.
