ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:34 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Durnwalder, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u4	[[The President and the Assembly stand.]] Senators, I would like to address a thought of emotional participation in the pain of Senator Luigi Covatta's family, colleagues and friends. Journalist, writer, politician, man of the institutions, Luigi Covatta was one of the most authoritative voices of Italian socialism, a reformist for character and cultural vocation. A keen observer of the social and economic dynamics of the country, he was among the first, in the late 1960s, to suggest the idea of a political container that could unite and represent the progressive Catholics of the left: an idea that Luigi Covatta supported with firm conviction, first in the short adventure of the political movement of the workers, and therefore in the tireless commitment also cultural within the Italian socialist party, of which he was for almost twenty years one of the main exponents of the most reformist and reformist wing. For the first time elected to the Chamber of Deputies in 1979, Luigi Covatta was a Member of Parliament for four legislatures, three of which here in the Senate, and several times State Secretary for Education and Cultural and Environmental Heritage, positions always held with rigour, responsibility, firm respect for the institutions and above all great attention to the demands of citizens and society. The same attention with which, even after withdrawing from active politics and returning to publishing, Luigi Covatta continued to observe, interpret, explain and tell many pages of our era, always with intelligence, acumen, irony, freedom and honesty of thought, qualities for which in 2009 he had been called to direct "Mondoperaio" (Mondoperaio), a historical socialist magazine founded by Pietro Nenni, that Luigi Covatta helped to revive, consolidating its prestige as an authoritative incubator of ideas and cultural initiatives. It is these days the news that the library of the Senate is completing the digitalization works, begun last year, of the entire collection of the magazine since the first issue, a project to which Luigi Covatta himself had joined with enthusiasm and active participation. The news of his sudden disappearance was a cause of deep sorrow for all, because it leaves us orphans of a strong personality and great values. An intellectual of charism, sensitive and generous, always sided with the workers; a passionate politician, with an unshakable faith in his ideas, but always ready to confront and constructive dialectic, in the interest of the citizens and in respect for the reasons of all. In remembrance of Senator Luigi Covatta I therefore invite the Assembly to observe a minute's silence. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u7	PITTELLA (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, some may find the echo of the disappearance of Gigi Covatta surprising: the messages of public condolence, the editorials of remembrance and reflection, the feeling that has passed through old and young socialist comrades, but also personalities far from his training, are far from what he traditionally reserves for a former Member of Parliament. The truth is contained in her writings, which she recalled, in the magazine "Mondoperaio" (Mondoperaio), in the quality and topicality of her reasonings, in the fine and precious pen with which she wrote them. The truth is this: Covatta was an ancient politician and intellectual in the totalizing militancy, made of infinite comparisons, of cigarettes never extinguished, of passions never endured, of longings never tame, and was modern in the ability to read phenomena, in the reformatory intuition, in the daring contamination. It was anomalous in his being a Christian and a socialist, when Christians had an inescapable home and socialists knew of fiery secularism. A life of fruitful contradictions, that of Covatta. He was a militant in the Catholic Association against Christian Democrat Doroteism; he was a Lombard socialist, but critically at his side and never against the modernization of Bettino Craxi and was one of the inspirations of Rimini's Manifesto for merits and needs. His stature made the pair with a human trait of a disarming sincerity that only a true and honest intellectual knows how to have. He was a polemicist, but never a polemic; he could deny in irony his disagreements and in the written word he found the ideal grimaldello to undo totems and taboos. In short, let's face it, it has nothing to do with the current political time, made up of readings at the limit of the inconsistency, forms without substance, decisions without thought. It is for this reason, perhaps, that we all remember it today with admiration and feeling, to which I personally associate the friendship and consonance of companion of a thousand battles, of a thousand sharings, even of some discord, when politics had the capital "P" and change society committed all its life. Hi, Luigi! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u10	BRESSA (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, I met Luigi Covatta when the Olive tree was born and he was very active, but very discreet. He was interested in content and programs, not photos with the protagonists of that season. The interest in the importance of the content of the reform was also reflected in his commitment to constitutional reform in order, as he said, to heal the cut of parliamentarians, to correct and not demonize a reform. For Gigi Covatta, politics was a serious, real thing, and it had always been like this since the time of the university agreement. In his experience in Italian Christian Workers' Associations (ACLI), in his work with Livio Labor in the Association of Political Culture (ACPOL) he was always motivated, competent and a tireless worker, never domo, even when politics has reserved him deep disappointments, as in the 1972 elections and, on the other hand, throughout his career in the Italian Socialist Party, as has just been recalled. In his parliamentary and government activity he was never Minister, but always intelligent and determined protagonist, able to leave his mark on the things in which he was engaged. He was the president of "Italia Lavoro" and I remember, moreover, his ability to write, to explain and to rationalize. He resurrected "Mondoperaio" and became director of it and I like to take up here a definition used by ACLI in Milan to remember it: "Moderately revolutionary, revolutionaryly moderate." I express a heartfelt greeting and sincere participation in the pain of your loved ones and your companions on the street, dear Luigi. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u13	NENCINI (IV-PSI). Mr President, I would like to thank you and your colleagues for reminding us of Gigi in this House. To find Gigi you had to follow the traces of Gauloises' smoke or, as an alternative to Gauloises' full ashtrays, stick in a bookstore. Gigi lived between cigarettes smoked in half, as his friend Pittella used to remember, and books. He was an authentic opponent of presentism and was above all a refined Neapolitan intellectual who kept convincing you that politics is a profession, but to be such you have to do it like all professionals. We need to study, study and study, read, read and read, deepen, deepen and deepen, which is perhaps no longer considered absolutely adequate today. He had a full history; with him we gave life to the second phase of "Mondoperaio" in 2009, as you recalled. But his previous story is also definitely interesting. It belonged to that Catholic-social soul, who arrived at the PSI in the early 1970s; many arrived, but above all he, Livio Labor and Gennaro Acquaviva. They arrived there because they had identified in humanitarian socialism the possibility of combining, in the most politically perfect way possible, the social doctrine of the Church. Since then they have never abandoned this destiny, but they have cultivated it with serenity. It was the time when the ferments in the Catholic world were a sort of daily storm; it was the time when Gigi Covatta spoke for a long time, with that experience of Barbiana that he had had to the head Don Milani. He was a minority man, like all intellectuals, but he boasted about it. The book in which he confided most had already expressed his belonging in the title: it was "Menschevichi" (Mensheviks), and the Mensheviks, as known, are the minority over the Bolsheviks, who are the majority. Those Mensheviks were the reformists in the history of Republican and Prerepublican Italy, always, constantly in the minority, as a heretic Catholic - because he made a choice outside of Christian Democracy - and as belonging to a history, the socialist one, which since the post-war period, in the Italian left, had covered and occupied that dimension. If, however, Gigi had a role (and really did), it was that (and was one of the few) to provide ammunition to the then secretary Bettino Craxi (and were valuable ammunition) to contend with the Italian Communist Party the cultural hegemony on the left. Who has judged that story, in a diabolical way, as a story of dwarves and dancers has forgotten that the world that Gigi Covatta put in motion through the first phase of "Mondoperaio" had names that made the history of Italian culture: were Amato, Vassalli, Massimo Severo Giannini, Cheli, Cassese, Reviglio, Lina Wertmüller, Mario Soldati and, then, Gassman, Gianni Brera, Federico Zeri and many others. No more dwarves and dancers! It was a story that turned out, in the end, in its winning way, because it imposed on the Italian left, thanks to Gigi, a reformist vision that was absolutely not her own. I would like to recall that the second life of Mondoperaio, whom he led, entrusted it above all to a world that is also present here in the Chamber, a new generation, and did so on the basis of consistency. Here, I still find consistency to be a value. Gigi's was consistent until the end of his days. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u16	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, I would like to join in the words of my fellow Members. With Covatta disappears an important leader of the Italian Socialist Party, a great intellectual, an authentic reformist, protagonist of political life. As the previous speaker has already said, we often remember political personalities. Perhaps from this point of view we could say that a reflection today is necessary. The thickness and political quality of personalities such as Covatta should stimulate us to make an effort, a blow to the kidneys, beyond political and cultural positions, to give politics the depth that, especially at a time like this, deserves and is, indeed, essential to ensure quality for democracy. In those years he was the protagonist in the first place with the ACLI, strongly supporting the union unity, the new statute of the workers. In 1969 he founded, with Riccardo Lombardi, an association that started from the idea of overcoming the political unity of Catholics, a central point of his experience, I believe, as some colleagues also mentioned. After the parliamentary elections in 1972, where the Workers' Political Movement did not have a positive result, Covatta joined the Socialist Party together with many of his colleagues. He was head of the study office in 1979; he assumed positions of government, institutional positions. Its protagonism is certainly important, as has been mentioned, with the aim of questioning the so-called cultural hegemony of the Communist Party. He made an important contribution to the Socialist project of 1978 and to the Reforming Alliance of the merits and needs of the 1982 conference in Rimini, which - I would like to say - represents for me one of the most interesting and innovative elaborations of those years and a stimulus to a reflection that - alas - the left as a whole failed to make. I do not want to deny dialectic - I was in different positions - but I certainly recognize that, from that point of view, an important job was done. In conclusion, I want to make a brief reflection on the concept of reformism. Sometimes this word, as happens in language and in the way of use, risks losing its meaning. I insist: we are in a new phase; everything has changed. Reasoning and having the cultural, political and historical ambition to be reformists means having the courage to have a new radicality, a new model of development, a new idea of society. This is reformism, because without a broad vision reformism would risk becoming an administrative practice. And despite different positions, quality, work and commitment, Covatta had this ambition. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u19	CRAXI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is not easy to remember, without falling into rhetoric, a missing personality. It is even more so if we have to commemorate a socialist, an uneasy and heretical intellectual, with a shy and introverted character, as Luigi Covatta has always been. Ironic and self-ironic, Gigi, as he was affectionately called by friends and comrades, was a brilliant card of a mosaic of intelligences that contributed to the development of that new socialist course that represented, despite a certain fatious reading that he always had to oppose, a fundamental factor of Italian progress. In fact, Covatta after a significant cultural adventure, but very faint of results, as was that of the Political Movement of Workers (MPL) of Livio Labor, a reformist Catholic movement - in fact one of the most interesting experiences of the Catholic presence in militant politics - joined with a handful of intelligences after the parliamentary elections of 1972 to a Socialist Party in the grip of a profound cultural crisis, even more than strategic and electoral. So he found himself, first alongside Riccardo Lombardi, then Bettino Craxi, to be what I love to call a field intellectual. As it is precisely of those who have a reformist culture, he got his hands dirty, experienced the difficulties and harshness of politics, not limited to a single theoretical elaboration, but carrying out within the party and institutions a strong action, sometimes countercurrent as it was used to do in a libertarian house such as the socialist one, thus acting as a link between the varied intellectual world that revolved around Craxi and the socialists. Covatta was also one of the main protagonists of that unmatched programmatic conference in Rimini in 1982, both as a creator and as a rapporteur. In fact, he was entrusted with the introductory relationship that opened the doors to a new socialist phase with a passage - it was said then - from the project to the program, placing the theme of the governability of the country. Governing change was the motto and socialist mission of those years that, as Covata claimed in his speech, it is not pretentious to put at the centre of the socialist program together with that reformist message that identifies in society the new subjects of innovation and political progress. Covatta, like many boys of his generation, of every color and part, understood politics, the political one that we evoke today with the emphatic use of the capital "P," as the playground to dedicate one's life, a field of play from which it did not come out even after the destruction of the socialist house, occurred within that false revolution that took the name of "tangentopolis" and after the consequent end of his parliamentary experience. His experience and that of so many must remind us that politics, good politics cannot and must not be exhausted in the parliamentary practice of which it is only a part. He chose in the second Republic to try to read and reread the Craxian epic, contributing, like many other comrades, to prevent the damnatio memoriae of a history of civilization and to subvert part of a false and mystical vulgate marked by an antisocialism of manner. I didn't always agree with Gigi over the years, with some of his analyses and some of his recent readings. I remember a dinner in Bari, a few years ago, in which we debated until late evening between a glass of wine and much more than a few cigarettes, about some events in our history. I recognized in him the free spirit, the intellectual self-criticism, before cryptic, and I have always shared one of his anxieties from Rimini to today, passing through the tragic 1992-1994 legislature, when he held the post of Vice-President of the Commission for institutional reforms: the need to give life to a deep institutional reform of which no one speaks and of which today, even more than yesterday, we have a desperate need. It is an unsolved node that because of the long and lasting Italian crisis [[. (The microphone switches off automatically]] ...from careful and acute commentator what he was never lacking his voice. Ladies and gentlemen, greeting a comrade, giving the last farewell to a member of your community, because the parties were first of all this, it is painful, believe me, but I am confident that Gigi will continue to live in the memory of so many, in his writings and in his papers, and that at this moment, wherever he is, he will be watching us smile, smoking the usual cigarette. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u22	GRASSI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I did not know Senator Luigi Covatta except indirectly for his writings, but also for his origins. Covatta was Campanian, he was born in Ischia, and reading his works can be seen in his work, in his approach, the bitter and sad irony typical of my land. I was particularly impressed by a book entitled "Menschevichi." Reformists in the history of Republican Italy. We know that the Mensheviks are the losers of the Russian revolution, they are the democratic reformists who lose the challenge with history, overwhelmed by the October coup of the Bolsheviks. It is, therefore, a not accidental title, which expresses a bitterness, the perception that the Italian Catholic Reformist Left and its objectives had lost the challenge with history in a certain period of our Italy. It is interesting to remember Covatta by echoing in this House his words of his 2007 writing, which is still linked to a season that has passed, but whose spirit survives. Allow me to read a short passage: the partycracy in Italy - Covatta writes - has not descended from heaven, nor has it conformed, as it considers a questionable vulgate, mainly to the orientations of the victorious powers of the Second World War. Lucio Caracciolo - writes Covatta -, who also defines post-war Italy as a semi-protectorate, wants to point out that a semi-protectorate is neither a colony nor a palate; so, although conditioned, affiliated, the First Republic has remained anyway and first of all a democracy, in which Italian governments were chosen by Italians and not by Americans. This is a symptomatic phrase of Covatta's thought, because he is telling us that we are not victims of history; he reminds us that we are the creators of it. In the spirit of Covatta there was the perception of a tragedy that concerns our country and our politics; the tragedy given by a blocked democracy, where we still carry the legacy, which according to him probably finds its roots in the fascist experience, for which the opponent is an enemy. Perhaps this is the great teaching that Covatta still leaves us today, is the reason why his works are still alive even if written in years now far away, apparently far away. His work is still alive, because it shows us the way we have to go. If he were here today and could observe what is happening he would probably tell us: remember that today, at this moment more than ever, in a moment of great change, even for an external factor such as the pandemic, you have in your hands the future of the country, but to bring him to be modern he would remind us that we must recognize one another in the other opponents and not enemies. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u25	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I asked you this morning to speak on the order of business, because the League wishes to face publicly a political situation that is best for us all to say and that I also want to tell you that it is the second office of the State. It has been more than a month since this Government was born that I have expressly asked for a meeting with all the majority leaders to decide what are the bill to schedule in the various Commissions. The answer, after a month and a half, is that in every single Commission the old majority (then you will decide whether or not it is legitimate), so the majority of the current majority, wants to go on calendarizing draft identity laws and in many cases divisive. [[Applause]] Since I am the Parent Company and I participated in the meeting last week with President Draghi, in which all the parties participated, I remember very well that President Draghi - and I take the responsibility to use his own words - specifically asked that, in this delicate phase of our country from the health and economic point of view, to set aside - he used this term - everything that has meant a marking of the difference between the various parties in the last twenty years. [[Applause]] Okay? That's how we all say it. He also said that this must be done not only by the Government, but also by Parliament, so much so that it did not like a motion that had been tabled and had had a different vote, although it was a motion, because he specified that people need confidence at the moment. And trust, how do we give it to them? Being united on the emerging issues of the moment, not only to the Government, but also to Parliament. Faced with these words, of which I have also noted, the result is what I see: in Parliament we move forward and the old majority goes on as if the Government still had Count. [[Applause]] I repeat: I take note of this, but it is also time for each of us to assume our responsibilities before the Government and before President Mattarella who wanted this Government and wanted this moment. [[Applause]] Moving forward with these divisive themes means poisoning the climate inside and putting in trouble and further at risk a situation that is already difficult between us, let's face it, because we find it difficult to reach agreement on many issues. So the important thing is that one takes on this responsibility. What do we do instead? While the government is working hard to settle matters and reach agreement between us and move forward to get the country out of emergencies, what do we do in Parliament? Do we set fires in the various Commissions or in the Chamber on issues called Zan today, tomorrow it will be the ius solo and then there will be others? No, I don't think that's possible at all, with respect for every single idea. [[Applause]] We did not place the issue of shared trust, which we know to create problems, or that of security decrees. We didn't put any more issues, like flat tax, but we set them aside. We have proposed draft laws that do not create problems for anyone, that can be useful at this time of crisis and that can also give - as we say - visibility and role to Parliament. But, excuse me, the answer you have given to us is very negative in this respect. You want to carry on your flagship themes. Yesterday, Senator Ostellari, who was later accused, used only a little responsibility and common sense. [[Brusio]] Excuse me, please, I ask you to speak; then I will listen to what you say. Senator Ostellari said: as a majority you find and decide, because getting to a calendarization, where a part of the majority votes in favour, a part votes against and the majority splits, can create tensions. He was attacked as if Ostellari wanted to stop something. No one will be able to stop what is provided for in the Rules of Procedure. So you're gonna raise your hand and do what you have to do. The important thing is for each of us to assume our responsibilities. [[Applause]] I start at the end: here the divisive theme is not homotransphobia, on which we all agree. On the contrary, Senator Ostellari himself has made himself available to amend Article 61 of the penal code, in order to increase the penalties for those who discriminate for sexual orientation. There is the theme of futile and poor motives, but not only. I would add that there are the themes of religious orientation, political orientation, the elderly, the disabled, the clochard and ethnic motives. In fact, there can be no citizens more equal than others, and on this the League is there! [[Applause]] We tell artists, TV presenters, the whole world of the media: the League is there. What's divisive? The Zan bill! But it is not only divisive with us, but it is divisive also to the left, because we have seen Arcilesbica, Anna Paola Concia, some feminists like Marina Terragni, who have criticized this bill, because gender identity puts at risk the conquests made by women for years. [[Applause]] This is the theme. It puts a theme... [[Protests]] Colleagues, sorry, I'm about to finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u26	Colleagues, you will have plenty of time to express your opinion. Let's get this over with!
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u27	[[Comments.]] No, it's not okay! Please, Senator, continue. ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). ...has a theme... [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u28	Please, ladies and gentlemen, you have signed up to speak! Sit down! Everyone has the right to say what they want. Sit down! Please, Senator Romeo, continue.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u29	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I am about to conclude. ...it poses a theme that puts at risk the conquest of the same pink quotas, as some important feminists say, who wrote. [[Comments.]] Colleagues, this is the old system for which when there's something that bothers you, you don't want to make others talk. [[Applause]] Classic dictatorship. [[Applause. Comments]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u30	Senator Airola! Please let me finish. We are in a free Parliament.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u31	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). I'm finishing. The subject of the crime of opinion: I respect LGBT ideas, but I want others to respect mine too. I cannot be put in a position tomorrow to be branded, sanctioned, unable to run, just because I dared to contradict an ideology. This isn't fair! Freedom of expression must be fully protected! [[Applause. Comments]] I have ten minutes to rule, Senator Airola. [[Comments]] Last question: the theme of the school. In school, I don't want to impose a model, whether it's the LGBT model or the Pillon model. I don't want any model: at school you teach grammar, geography, mathematics, Italian and you teach responsibilities, then everyone will be free to choose the model that best believes. [[Applause]] This is freedom. Because when writer Murgia says that the most interesting part of the Zan bill is about schools, because we want to change culture, I get the creeps [[Applause]] And it's a divisive argument! Today it is called Zan, tomorrow it will be called in another way, the important thing is that it is clear, before President Draghi and the President of the Republic, who started the fire in this Parliament and in this delicate phase of our Republic, without understanding the meaning of this Government. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u34	MALPEZZI (PD). Mr President, I welcome the fact that President Romeo wanted to have a debate in which he also included the Zan draft law: we are simply asking for this debate to be held in the proper place, that is, in the Commission. [[Applause]] In fact, the only thing we are asking for is precisely the timing of the measures, so that the Commissions can also work on the bill of parliamentary initiative, because among our tasks, in addition to making sure that the decree-laws can be converted as correctly as possible, with the maximum participation of Parliament, there is to allow the Parliament to play its role, really giving back to him the centrality that has been so much talked about in recent months. Today that there is one more opportunity, given also the large majority to be able to face the decrees, it is a question of working on the draft laws that can safely allow a debate in the appropriate fora. So I say to President Romeo, without wanting to have a debate with him directly, that this is also the sense of responsibility, that is to say to allow the rules and the Rules of Procedure to be respected. We have asked for a new timetable for the Zan draft law: President Ostellari has decided to take another path which, from our point of view, does not correspond to the Rules of Procedure, because it is up to the President of a Commission to schedule the discussion of a measure, when there is a request, even if it is not unanimous and then the debate will take place in the appropriate forums. The question, however, Mr President, is not that of possible issues that divide us, because I remember that what is referred to as the bill Pillon [[Comments]] , sorry, I wanted to say Zan bill - unfortunately there are those who hinder it in this way - is a measure against hate crimes and I imagined that, compared to the fight against hate crimes, transversality could be complete and total. [[Applause]] In fact, we should also learn to call things by their name and not to use just slogans that are easy in communication, but then that, when we touch on the subject of school, we should also know how school works and know that any activity is proposed at the beginning of the year, through a pact of co-responsibility, is signed by parents. But let's forget it, it was my job and maybe I forgot, and no one imposes anything on anyone. But the subject, Mr President - and I take this opportunity to draw this to your attention too, given that President Romeo has raised this issue - is not just the Zan bill. The fact is that whenever you try to propose draft laws, which may have already been adopted at first reading by the other side of Parliament and which could therefore be finally adopted here - we are faced with a real barrier, with the impossibility, in this case, yes, the veto that even prevents us from opening the debate. I could mention, for example, the bill for the establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry into fake news, which is another issue which sees the lack of acceptance by some political forces. [[Applause]] I would be very happy to be able to discuss and find forms of mediation, but when the debate is even prevented, it becomes difficult then to try to identify points of encounter. So let us start to schedule the measures, let us start to discuss and see where we get to: perhaps we who are Group Presidents should at least push to have this in Parliament. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u37	LICHERI (M5S). Mr President, on behalf of the Movimento 5 Star Group, with extreme calmness, I want to say that it must be clear to the League that a country, thanks to its support and subsidies, survives, but a country grows if the social and economic rights of workers grow, if the fundamental rights of the person are strengthened. [[Applause]] That's how a nation grows. I take note of the emerging situation, of the President's words, but there is no country in the world that can give up growing on the subject of the civil rights of the person, of an individual. [[Applause]] Whatever you say, President Romeo, Italy wants a law that does not allow a person to be insulted or beaten simply for his or her way of being. [[Applause]] It is Italy that wants this step of civilization, and what we are in is called Parliament because it puts everyone, even President Ostellari, in a position to find the right declinations to better interpret the feeling of the nation. We do not know how much longer we will have to support the income of those who lost it or the liquidity of the companies that are in crisis, but we know that in a month our companies will be called to extraordinary challenges, they will have to return to the foreign markets and compete with their competitors, but to do this and to succeed in this challenge, they need to have behind them, from here to next year, a country finally modern, fast, slim, agile, a country that faces the millennium of ecological transition. With his speeches, we will not go anywhere, we will only go back, if we want to take Poland as a model of civil society, that banishes gender identity and that does not allow people to visit certain places. [[Applause]] Ours is not the Government of Poland, ours is a country that wants to move towards the path of democracy and its president Ostellari, Senator Romeo, yesterday did not apply the principles of democracy, getting up from the chair and leaving the office. [[Applause]] President Ostellari - I say this with the utmost respect for the person, mine is a political criticism and I would like to say this - has placed itself above the Rules of Procedure. You, Mr Romeo, said that it is true that you did so, but you did it out of a sense of responsibility. No one, no one, no one can disapply the Senate's Rules of Procedure. [[Applause]] A President of the Commission must note that a majority has coagulated, which reflects the feeling of the country and must incardinate that bill in the Commission. Then it will be the expression of the will of the parliamentarians to decide, but neither President Ostellari nor the League can decide it: the Senate must decide it, especially when it comes to such important issues. We are ready, President Romeo, to sit around a table again. It is important that we do this, but it is also important that we not only think about the fact that this is a Government that will have to manage many billions in the coming months (you mentioned Giuseppe Conte), that have arrived thanks to Giuseppe Conte and not only to him. [[Applause]] We have also seen last-minute professions of ecology and Europeanism in order to enter the government that will have to manage these resources. Looking into the eyes of my allies of government, I mean then: beyond the declarations of facade of Europeanism, ecology and animalism we see the facts! We await you to the facts! Let us see if, behind those professions of Europeanism and ecology, there are the facts. The way in which these checks can be carried out is only one: to see each other here in the Chamber and look each other in the face. [[Applause. Happy comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u38	Colleagues, please, everyone put on the mask! Everyone is invited to keep the mask.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u41	[[Senator Airola's comments.]] DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, thank you, but I would ask Senator Airola to let me speak. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, you're a little restless this morning. Don't worry. I'm in charge of this House. Don't worry and sit down. Please, Senator De Petris. DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, this is a free Parliament; it is a free Senate and the issue we are discussing is the dignity of all individual senators, of every political force, of every parliamentary group. Parliament's freedom, which is also a freedom from governments and majorities, is to exercise its legislative activities to the full, because this is Parliament's exclusive competence. If we call this into question, we are calling into question the very essence of democratic parliaments. Mr President, this statement means that no one in Parliament can have veto power. Everyone can, of course, have the obligation and the power to discuss, to change, to act to change legislative initiatives and laws. I and a very large part of my colleagues cannot accept the power of veto on the part of anyone. If measures come from the House, as in the case of the Zan Bill and the Commission of Inquiry into Fake News, it is the duty of this branch of Parliament to examine them. [[Senator Romeo's comments.]] Senator Romeo, please, I was silent when you spoke. To be clear, Senator Romeo, you have entered into the substance of the bill. So let's get him straight to the House. No one here is questioning the fact that everyone can legitimately have different opinions about the Zan bill. [[Applause]] We know perfectly well that this is a debate that covers many areas. It is a public debate and, indeed, everyone has a duty to represent their own demands. What is not acceptable is that within a Commission where different opinions are recorded, the President does not bring the bill in question to plenary and does not have it voted. Mr President, when - and this has happened many times - there are different opinions at the Conference of the Leaders on the timetable, we come to this House and we vote. This is the functioning of the Senate and Parliament. [[Applause]] Understood? Another basic question... [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u42	Colleagues, let Senator De Petris finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u43	[[Comments.]] DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). You only understand those... [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u44	Sit down, I said that.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u45	Please, Senator De Petris. DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Another matter... [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u46	First of all, you can't speak out of the microphone. I'm the only one who gives the word. Read the Rules of Procedure! You invoke the Rules of Procedure, but no one respects it in here.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u47	Please, Senator De Petris. DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr. President, if you want, I'll tell you what Senator Romeo said. Speaking to me, he said I didn't understand a bat. [[Applause]] It's up to you to see if... [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u48	Senator, you also use a more correct terminology here.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u49	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Me? [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u50	If you talk out of the microphone, I can't hear anything. You can't hear anything with the masks if you're talking out of the microphone. Have the courtesy to listen silently to the speeches of your colleagues. This is an institutional civilization behavior.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u51	Please, Senator De Petris. DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Dear President, I allowed myself to repeat, since you had not heard, the statement made to me by President Romeo, which everyone has heard and which will be in the shorthand report. It's up to her to call back. Let me turn to another matter directly. This majority and this government were born on issues relating to the pandemic and the rapid management of the PNRR. Everything else has nothing to do with majority duties; it has nothing to do with it; it is Parliament's free legislative initiative. Understood? [[Applause]] On the subjects on which you have some problem (which are always the same and I would invite you to give some thought) you can't always think of exercising a power of veto. Here we vote, we raise our hand, we press the button and we decide. This is the way to operate. [[Applause]] Everyone has - rightly - different opinions and options and therefore we are discussing the substance and not through preventive obstructive activity. This is not acceptable. Otherwise, dear President, should we say that this change of government has meant that Parliament has been policed? Because that would mean. I think that none of us will ever be able to accept that, in a free and democratic Republic, Parliament is a police station. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u54	BERNINI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I believe that this morning we are slipping into a controversy that the nature of this government does not deserve. [[Applause]] Forza Italia does not take lessons in protecting fundamental rights from anyone. [[Applause]] And one person tells you this - I speak for a moment in a personal capacity - who has always had a very definite and never hidden position on sensitive issues and who has always been able to act according to conscience within this party, which is able to comprehend different sensibilities. [[Applause]] But that's not the point. We do not accept lessons in the protection of fundamental rights from those who voted against civil unions in the last parliamentary term and now discover themselves as a champion of freedoms. [[Applause]] We don't accept rights lessons. [[Comments of Senator Airola]] Connect Airola, then we'll make a summit, you and I, and we'll tell each other everything; but now the theme is a little higher. We do not accept lessons from those who have entered to be part of a majority that - colleagues, I tell you - is not the Count Government; there is no longer the Count Government, this is not the Count Government. [[Applause]] It is not a political government, it is a government of national unity, I would say of public health, that brings together what together would never be, for very defined objectives: get out of the pandemic quickly, give rest to those who need it and make the recovery plan. [[Applause]] I repeat: a person who has very clear ideas about fundamental rights tells you this, but we must respect the ability of this Government to keep together. We are not saying that we do not want to deal with these issues, but let us say that we want to discuss them with you and that we do not accept impositions. We want majority meetings in which we decide together what the timetable will be; we cannot go on in the fight of handstrokes. [[Applause]] All the other themes, the important ones, those for which we are here together (those that together could never stand), all those themes would be neglected, indeed they could probably not be treated anymore. Colleagues, we've been fighting for half an hour when we all know what our mission is. Then we have majority meetings of a government of public health, which is not a political government. I repeat once again, for the melancholy who have not yet understood it: it is not the Count Government. [[Applause]] We have a majority meeting and we decide together what the priorities are, but we cannot continue... [[Comments]] It is Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, which reminds me that this is Parliament. It is Parliament that is currently representing a majority - I repeat once again, on the subject of boredom - that could never be together on issues of a general nature, but that has taken on a mission towards the country. [[Applause]] We can discuss everything, but we must do it together, not with the blows of hand, beatings and pitfalls within the Commissions, which do not represent the nature of this Government. I repeat: the theme is very slippery and we have very divisive themes on the table. As you know, I have a very definite position on this point, which corresponds only to a part of the sensitivity that represents my political movement. This does not mean censorship, it means democratic sharing of arguments within a majority that has the first obligation to respect itself and its components. [[Applause]] All that has been said, we propose that we meet, not here to make controversy and give each other lessons in fundamental rights, which is quite mortifying. It is true that this is Parliament, but we have forgotten this many times, ladies and gentlemen, just you who are now saying it. [[Applause]] How many times have we passed trust, we have made "fly" decrees-laws that contained many other rights and that managed many other issues. [[Applause]] We saw as trains running measures on which we didn't put our hand, we didn't put a voice, we didn't put eyes, we didn't put a heart on. Now let us all rediscover together that this is Parliament? [[Applause]] Colleagues, let us be careful because - I repeat once again - they look at us from outside. We try to live up to ourselves and the mission we've taken on. We are a government of public health; let us behave as such. Let us meet outside these fora and let us not be controversial. The country doesn't deserve it and doesn't expect it from us. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u55	. (Some senators ask to intervene.) Raise your hand for what? [[Senator Di Nicola points out that he wants to intervene.]] For your Group, Senator Licheri has already spoken, so you can no longer speak. What did he want to talk about? I can't even use my lips because you have the mask. Can you tell the microphone? DI NICOLA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to speak on the order of business. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. That is the order of business and one can speak for the Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u58	FARAONE (IV-PSI). Mr President, I fully agree with the thinking expressed by Mr Bernini, namely the need to transfer the debate we are having in this Chamber, even in very divisive tones, both at a majority meeting, which I ask to be convened on the agenda, and at a Conference of the Leaders to decide how to proceed. [[Applause]] Mr President, I am convinced that the measure can be dealt with without any division in Parliament. I am convinced that there are political forces that, by giving in to the issues posed in the Zan bill, are using the arguments of the bill to create political divisions that justify the collaboration in support of a government that sees us together to manage the emerging phase of the country. In other words, in order to explain to its voters that the government is provisional and that it has political forces divided from each other, we are looking for divisive arguments which are elements of dramatization on a subject that I believe should be addressed and resolved by this Parliament. I believe that the measure can come to this House and can be voted on by reaching a broad consensus. If, instead, you use the topic Zan bill to justify a shared presence in that Government, we will never find sharing precisely because there is no will to find it. Mr President, I think it is hypocritical of anyone who makes himself a champion of the Zan bill and does not say a word against Grillo who said those things in that scandalous video. [[Applause]] It's a hypocritical attitude because if that bill had been passed, Grillo would have been kicked out of this country. [[Applause.]] [[Comments]] Hypocrisy on a bill of this kind, which is then used in this way, I do not accept it. [[Applause.]] [[Comments]] Mr President, I believe that the draft law must be dealt with and that there are conditions. I say this to all political forces. ( [[Comments).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u59	You can't hear anything. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u60	FARAONE (IV-PSI). I say that this bill can be very well dealt with and can be found sharing between political forces. I have read the proposals for amendments made by President Valente, whom I share. I have read the proposals for amendments tabled by Mr Concia, which I agree with. So if, instead of ideologically dividing, we sit down, everyone presents their amendments, proposes the changes and addresses the subject, I believe that the political forces of this country can demonstrate maturity in voting together on a measure on this subject. [[Applause]] , not rejecting the debate, but bringing it to the House and proposing amendments. I believe that, if we tackle this issue in this way, we will find solutions together, also because we, like Italy Viva, want to make proposals to amend the measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u63	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, the first reaction that comes naturally from listening to colleagues is to ask whether this is the majority. Is this the majority called upon to rule the country struggling with the worst pandemic in its history? [[Brusio. Call the president back.]] This is the show that most of us have just offered to Italians. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u64	Please, a little silence.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u65	CIRIANI (FdI). A show of division and fight. You have made an extemporaneous majority check here before everyone, and you have displayed your divisions and contradictions. If this is the majority that governs the country, the Italians have much, much to worry about, President Alberti Casellati. [[Applause]] The problem isn't the Zan bill or, better, it's not just the Zan bill. We share 100% of what President Romeo said. The problem is that you have shown today that we were right when we said that you cannot be in government with someone who thinks differently, if not opposed. Governing with opposites is not only useless, but also harmful to this country. [[Brusio.]] If the majority of the fighting could continue outside the Chamber, it would be better, Mr President. We can also suspend, since by now...
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u66	I'd like to listen. Please be quiet because I'd like to hear Senator Ciriani.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u67	CIRIANI (FdI). Nor is it necessary to hide the dust under the carpet, invoking majority meetings, because the problem is enormous and cannot be hidden. We thought it best to return to the vote, to have a cohesive majority, a majority with clear ideas on fundamental issues such as those you have mentioned. And don't tell us, as Senator De Petris also tried, that this is a government of purpose, a technical government. There are no technical governments: there are governments. [[Applause]] And governments are all politicians and the contradictions that you have highlighted today demonstrate this if there is a need for further demonstrations. If you are unable to govern, if you do not agree, even in the slightest, on central themes and civilizations (because so you have defined them), then draw the consequences. [[Applause]] The country does not deserve this spectacle; it does not deserve it at this moment, it never deserves it, but less than ever today. [[Applause]] President, ladies and gentlemen, the protection of people (and I come to the trigger of today's debate, the Zan bill), of all people, of any religious, sexual, political orientation is already guaranteed by the penal code. Do I need to increase my penis? We are willing to reason; but the climate that a part of the majority (I refer, in particular, to the PD and to the radical left) has created is criminalization for those who dare to think with their own head. You came to us in the Senate to tell us that the Zan bill is unchangeable. And if tomorrow, once the Zan bill has been passed - as I hope it doesn't - some of us say that it is a fundamental right for a child to speak the most beautiful word in the world, that is, Mother, we should incur the wrath of the Orwellian thought police of Senator Cirinna, who accused us of squadrism just because we exercised our right of opposition in the Commission and in the Chamber? This is the system you want to create: a police of thought that intervenes against those who insist on defending some fundamental principles of our Constitution, our reality and our civilization. This is the fundamental theme on which you have created today the joke, the controversy, a theater that is not funny. The problem, therefore - and I address my colleagues in the majority - is not to wonder how many things divide you, but whether there is still or if there has ever been anything that holds you together, because I really can't find anything. It is not the provision Zan that is divisive; it is divisive the nature of your covenant, which trembles under the weight of the bill Zan and which, in my opinion, will overflow under the weight of everything else. This is a spectacle that, unfortunately, the country does not deserve. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u68	Pursuant to Rule 109 (2) -bis of the Rules of Procedure, I give the floor to Senator Quagliariello for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u69	Mr President, I would simply like to put the speech right. The fact that Parliament is sovereign is not under discussion here; Parliament can discuss everything it wants. The problem is another, and I think it was correctly put by President Romeo in the first part of his speech. We are at a time when we have not yet left the emergency, we have 400 deaths a day, the newspapers today tell us that the curfew will continue until July. As a political and methodological option, does Parliament now have to discuss issues that divide it or is it a choice that can be postponed to another moment when the country finds itself in a different situation? I believe that this is a methodological and at the same time a political problem, and that is the problem that President Draghi has put to us. I do not go into the substance of the matter; I just want to point out that this is a divisive theme and the division is not between obscurantists, on the one hand and enlightened on the other. Doubts about this bill have been expressed by a historical feminist like Marina Terragni, by a journalist like Comencini, by Mr Concia and today by my colleague Valeria Valente in an interview on "Avvenire" of which I share everything. At a time when we have a division of substance, legitimate - the people I have mentioned do not necessarily have the word, they do not have the verb; they can also make mistakes, how can I make a mistake - this majority must bring the matter to the Commission and it must be divided or rather this is still the time of responsibility, so we will address the issue when there will be another serenity in the country? That's the speech. Nobody questions Parliament's sovereignty. What is being questioned at the moment is the responsibility of a majority. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u70	Pursuant to Rule 109 (2) -bis of the Rules of Procedure, I give the floor to Senator Crucioli for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u71	Mr President, President Romeo just now reported the words of President Draghi, almost quoteted because he said that he had pointed them out. President Draghi would have summoned the heads of the Senate of the Republic to tell them what you can and what you can't schedule. This is very serious, it is literally unacceptable. Parliament is sovereign and can discuss everything, including divisive laws and regulations. Having said that, I find the theatre you are doing surreal, which the majority of the left and center-right are doing on the law. It seems clear to me that you, putting under the lens of ideology such a complicated subject, which you are dealing with in a very superficial way, do nothing but try to cover up what you all agree on. I am referring to the fact that I have delegated all economic issues to others, to a government which has been imposed without a popular vote and which represents totally alien interests to those of the people. On April 27, next week, we will listen to how the Government wants to spend the 200 billion of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, but to date, a week from this date, we literally do not know anything and do not spend a word on it. To hide this very dangerous democratic vacuum from the country, then you set up a theater, raising your opposite banners, which are totally fake, to hide the truth: you agree on the delegation of economic issues that will bring disaster to the country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u72	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2172, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Grimani, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u73	Mr President, Senators and Senators, Government, Decree-Law No 22 of 1 March 2021 contains urgent provisions on the reorganization of the powers of the Ministries. Already approved at first reading in the Chamber, the provision consists of 12 articles, divided into 6 chapters. Article 1 makes some changes to Article 2 of Legislative Decree No. 300 of 1999, which governs the organisation of the Government. First, the Ministry of Tourism is set up, separating the functions of tourism from the Ministry for Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism, to transfer them to an ad hoc Dicastery. This increases the total number of Ministries from 14 to 15. As a result, the name of the Ministry for Cultural Heritage and Activities in the Ministry of Culture is changed. The Ministry of the ecological transition is established, which replaces the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea, combining the functions of this with those in the field of energy and mining policy carried out by the Ministry of Economic Development. Finally, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport is called the Ministry of Sustainable Infrastructure and Mobility. Article 2 regulates the transformation of the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea into the Ministry of the ecological transition, called MITE, providing, with a series of amendments to the aforementioned decree, the transfer of powers in the field of energy policy from the Ministry of Economic Development to the MITE and an overall redefinition of the functions of the latter. The new Ministry of the ecological transition shall be assigned the functions and tasks of the State relating to sustainable development and the protection of the environment, the territory and the ecosystem. The amendments to the aforementioned legislative decree also concern the list of matters attributed to the competence of the Ministry. In particular, in the field of waste, the new Ministry is also responsible for the reclamation of so-called orphan sites, in addition to nuclear safety, the regulation of irradiated fuel storage systems and radioactive waste, radiation protection, environmental radioactivity and agroenergy. It is specified that within the field of competence of the MITE include the authorisations of energy production plants of state relevance, including those from renewable sources even if located at sea, as well as the research and cultivation of hydrocarbons, also the conversion, disposal and closure of mining infrastructures for the cultivation of hydrocarbons located on the mainland and at sea; the restoration in safety of the sites, radiation protection and environmental radioactivity. It should also be noted that, within the remit of the Ministry of Economic Development to MITE, the activities of companies operating in the field of reference, the exercise of shareholder rights vis-à-vis the Energy Services Manager (GSE Spa), the approval of the regulation of the electricity market and the natural gas market and the criteria for the incentive of electricity from renewable sources, as well as the exercise of any other competence already exercised by the Ministry of Economic Development in the field of competition and regulation of utility services in the energy sectors, as well as in the field of consumer protection in coordination with the MISE. In addition, articles 174- bis and 828 of the Military Order Code are novel in order to modify the current designation of the Carabinieri Command for environmental protection in Carabinieri Command for environmental protection and ecological transition. With a novella to Law No. 124 of 2007, the Ministry of the ecological transition is added to the legal components of the Interministerial Committee for the Security of the Republic. Article 3 regulates the transfer to the Ministry of the ecological transition of the Directorate-General for Energy Supply, Efficiency and Competitiveness and of the Directorate-General for Infrastructure and Security of Energy and Geomineral Systems of the Ministry of Economic Development, including Human, Instrumental and Financial Resources, and also identifies the organic staff of the Ministry of Environmental Transition. By a decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, to be adopted within 90 days of the date of entry into force of this decree-law, the human and instrumental resources to be transferred from the Ministry of Economic Development to the new Ministry of the ecological transition are identified on time. Article 4 sets up the Interministerial Committee on the Environmental Transition (ISCED) in the Presidency of the Council of Ministers with a view to ensuring the coordination of national policies for the ecological transition and its programming. It is chaired by the President of the Council, and in its stead by the Minister, and approves the plan for ecological transition, with a view to coordinating policies on reducing greenhouse gas emissions, sustainable mobility, contrasting hydrogeological and soil consumption, water resources, air quality and circular economy. Each year, by 31 May, an annual report on the implementation of the plan shall be forwarded to the Chambers. Article 5 amends the name of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport by replacing it with that of the Ministry of Sustainable Infrastructure and Mobility. Article 6 changes the Ministry's current name for cultural goods and activities and for tourism in the Ministry of Culture and abolishes its powers in the field of tourism and for this purpose announces Legislative Decree No. 300 of 1999. It also establishes the Ministry of Tourism and regulates its powers, introducing Articles 54-a and 54-c in the aforementioned legislative decree 300 of 1999. To this end, Article 7 lays down transitional provisions concerning the transfer to the new Ministry of Tourism of human, instrumental and financial resources intended for the performance of recognized State functions. Article 8 contains a series of provisions concerning the powers of the President of the Council in the field of technological innovation and digital transition, the establishment of an interministerial committee for digital transition, an additional staff quota at the Presidency of the Council of Ministers for Innovation and Digitalisation, also in order to act as the technical and administrative secretariat of the newly established Interministerial Committee. The Digital Support Group to the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, set up temporarily by Decree-Law No 76 of 2020 for the implementation of measures to combat the emergency Covid, is made permanent with the task of ensuring to the Minister for technological innovation the professionalism required for the exercise of the tasks attributed to him by the Decree-Law, as well as to coordinate and monitor the implementation of projects in the field of digital transition, to be expected in implementation of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. Article 9 places at the head of the Presidency of the Council, i.e. the Delegated Minister for the Family, the functions of State competence in the field of the National Fund for Children and Adolescence. Consequently, the resources of the Fund are transferred from the estimates of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to the budget of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. 11.10 a.m. (Following Mr Grimani, rapporteur). Article 10 provides that, by 30 June, the Regulations of 2021 on the reorganisation of the Ministries of Economic Development, Environmental Transition, Culture, Infrastructure and Sustainable Mobility, Tourism, Labour and Social Policies, shall be adopted by decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, after resolution of the Council of Ministers, by way of derogation from the ordinary procedure laid down in Law No 400 of 1988, Article 17, which provides that government regulations shall be issued by decree of the President of the Republic. Finally, Articles 11 and 12 regulate the aspects of financial cover and the entry into force of the measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u74	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Barbaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u75	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after the spectacle offered this morning by the majority, as an exponent of the Brothers of Italy, I am even more firm in the beliefs that the party has expressed far and wide. On the genesis and work of this Government we have focused several times, highlighting its contradictions, inadequacy and distortions. This measure on the reordering of the Ministries is, I dare say, a plastic representation, the perfect synthesis of the deficiencies that I have set out in the premise. It is a measure which, far from being propaedeutic to achieving greater administrative efficiency, represents the instrument, realized with great capacity for political balance, in order to reach the wishes and needs of the parties that are part of this majority. It is the concrete testimony of the surprising and imaginative lexical formulas used in the nine denominations of the Dicasteries. It is interesting from this point of view to listen to Mr Sgarbi's speech, who spoke to the House about the names used, both innovative and empty of concreteness, but equally instrumental - as I said - in order to satisfy the demands of rhetoric and positioning of the parties that make up this heterogeneous majority. In this context, there is a resounding absence: I am referring to the lack of the Ministry of Sport. As the Brothers of Italy we have focused on this absence several times, made even more serious by the lack of answers to this sector, which is in crisis and suffering. There is no response coming, not only in terms of refreshments, but also in terms of reopenings and, above all, how and how the reopenings can be considered in order to achieve a situation under the conditions of the economies of the individual sporting activities and of the individual sports facilities. We are faced with hiccup openings, limited to a maximum of 30%, with only one certainty: 100% of the costs and the impossibility of achieving economic and financial balance. Therefore, talking about bureaucratic aspects, talking about a Ministry may seem out of place in this circumstance and offensive towards sports organisations, societies and associations that are in distress. It is not, because unfortunately this result is the son of a non-existent culture in our country, the lack of consideration for the sector and the impossibility to understand how important this matter is for the dynamics of growth of the country. They are processes that have led not only to the abolition of the Ministry of Sport, but also to the non-susistence of the measures adopted in this period by the Government, which unfortunately have left unchanged the answers: I refer both to the National Plan of Recovery and Resilience, and to the decree supports. So the possibility, or rather the need, to change course in our country, with regard to the way in which we conceive the relationship with sport, is an emergency like the others, because it generates these measures. We must move from the consolidation of the Olympic medals to the construction of a sporty Italy. This is the objective for which we must turn the trend upside down, which is then dramatically reflected also in the words of our rulers. We went from the consideration of sports activities, defined as non-essential, to the words of Minister Hope, who even defined the activities carried out inside the sports facilities as dangerous. I do not intend to dwell here on the lack of scientific evidence to prove that infection can be more conveyed within sports centres. There is ample literature from this point of view and I do not want to dwell on it. We remain on the issue of the Italian Ministry and the situation, also within the European context, trying to understand how in other countries the relationship with the world of sport is lived. In all European countries - I stress this: all - there are governmental authorities, sometimes an expression of a Ministry, sometimes an expression of other public authorities, dealing with sports. Only in Italy has this never happened. It is true that in the past there have been ministries that have dealt with this matter, all strictly without portfolio and with limited competences. What has happened in Italy over the course of these years? In the post-war period, unfortunately, our country, in order to protect and legitimize the work of the CONI, delegated to him all the tasks of a sporting character. This has led to a lack of interest on the part of the State, the CONI has managed it well, but it has not been able to do anything to identify the way in which to grow, within the country, an awareness, with respect to the world of sport, that passed through the affirmation of two of the pillars that allow the growth of a sport culture, that is the relationship with the school and that with the health. In the absence of these two pillars, it has never been possible to develop strategic reasoning for lack of interlocutors. Despite this, the CONI has nevertheless made up for the state deficiencies, because until it was autonomous financially, it was able to give answers, indeed it was the sport that gave money to the Italian State and not vice versa, and there was still the possibility, through a system definitely perfectible, to assert itself, within the international sporting context, as a functioning sport model, even with all its shortcomings. However, the Italian State has begun progressively to dismantle this system, which - I repeat - still worked. How did you dismantle it? From this point of view, the responsibility of the left is enormous. I am referring to the first Prodi Government, then Minister Veltroni, who, when going to regulate some norms concerning the life of the Italian sports organization, introduced a principle that, coming to our days, has produced degenerations: the possibility of pursuing the profit within the world of sport. Until then the lack of profit had been a foundation, a pillar, which had allowed in terms of mutuality to respond to a whole system. Because of the left, because of Veltroni, the introduction of profit has determined ways of approach to the world of sport that have accelerated its disintegration, arrived today. For two days, as we have seen, there has been nothing but talking about the Superleague: it is a speech that has been made in all sauces and is the son of the modification introduced within the systems of the sports system, which has produced a race for profit, a strong debt and a situation for which professional clubs are now preparing to find new solutions. There are of course also the responsibilities of sports institutions, but this is not the place to talk about it. It is curious and singular, perhaps even embarrassing, the silence of the CONI, but to date what we must do - and it is the lesser evil, I was talking about it a moment ago with President La Russa - is to defend sports institutions despite the great responsibilities. To conclude, there is therefore a need to reverse the course, but to do so we must absolutely start from the mother of all Italian laws, from the Constitution. Until we find a way to introduce sport as a right within the Italian Constitution, we will never be able to create the basis for building the sport culture that is lacking in our country. On behalf of my Group I announce that the inclusion of sport in the Constitution will become the battle of Brothers of Italy for the future: we have a bill, presented by Senator Iannone (Act No. 747), on which Brothers of Italy will soon center the battle and try to collect in this direction the contribution of all the rest of Parliament. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u76	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bruzzone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u77	Mr President, the decree-law we are discussing is in line with the reorganization of the powers, functions and organisation of several ministries. The general explanation of the measure was very well done by the previous rapporteur. As a component of 13a However, I intend to make some reflections on Article 2 of this decree, that is, on the setting up of the Ministry of the ecological transition, which is undoubtedly one of the great innovations brought about by the change that has taken place, which marks an important step even compared to what was said before, that is that the Government Count II is no longer there, as it is right to remember in this case too. This article regulates the transformation of the old Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea into the new Ministry. Of relevance is the transfer of energy policy competences from the Ministry of Economic Development to the new Ministry, as well as an overall redefinition of the functions of the latter. In this context different approaches are inserted on skills that were already at the head of the old Ministry. There is not only a transfer of functions, therefore, but also the competences that were already in charge of the old Ministry are declined in a different way and I am referring in particular to the recognition, finally - it was time, in my opinion, too light - of a role for the Ministry of Agricultural, Food and Forestry Policies that was not previously present. On important environmental issues, the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Agriculture have never, in recent years, been able to find joint solutions or in any case on important issues such as management, for example the fauna, has always prevailed a protectionist line of the Ministry of the Environment. Today I believe that this is no longer the case, also because the protectionist extremism of those who managed the Ministry of the Environment in the last government is no longer there and so I think we can forget it quickly. It therefore appears in a decree-law, for the first time, a sign of connection between the roles of the two ministries and this is important because, as is known, the largest part of the territory of our country is not city, nor urbanized area, but constitutes an important lung that we all want to preserve and that perhaps too often we forget that it exists. For us, however, it must be recognised that this part of the environment - which, even at this time when we are closed in the Senate Chamber, is distant from here, is outside and is not a city - allows us to live and allows us to breathe and drink in a healthy way. Well, this part of the environment cannot be abandoned to itself. Over the years, when this happened because of the extremist parkmania we have witnessed in Italy, the results have led to environmental degradation: the principle of abandoning the environment to itself, because man would not have the right or title to set foot at the end, if this environment is not managed, that is to say, leads to environmental degradation. They therefore become even more fundamental; especially today, the presence and reasonable intervention of man. The vision of this factor in an agro-forestry perspective is different from that of those who want to live it in an environment, oriented solely to feelings and forgetting rationality. Returning then to what I said before, a more desirable involvement of a Ministry that sees the environmental theme more in an agro-forestry perspective, therefore more oriented to man's livability, and less in a sentimental one, to which we have assisted - there is no doubt that often in the management of these issues rather than rationality has prevailed the sensitivity tout court - must be seen as a positive factor and should be encouraged. So let us welcome this signal and take this opportunity to recognise the important role played by those who maintain the natural environment and who today are opposed by the environmentalism of the living room, which sometimes also emerges in this House. Total respect goes to those few who manage and keep alive and healthy the extensive territory of our country. [[Applause]] There remains the need to better manage the boundaries of these functions between the two ministries: the management of fauna does not mean extreme protection - and in this country we are seeing it - that must instead be reserved to the species that need it, not to those consolidated and well present. A healthy, natural and well-managed environment allows man to take air, water, vegetables and animals. We will say it infinitely: for us, man is also part of biodiversity. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u78	He's enlisted to speak Senator Four. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u79	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I am going straight to the subject. The establishment of the Ministry of the ecological transition is the great novelty launched by the Movimento 5 Stars for the green revolution of our country and collected by the newborn Government. The lexicon of the ecological transition must not imply an accomplished knowledge of an already established goal; rather, it must indicate a continuous path towards a full ecosustainability of the human processes, based on a profound change of human thought. So far we have pursued the blinding glows of GDP, which have condemned the planet to suffocation. Is it not now time for the Bes project, fair and sustainable well-being as a marker for human well-being? This change of socio-economic paradigm requires a transition to true progress. Science will come to our rescue, but we will always have to throw our hearts beyond any obstacle that we will find on our way, and then jump together. It would therefore be desirable to add in substance an adjective: ecological transition and solidarity. Perhaps it would be even more appropriate to speak of ecological conversion, as well as, with ingenious intuition, did thirty years ago the unforgettable Alex Langer, ecologist and supporter of the lentius, profundius, suavius, slower, deeper and sweeter, the three key words of ecology. Then the concept was taken up, in a religious perspective, by the last three pontiffs and superbly by Francis in his encyclical "Laudato si". Ecological conversion is an expression that has a subjective, ethical, and an objective, social aspect. It is the change of our lifestyle, of our work, of our consumption and of our relationship with others and with the environment. Conversion is ecological because it takes into account the limits of the environment in which we live, mainly temporal: both because we are mortal in a world that survives us, thus touching our most intimate existential sphere, and because they remind us that we cannot consume more than what nature is able to produce, nor pollute more than the environment can regenerate. Finally, an ecologically virtuous journey will now begin in Italy too. The new political galaxy Mite (Ministry of the ecological transition) receives the legacy of the old Mattm (Ministry of the Environment and Protection of the Territory and the Sea) and has a new Department of Energy and Climate, as well as two Directorates General, coming from the Ministry of Economic Development, for energy supply, efficiency and competitiveness, for the infrastructure and security of energy and geominerary systems. The Mite is attributed to the old tasks of Mattm, some tasks of Mise and new tasks in the field of circular economy, strategic planning for the reduction of polluting emissions, sustainable transport, production and energy market, as well as reclamation of polluted sites. The Ministry's rethinking in terms of organicity, simplification and efficiency of national energy policies is good. The allocation of functions to combat climate change as well as environmental savings, improved air quality and sustainable finance is also good. These are the three pillars from which to start to rethink the economic models to which we have been accustomed since the first industrial revolution. For something to really change, it is necessary that economics and the environment become two sides of the same coin. The ecological transition, in fact, is not against the economy, but through it: it is an approach that any Ministry should support; we all know that there can be no economic development without protecting the environment, because it must become sustainable and sustainable. In order for this to be the case, the protection of the territory and the sea must also be increased. How could we talk about ecological transition with a polluted, abused, insecure, not sufficiently monitored and known territory? Hydrogeological failure, soil consumption, internal water bodies, the sea, coasts, land of fires, natural parks and biodiversity must be the starting point for any activity. In a geologically fragile country, the Mite must implement with organicity the necessary strategic interventions for the mitigation, reduction and prevention of natural risks. The protection of citizens and the territory from environmental risks is one of the issues to be resolved in order to revive national development. In order to optimise the work of the planned Interministerial Committee for the ecological transition, a technical and administrative secretariat for the planning, monitoring and implementation of the Plan for the ecological transition can be set up to become a reference point for institutions, government agencies, research bodies and private individuals. For the planning of interventions - and not only in emergency - we can create a model of governance that uses the best competences of our country at national and local level, respecting the principles of subsidiarity and loyal collaboration. To better manage the resources available to us (I think of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan) new operational models can be implemented that guarantee efficiency, effectiveness, cost-effectiveness, simplicity and transparency in the use of state and European financial resources for the protection of the environment and the sustainable development of the territory. Enough with useless and harmful delays for the realization of the works, we no longer have time for the excuses. May the Mite be the solution to the Gordian node of all the costly policies planned for ecological transition. Since the goal of ecological transition is dynamic, it cannot be enclosed in an improbable algorithm, given the multiple variables of the system (some of which are ethical), otherwise the risk is that to correct errors we commit others, perhaps even worse. Nuclear power stations are an example, like magic incinerators that make ecoballs disappear. That is why I prefer ecological conversion: to establish the light that must illuminate political action, scientific research, sustainability, justice, freedom, sharing and solidarity. On the basis of these cornerstones, all the political and innovative potential of this Ministry will have to be developed. Good work, Minister Cingolani. Finally, I would like to remind you that tomorrow, April 22nd, marks the 50th anniversary of Earth Day. [[Applause]] The World Weather Organization, in a report published yesterday, argued that the rise in temperature from pre-industrial times to today is 1.2 degrees centigrade, so we are very close to the figure of 1.5, which is our international objective. Guterres said that we are on the brink of the climate abyss and invited all nations to make 2021 the year of action. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u80	He's enlisted to speak Senator Pianasso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u81	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, Senators and members of the Government, I believe that the decision to rearrange the Ministries has been wise and responsive to the needs of the country. In particular, it is emblematic the creation of the Ministry of Tourism, which responds to a dual need of common sense and necessity. I speak of common sense because it was not conceivable that Italy, which undoubtedly boasts the greatest artistic, architectural and natural heritage in the world, with its thousands of kilometers of beach, its famous mountains and art cities that the whole world envies, did not have a Ministry dedicated to tourism, a sector that alone represents an important part of our GDP. I also speak of necessity because now more than ever, after the terrible ax to the tourist revenues caused by the pandemic, the sector needs the highest concentration of efforts by the government, to find solutions to the crisis and strategies for the right recovery. Let's just think about what 2020 represented for the thousands of Italian companies operating in the tourism sector, from hotels to restaurants, tour operators, bed and breakfasts, tourist guides: many billion euros of revenues have been lost in a single year and there are a number of failed companies and people who have lost their jobs that perhaps we haven't even calculated yet. The first quarter of 2021 certainly did not represent a reversal of the trend; indeed, if possible, it has further worsened the picture, since the whole sector that works on the winter ski season has seen the turnover reduced practically to zero. Only in the coming months will the dramatic economic and employment effects of this long and dark year of pandemics come to light. The coronavirus has left behind a deep trail of destruction from the point of view of the entrepreneurial activities and the jobs they guaranteed; to be quickly reborn from the ashes they need planning and an overall strategy. I therefore find it sensible and logical that a vital sector for our economy such as tourism has a dedicated Ministry. There were too many skills and areas of intervention that were too wide for it to be combined with cultural heritage. On the other hand, with regard to the change in the name of the Ministries of the Environment and Infrastructure, I believe that it is right to give greater attention to the respect and protection of the environment that surrounds us. I say this as a senator coming from a very small mountain town in the Province of Turin, of not even 1,000 inhabitants, where attention to the protection of the territory is not a policy, but a way of life for centuries. The care for the environment that surrounds us and the improvement of the air that we breathe can only play a fundamental role in the policies of... [[The microphone automatically switches off]] . . avoiding the excesses, at the same time, of certain facade initiatives, which have an echo on the media inversely proportional to the practical impacts on the environment. The problem of air quality in our metropolis with scooters is not solved... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have to come to the conclusion, Senator Pianasso, because you only had three minutes. PIANASSO (L-SP-PSd'Az). ...and preventing the less well-off from circulating for reasons of work with their vehicles, if they do not have the money to buy new, more modern and greener ones. It is easy to be an environmentalist for those who have the electric SUV of 50,000 euros and the penthouse in the historic center; it is much less so for the worker or the craftsman with a diesel utility and a small apartment in the suburbs, that you have to boat between the needs of work, the traffic increasingly congested and the bans of circulation. I hope that the Ministry for the ecological transition will work in the wake of that concreteness, practicality and common sense that so far have characterized the work of the Dragon Government, which in this sense has represented, from the outset, a clear turning point compared to the previous experience, marked by direct Facebook, scooters and wheelchairs. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u82	Dividing time in a few minutes makes the surgery difficult, so thank you for synthesizing it, Senator Pianasso. The Groups should perhaps reflect on this excessive fragmentation of the time available.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u83	He is registered to speak Senator Croatti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u84	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure under consideration for the 5 Star Movement has been a cornerstone of the formation of this Government, both in Article 2, in which the Ministry of the Environment becomes the Ministry of the ecological transition, and in Article 6, in which the establishment of the Ministry of Tourism is arranged. The formation of this government was born on this point: when all the other political groups agreed to its formation, the 5 Star Movement, at the center, called for the establishment of a Ministry of the ecological transition, which allows to structure a new economy based on the environment, with new enterprises and new jobs, but above all less work and dealt with in a better way. If the pandemic has taught us anything, colleagues, it is precisely that, if the environment is well, we are also well. Too much has happened in these years without there being a serious and ecological approach to the path of our country. One of our stars is the environment; we have always carried it forward, even in previous governments. I would like to reiterate some of the measures that proceed in the wake of the ecological transition: the 110% superbonus, for example, is aimed at an ecological renewal of our country, respecting the environment; I quote other measures such as the bonus earthquake or the climate decree, which sees the establishment of environmental ecological zones, and measures such as good mobility; there are also other issues that we have taken forward, such as the bonus for mobility and electric sustainability, which led to the production of 2 million more bikes (almost 20 percent more) than in 2019. These are very important figures in the crisis period that we faced in 2020. [[Applause]] With the waste decree we were able to convert diapers and tires that went to landfills and we defined a hydrogen strategy. Other topics that we have taken forward at this time, always in the wake of the energy transition, are the energy communities, which are a basic point on which we have invested and which I see many now copy. There are even press conferences that promote this path, which we set up in the Industry Commission. It was a very important job, which will give society and citizens the opportunity to produce energy in their own community, even to earn energy and to intervene to help people in difficulty. [[Applause]] All these measures go along the path of energy efficiency, but the paradigm is completely different. We must reduce consumption and give a life cycle to what is produced. Another very important topic for us is contained in Article 6. I am referring to the establishment of the Ministry of Tourism, which the 5 Star Movement has been proposing for years: it must have an industrial policy. The approach to tourism must be completely reviewed. There is also the possibility to use the National Recovery and Resilience Plan (PNRR) for the management of investments and the relaunch of our tourism. We are experiencing a truly dramatic moment for this sector, which today suffers in a truly important way. It represents 13.2% of our country's GDP and in some regions - I would like to say - even 25. It is in the face of a dramatic difficulty and in 2020 it lost over 60 billion. 2021, unfortunately, did not start very well for the first lockdown we had to face. There is therefore so much ground to be recovered for this Ministry, which - I remind everyone - was repealed in 1993 following a repealing referendum, unfortunately under the wing of the cancelled public financing of the parties, to which we have renounced, while many others have found a way to re-interception that money. [[Applause]] On that occasion, unfortunately, an important Ministry has disappeared, which now, however, will have a central role. I would like to thank the Minister for the work he is doing so far: he will really have a very important task. I would like to stress that the fact that he has left the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities does not mean that culture is not appreciated or that it is not part of tourism. There are two things that are extremely connected, but there are other sectors such as businesses, trade fairs and the food and wine sector that have a much more particular chance of receiving attention. The Ministry will have a very important management booth right now. Unfortunately, for years we have sold tourism in a widespread way, without making us understand the greatness of our country and the uniqueness of the tourist destination. The directing booth that will develop within this Ministry will be really important to bring abroad a unique voice of the most beloved country and, above all, more dreamed of by all tourists. Mr President, I appeal above all to the new Minister and, in particular, to the new Government. Last year President Conte in this period pushed a lot and loudly to make the holidays in Italy and to stay in our territory for holidays made in Italy. Last year 85% of the people who went on holiday chose Italy. They could also choose other countries, but they stayed to help entrepreneurs and our territory and for a more sustainable economy. I make everyone, the Minister and the Government an appeal to collect what President Conte said last year: choose the holidays made in Italy, Italy and Italian entrepreneurs. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u85	He's enlisted to speak Senator Saviane. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u86	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Senate, the approval of the draft law under consideration, of the conversion of the decree-law containing urgent provisions on the reorganization of the powers of the Ministries, puts at the centre the importance of the newborn Ministry of the ecological transition, which brings together the old Ministry of the Environment, the Territory and the Sea, in fact combining the functions that characterized it with those related to the energy and mining policy proper to the Ministry of Economic Development. Personally I look with confidence to this Ministry, because, compared to the previous one, in addition to the functions of environmental protection, it also has those relative to its valorization without neglecting the aspect of ecosustainability. It is therefore a new integrated and transversal vision, which includes the concept of environment in its broadest sense, which is central and crucial, as it will have to consolidate an approach not only limited to protection and custody, but totally aimed at the sustainable development of the territories. The integrated vision of which I have just spoken can include agriculture and, with it, tourism, two complementary and inseparable realities, capable of creating opportunities for those who live the territories throughout the year and for those who choose them as a place of rest and vacation. The Province in which I live, Belluno, is a concrete example to understand how there is the possibility to protect the environment, to enhance it and to make it an opportunity. All of you know without a doubt the beauty of the Dolomites, the landscapes dotted with pastures and pastures, as well as the precious and well-kept woods and lakes. All this heritage is still there, intact and visible: it has been handed down over the centuries thanks to man's ability to live in harmony with nature. The human being has always been able to enjoy mountain products, devoting himself to agriculture, breeding, forestry and the consequent processing of wood. Unfortunately, this splendid mechanism jammed about forty years ago, when the strong industrialization downstream changed the balance between man and mountain. There has been a gradual abandonment of the care of the high territories, with a consequent uncontrolled expansion of the woods, cause before the hydrogeological failure. In recent years the Veneto Region, in line with the European directives, has financed, through important projects, the resumption of mountain agriculture. This opportunity, linked then to the crisis of 2007, has meant that many young people have returned to the care of the earth, enhancing its products and creating a virtuous circle, both for distribution and for consumption. The commitment, in fact, is to propose the products also in the restaurant, which very often is starred by us, proof of their quality. Another important aspect, not to be underestimated and to be taken seriously, is that of the care of the woods and the consequent chain of wood. In these months of crisis there have been negative aspects: since January, for example, the prices of so-called timber sawn products, which we import from Austria, have been rising by almost 100%. Even more penalising, however, it is the difficulty to find suppliers that guarantee deliveries in adequate time. This puts our furniture and packaging industries, the construction industry and more into difficulty. I stress that wood is the ecological, sustainable and renewable product par excellence. Today, PEFC (Programme Far Endersement of Forest Certification) and FSC (Forest stewardship cancil) certifications guarantee end customers that products come from sustainably managed forests. However, I would like to remind you that the sustainable management of the woods was conceived by the Republic of Venice, which needed a lot of wood: the whole city is built on wooden trunks for the solidification of the lagoon, and we think of all the ships necessary for the activity both mercantile and war. Well, Venice, which had large forests in the North-East and in Slovenian and Croatian territory, was concerned that, for each tree cut for its own needs, another was planted. This allowed her to go to the seas and at the same time to bring to us the forests still intact. My hope, therefore, is that we will find a particular attention to all the topics that I have just listed, returning, as well as to mountain agriculture, which is already a beautiful reality, to forestry, the agriculture of the wood, with a relaunch of the wood supply chain with the on-site processing of logs and abandoning the current practice that provides for the processing in Austria and the resale in the markets of the United States. Only then will we be able to save the environment and industries and avoid a depopulation of the mountain that now seems inexorable. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u87	She is registered to speak Senator Pavanelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u88	Mr President, members of the Government, fellow senators and fellow senators, the issues related to the expressions "environmental question" and "climate change" are rapidly becoming central to the increasingly frequent emergencies caused by damage to terrestrial and marine ecosystems due to human activities, due to industrial models that are no longer sustainable in order to preserve the current balances that regulate the environment and the climate of our planet. The so-called Earth overshoot day (EOD), literally the day of Earth's surpassing, in which humanity consumes entirely the resources produced by our planet throughout the year, is anticipated periodically. It is estimated that in 2050 humanity will consume twice as much as the Earth can produce. So this is a situation that will become unsustainable in the not distant future for people's living and health conditions. At international level, States have begun to become aware that the time available to intervene and reverse this trend is less and less and in fact have signed several conventions: at the Earth Summit in Rio in 1992; the Kyoto Protocol in 1997; the Paris Agreement in 2015, with an action plan to limit global warming. To these agreements we must add the United Nations 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the European green deal, with the aim of achieving so-called climate neutrality, namely zeroing net greenhouse gas emissions by 2050 in the European Union area as the world's first continent to achieve this important result. [[Applause]] However, it is reported this morning that the European Union has reached an agreement with the objective of reducing emissions by at least 55% by 2030. The data from Ispra say that Italy's CO2 fall compared to 1990 is now around 17%. This means that Italy must reduce its emissions by 38% in less than nine years. From this international context we understand that the environmental challenges that our country faces are very complex and concern every sector of the economy. Changes that I would call epochs, energy production, public and private mobility, food production and infrastructure construction, civil and industrial buildings must consider new technologies and materials, as well as new ways of thinking and acting. Let us think, for example, of the cradle-to-cradle approach, from cradle to cradle, i.e. by implementing industrial processes to create products or services that have a positive impact on both man and the environment. All this goes in the direction of the ecological transition to the point of arrival of the so-called circular economy, as the product is validated with five aspects: the health of the materials and their reuse, the management of water resources, the use of renewable energy and social equity. For all these reasons, the Ministry of the ecological transition becomes central and indispensable for the implementation of the objectives imposed by the aforementioned international agreements, especially the European green deal, as well as for the realization of the Next generation EU, which will bring to our country 209 billion euros. I would like to mention the political and diplomatic capacities of Giuseppe Conte in this regard. [[Applause]] to achieve this great result. The theme of ecological transition is central to us of Movimento 5 Stars and not in words, but with the facts. Just look at the 110 percent superbonus and energy communities, which are heading in the direction of energy efficiency, environmental mitigation and, at the same time, social welfare, towards the democratisation of energy, including the reduction of the final cost for users. Returning to the reordering of the Ministries, another important step forward is the introduction of the Ministry of technological innovation and the digital transition that, precisely because of the challenges that will be called upon to support in the field of change of production and consumption models, becomes equally fundamental. In order to maintain competitiveness with respect to the rest of the world, for Italy it will be increasingly important to stimulate the transition to new eco-sustainable technologies and to make it more accessible and bureaucratically simple the realization of new entrepreneurial projects in every economic sector. In this context, it will be essential to have a better digitalisation of public administration services, which is truly efficient and usable by individuals and businesses, so that many economic activities can be relaunched and new entrepreneurs can enter, with the consequent creation of new jobs. With an efficient and fast system of access to the Internet throughout the country, not only in the big cities, but also in the remotest countries of Italy, we can try to create opportunities for an economic and entrepreneurial fabric in which to date there have been abandonment and desertification. We need to create tools and opportunities for the many small entrepreneurs, farmers and craftsmen who represent one of the strengths of the entire Italian economy, so that they can develop their entrepreneurial skills, increasing their personal wealth and that of Italy in general. Our country is called to face the challenges of climate upheaval with awareness and knowledge. Therefore, technological and digital innovation and ecological transition will have to be considered as primary in the coming years, indeed, already today, since the 2050 deadline and, even earlier, the 2030 deadline are, in terms of environmental protection and collective welfare, starting with public health, to be considered practically around the corner. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u89	Senator Pisani Pietro is enrolled to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u90	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Decree-Law No 22, which we are examining today, is not simply a Ministerial Decree, but in reality it is the way in which the Government gave its first responses to the citizens. I am referring first of all to the creation of a Ministry of Tourism. In these months I have had the opportunity to listen to many operators in the tourism sector: they are desperate. The pandemic crisis, which has caused dramatic losses to our entire economy, has completely devastated the tourism sector. The data are alarming and the interventions put in place in the first phase of the health emergency have proved inadequate and insufficient. 2020 ended with a 236 million loss of attendance, with an average drop of more than 54 percent compared to the previous year, with peaks that in some locations exceeded 80 percent. 2021, as was unfortunately imaginable, began showing a further deterioration, also due to the continuing blockade of international flows, the prohibition of moving from one region to another and the limitations on the activities and services that characterize the trips for vacation and work. There are activities devastated by this crisis. In addition to the travel agencies and companies in the self-service sector, which have had a difficult time to overcome, there are in crisis the ski resorts and lifts, the areas that deal with spas and wellness, catering, amateur sports activities, museums, conferences, meetings, fairs, events, shows and more. The birth of the Ministry of Tourism is a clear signal to underline the importance of the role that the Government recognizes to tourism, to offer concrete support to the efforts of the companies that today suffer and that, at the end of the pandemic, will be called to confront with a fierce international competition. The new Ministry, which is included in the overall vision of the Government plan set out in this provision, that is, in the will to proceed decisively towards the digitalization of the Country, can have great prospects. I am thinking of how important it would be to support the increasingly digitised development of companies operating in the tourism sector, the bureaucratic simplification of the requirements to be met by companies in the sector, the use of new technologies in this field, the activation of training courses aimed at knowledge and the use of digital tools. There are many challenges and the measure under consideration has tried to explain the organisation that the Government wanted to address them. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u91	Senator Mollame is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u92	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating a measure for the reorganization of the powers of the Ministries, which is part of a fundamental logic of this Government, that of facing a terrible period of our national and global history. I am thinking only of three points, first of all of the creation of the Ministry of Tourism, which I believe is fundamental because, as has already been said in this House, this sector of our economy, but also of our history and - I dare say - our environment, is the one that is paying the highest price for just over a year. Therefore, hoping to emerge from this terrible period, it is essential that there is a Ministry dedicated to this extraordinary sector of our economy. The other aspect that I think is fundamental is to have merged energy policies with the former Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea, today called the Ministry of the ecological transition. In the last one hundred and fifty years of human history we have turned our planet upside down and, as someone recalled earlier, tomorrow is the celebration of earth's day. We have turned it upside down as it has never happened in millions of years and we have basically done so because we have extraordinary energy needs, so our future will be based on this very subject, on how we want to produce the energy we need. I close, Mr President, by also reminding you that, precisely because of the pandemic, our children, our infants are suffering a lot and it is essential that we have moved the National Fund for Childhood and Adolescence into the powers of the Prime Minister or, in his stead, the Ministry of the Family. We have a fundamental duty, which is to leave this world to our children in better conditions than we have found it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u93	Senator La Pietra is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u94	Mr President, Members of the Government who have not been present (but are all right), my fellow senators, such as the Brothers of Italy, since the beginning of the process of this measure in the Chamber of Deputies, we had hoped for something that could actually bring about a reorganization with a view to optimising the ministerial system. The many amendments tabled to both the House and this House are proof of this, all aimed at improving the efficiency and effectiveness of the Ministries. Unfortunately, the course of the process and the conclusion of this first phase that led the text to second reading to the Senate has largely disappointed us; this is not because of the almost total rejection of our amendments, but because of the logic that we have seen driving this reorganization, which seemed to us more like manual Cencelli than inspired by efficiency criteria, because of the division of competences and the rebalancing of the weights and balances of each individual Ministry according to the political reference of the Minister. I am thinking in particular of the many competences attributed to the Ministry of the ecological transition, which has absorbed important delegations, which were up to now the responsibility of the Ministry of Economic Development; delegations such as could generate problems of efficiency, considering that it will have to deal not only with the important sector of energy, but also with the consortia of reclamation, hydrogeological failure and nuclear, that is, a whole series of competences that have already forced to foresee committees and management cabins that we consider difficult to manage. Perhaps the thought was more to weaken the Ministry of Economic Development than to optimize that of ecological transition. On the other hand, the Ministry of the ecological transition, which has replaced - as we know - the Ministry of the Environment, with a name that already identifies an aspect in my opinion demagogic, is the last bulwark of the grill policy; indeed, more than the last bulwark I would say the last excuse to justify its entry into this Government. We have moved from the "mai" with Salvini to the "mai" with the "bibbiano" party; from the "mai" with Berlusconi to the "mai" with the banker Draghi.In short, we needed a fig leaf to justify the umpteenth turn of a movement that betrayed everything in order to remain glued to the chairs of power. The Ministry of the ecological transition was the right price, but this is something that voters will be able to assess. What worries us, however, is the fate of the country, thinking about energy policies, a fundamental element for the national economic system. All this is put in the hands of the party of the "no": no to the TAP, no to the drills, no to the TAV; no to everything, but yes to the armchairs. Another aspect that has deeply disappointed us is the cancellation of the Ministry of Sport, but we have already seen - as my colleague Senator Barbaro has better grasped - the negative aspect of this choice. Let me just point out that this choice is wrong also in the light of the lack of proper attention to a sector deeply in crisis because of the choices made by this Government to contain the contagion from Covid, but it is also inappropriate in view of the important events of a world character that will see the Italian sport engaged in important challenges in the near future. On the other hand, a positive aspect is found in the constitution of the Ministry of Tourism. After the last changes from one Ministry to another, which saw the tourism treated as a simple delegation to be attributed to this or that other Ministry, it was finally understood that this sector is fundamental for the entire national economy and that it had to have its own recognition and attention. I would like to recall, here, the battles of Brothers of Italy and Giorgia Meloni, who have always pushed in this direction, presenting also draft laws that intervened decisively on the distribution of the various competences, also towards the Regions. All right, then, the realization of this Ministry, but it is a pity that it is only partially done, because unfortunately it is not endowed with financial independence, since the Ministry of Tourism is established, but without portfolio. Now we need to give legs to words and we need real and concrete resources for this sector, which has been totally brought to its knees. Dear colleagues, the form of which the Count Governments have abounded is no longer enough, and even the present Government seems to have taken the same habit - which you fill your mouth with. I am thinking in fact of the various decree-laws, with rather captivating names, such as decree dignity, care Italy or liquidity, in which, though, entering the substance, was little substance. We have now moved on to the names of the Ministries, such as the ecological transition, which I have already mentioned, or like the Ministry of Transport, which has become the Ministry of Sustainable Infrastructure and Mobility. What does that mean? Maybe, even in this case, it's a tip to the grill ideology? The truth is that in the majority there are two currents of thought, perhaps even more than two, opposed and difficult to reconcile: on the one hand there are those who want to invest and build and on the other who oppose everything. We are in fact talking about fundamental infrastructures for the country - railway, road, airport and maritime - and the vital connections for the economic and social life of the nation. We can't just play with titles without giving substance. In a few days' time, ladies and gentlemen, 100 percent of the students are expected to return to school. I would therefore ask if anyone has raised the question of how to organise public transport, which, while maintaining the link of 50% of places, needs more means, more staff and more resources, in order to guarantee the service, while maintaining health security on board. For months we have been denouncing that public transport is one of the potential places of transmission of the virus and does not say that Brothers of Italy, but the Nuclei antisophisticazione e sanità (NAS). If the Government's response is to introduce sustainable mobility into the Ministry's name, it seems a little bit short, it is not enough and it is not enough. Finally, Mr President, I would like to mention a subject which is of particular concern to us, on which we have long presented draft laws, both to the Senate and to the House of Deputies, at the first signature of President Giorgia Meloni. From these draft laws we have extrapolated some amendments, which we have tabled to this measure and which, in essence, call for the establishment of a Ministry of the Sea. Unfortunately, this issue is often ignored and sometimes relegated to a simple delegation, which is wrong to a strategic sector for the nation. Italy is in fact a natural platform in the middle of the Mediterranean. This strategic position has always conditioned our history, which is in fact linked to the sea and navigation, just remember the marine Republics and our primacy as great navigators and explorers. Today the navigation is even more central for the transport of the goods, so much that 90 percent of the world traffic of the goods travels by sea and approximately 25 percent in the Mediterranean and Italy is found to have more and more a fundamental geographic position and privileged. Yet this advantage has not been exploited, because there is no policy capable of understanding and developing the geopolitical role of Italy, nor of understanding how much the blue economy is and could be, if well supported, an extraordinary resource for our nation. This short-sightedness, which is reflected in infrastructure and bureaucratic delays, not only makes us lose many opportunities, but risks losing importance to countries more able to meet the needs of companies working at the blue economy. We cannot fail to mention the completely forgotten fisheries sector, which, on the other hand, could not only represent an important lever of employment, but which, with its products, can relaunch a high quality agri-food and fish system: just think that 85% of fish consumed in Italy is imported. For this reason and for many other reasons we are convinced that a Ministry of the sea can put together all those competences that today are scattered in thousand different offices - whether they concern the shipbuilding, the harbour infrastructures, the rules of the fishing or the protection of the sea - but that, grouped under a single direction, could give new impetus to the economy of the sea and give us greater centrality in the international consensus. Unfortunately, the proposal was rejected: too bad, we lost another chance. However, we will continue with our responsible and patriotic opposition, which distinguishes our political action always for the interests of Italians. In conclusion, Mr President, I think I can say that today we are talking about the reordering of the Ministries, but, also in the light of the debate we have witnessed this morning in this House, perhaps the majority should focus on the reordering of ideas, which we see somewhat confused and contradictory. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u95	Senator Ferrazzi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u96	Mr President, the name tells the story, the ancients said that, when we talk about renaming and a different name of a Ministry, we should talk about a content, not just a label. We know that in this case - and I will of course focus on the new Ministry of the ecological transition - with this renaming, with this new appointment, with this new name we should talk about a new content of the thing to which the name is given and assigned. Historically we are about to abandon the designation "Ministry of the Environment" and the protection of the territory and the sea "to face a new border, a new possibility, that is, the Ministry of the much desired, as said and announced, ecological transition. We are not the first nation to have dealt with such an operation; we know, for example, that other European countries have done so in advance, but we felt that it was the right time to deal with this issue. This is the right time because it responds exactly to what we mean by the environment and the protection and development of the environment: not just a sectoral issue, Mr President, which concerns a niche in the context of political, institutional, social and cultural choices in general, but a way of reading all policies. Let us be careful, because this is exactly the indication that comes from the European Union through many acts; for example, it emerges with great force in the recovery plan and therefore with the recovery fund that is not only a great investment in the logic of the environment and sustainable development, but that every type of political choice has to deal with its environmental impact. The climate and environmental emergency, in fact, is the emergency of time and if we endanger the ecosystem of which we are part, we question our present and our future. This is the basic cultural consideration that moves the operation of the European Union, the recovery fund and therefore the reinterpretation of the name that redefines it. We are talking about ecological transition, Mr President. We imagine as an ecological transition a series of activities and initiatives, but, even before that, a strategic vision, a cultural awareness. What is the first great awareness I mentioned earlier? That man is part of the ecosystem and biodiversity: there is no division between the anthropic activity, between the human being and the system, let's call it created or as we want, depending on the cultural reference points of each. I would not like to quote, but I do, Pope Francis, who goes much further: referring to the theology of St. Bonaventure, he even believes that the Trinitarian image is within every being created, therefore not only of man, but of all the cosmos, for which the relationship is consubstantial with things. The relationship between man and the environment, between man and created is therefore consubstantial and when man calls into question the quality of the environment, he questions himself, because structurally, ontologically man is a person, so it is a relationship. This cultural assumption is very favourable to me and makes me say that the vision of ecological transition within an integral ecology policy is not only the only one able to safeguard the planet, but also the one necessary for economic growth, to keep social sustainability together with work, economic and environmental sustainability. This is the integral vision that starts from a cultural vision for which person is equivalent to relation, not only between people, but with the world, with the cosmos and I use this term not by chance, because it is exactly the opposite of chaos, even in ancient philosophy. The cosmos is therefore the place where man, building healthy relationships, recognizes the value of nature and builds a virtuous game. In order to respond, among others, to a Senator of the League who intervened before, for us the care of the nature of which we are part is not merely attention to protection, but is also cultivation: nature is also protected by cultivating it; the activity of man, when he recognizes the value of a thing, respects it and brings it back to what is originally, is an operation of valorization. Protection and valorization, therefore, are exactly two sides of the same coin. Mr President, I have kept the tone of this speech very high, because I believe that the change of name must correspond to a change of culture first, and then there are all the repercussions, because we know that there is the activation of the Interministerial Committee for the ecological transition, the so-called ISCED, which approves the plan for the ecological transition made of detailed points, which we have repeatedly placed in this House and in the Commissions: the policy on the reduction of greenhouse gases, sustainable and gentle mobility, the contrast to the hydrogeological failure, the contrast to soil consumption, water resources and related infrastructure, air quality and the circular economy. We very much hope, President, that this new Ministry will define, with the change of name, a change of pace necessary for our future and for our children. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u97	Perhaps you will be interested to know that you did not miss even a second and that you concluded your speech exactly in the time set.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u98	Senator Corrado is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u99	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you will remember that the phoenix, the mythical bird also mentioned by Herodotus, was periodically reborn from its ashes completely renewed and more splendid than before. I wish I could use this metaphor to allude to the newborn Ministry of Culture, but I can't. Since 1974, in fact, the Dicastery to which the Republic entrusted our cultural heritage has changed its skin on several occasions without changing its essence. Otherwise, the reorganization of the powers of the ministries that we face today clearly establishes the birth of the Ministry of Culture, but at the same time certifies the death of the Ministry of Cultural Heritage (I call it so for convenience) and his death is a stunted death, a death without abandonment would have said the poet, a death above all without hope of resurrection. Recalling the most famous perhaps of the eulogies, the monologue of Marco Antonio for the death of Julius Caesar in the homonymous Shakespearean drama, I would say that I come to bury that Ministry, not to praise it. Franceschini says that the Ministry of Cultural Heritage was obsolete, grave fault, and that everyone already called it the Ministry of Culture, so there is no need to regret the change of denomination and Franceschini is a man of honor. But I'm going to tell you about the Ministry that's gone. After the excellent work carried out in 1964-1967 by the Commission, which was also called Franceschini as a mockery of destiny, the Ministry wanted by Giovanni Spadolini was established by Decree-Law No. 657 of 14 December 1974, converted into Law No. 5 of 29 January 1975. What's the point of a new ministry? To implement Article 9 of the Constitution. Therefore, to ensure the organic protection of goods of absolute importance to the nation, that is to say to the Italian people, such as the historical artistic heritage and the landscape (protection that is a primary constitutional interest) and to manage them in that perspective. Health, education and cultural heritage are constitutional pillars, well established on the basis of solidarity, therefore essential and priority. However, Franceschini argues, the Ministry for Cultural Heritage was obsolete. And Franceschini is a man of honor. The organization of the new department was ensured by the decree of the President of the Republic of 3 December 1975 n. 805 and, a couple of years later, Law 285 of 1977 guaranteed flesh and blood to the machine just put into operation. The thousands of young people hired in that season have gone and are retired for about three years, clearing out the staff of the department to the point that, theoretically, it now counts 19,000 units (from 25,000 that were before the cuts), but in actual service there are only 12,300, destined to fall to 10,000 by 2025. Cold premeditation has not been used to fill this predictable and expected hemorrhage and to transmit the accumulated experience. Think only of the 2019 contest for 1052 assistants to the use, reception and vigilance (the so-called FAV), blocked after the pre-election test, officially by the pandemic, without being heard anymore. Better for you to ignore, colleagues, why what would happen if you knew? Should you betray the man of honor who destroyed Spadolini's creature? But let's go back to history: with Legislative Decree no. 368 of 1998 the Ministry for Cultural Heritage and Activities was established, which inherited what already belongs to the predecessor, with the addition, however, of skills on sport and the promotion of the show in all its forms. At the end of 2007 the new reorganisation regulation was approved and on 2 July 2009 the DPR No 91 was again intervened, strengthening the protection action and recognising centrality to the protection of the landscape. You all loved that Mibac once, colleagues, not without cause. What cause prevents you from weeping him today? The decline began in 2013, with the Letta Government, when the Mibac claims competence on tourism, already of the Presidency of the Council. The Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism (Mibact) was born. Mr Franceschini, who took over in 2014 and has, to date, collected more than 1700 days as a member of the Executive, with four different governments, realizes in a two-year period the bulk of the reforms, sending the President of the Council Renzi, that upset the dicastery. In this way, we witness the amalgamation of the offices of protection, from which are born the so-called holistic superintendences, experiment already failed in Italy in the twenties and thirties, and failed in Sicily, where today the administrative conditions are no longer guaranteed to exercise the protection, and we witness the birth, doubly monstrous, of the museums and institutes with special autonomy. This is how the most becera logical partitioning for clientele purposes took over the scene, completely undermining the merit. It was then, colleagues, that the powerful heart broke. In 2018, with the Government Count 1, the Ministry for Cultural Heritage and Activities, orphan of tourism associated with agricultural policies, was launched. Already with the Government Count 2 and Franceschini's unusual return to the Roman College in autumn 2019, the favorite toy returns to his rapacious hands to parasitize the Ministry. I, you, all of you, fell at that moment. Just remember the tens of millions of euros taken away without hesitation last year from those priority institutional tasks to finance the so-called 18app. What does not produce profits to be shared among the private, in fact, does not interest the sinister of culture and its court of fortunes, for which, as you know, with paragraph 4, suppressed in the Chamber, had asked another 700,000 euros for the Mic. I have tabled an amendment, precisely on the name of the new Ministry, which is not marginal. Culture, in fact, is in itself a vague and random concept, while the previous denomination contained the two-fold and distinct reference to the functions relating to: (a) the protection, management and exploitation of cultural assets and (b) the promotion of cultural activities, respectively attributable to the tasks assigned to the Republic by paragraphs 2 and 1 of Article 9 of the Constitution. Since Decree-Law No 22 of 2021 amended the previous powers, it must be understood that the new name should, logically and legally, include them under the generic term of culture. However, there is a fundamental and fundamental legal difference between the role of protecting cultural goods and the role of promoting cultural activities, because of the different nature of their objects. While the landscape and the historical and artistic heritage are summaries of things (as stated in the Law of 1 June 1939, n. 1089), that is, of goods that necessarily have a material consistency identified as ordinary assets, object of protection, conservation and restoration (preconditions of the use and valorization of the cultural value of such goods), cultural activities are human behaviors that detect for their intellectual content, rather than for material objects that are supports, instruments or products, which are in turn the object of protection - and no longer of promotion - for copyrights or when the conditions of the intervention of historical interest such as cultural goods apply. A meaning of the term culture that had to depart altogether from the previous dual denomination forcefully including also the actual, unnamed attribution of the protection of cultural goods and the landscape would therefore be so generic and wide as to create an unlimited margin of discretion in this matter, superimposed on the powers of other Dicasteries in the matter of culture (I allude to education, universities and foreign). Obliterating this difference of functions under the overly generic single term of culture, there is also an incongruous mismatch between the protection of cultural goods and the landscape, attributed to the Dicastery by the homonymous code and carried out by more than 640 peripheral bodies of the Ministry and 97 percent of its staff (while the promotion is carried out only by some central offices), and its name. The protection of cultural goods as configured by the code, while having a prerequisite for research and study and an indirect goal of valorization and cultural use, is realized in a series of legal-administrative actions and procedures relating to the material aspect of the goods, which cannot, by their very nature, be considered mere and exclusive cultural activities. And it is not conceivable, as Article 9 of the European delegation law would like, to extend the definition of cultural heritage protection institutions to promote access to those goods, watering down the concept so that if everything is protected, nothing is. The elimination in the Mic of any express reference to cultural goods is finally a clear political signal that their protection would be a function of the Dicastery no longer precipitous and prevalent, but tacit and secondary, in which therefore the intervention of resources can be further reduced. It is therefore necessary to give a positive signal in the opposite sense that it demonstrates the intention of the State not to lower its guard in the protection of cultural goods and the landscape, restoring to the name of the Dicastery the reference expressed to cultural goods (i.e. to the historical and artistic heritage of the Nation and its protection which the Constitution assigns to it as an indispensable task of identity and civilization), or that a new Ministry is created with its own resources and its own Minister - true, not a hit man or a scraper - who actually carries out, with discipline and honor, that task. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u100	She is registered to speak Senator Tiraboschi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u101	Mr President, Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, a reordering of the Ministries (and this is the fourth time we have been discussing a ministerial reorder) is certainly strategic and very important. This is the phase in which we are called to give the organizational structure to a piece of the public administration that, thinking precisely of the two most important ministries and their committees that are set up, gives the idea of what wants to be the model of growth and development of this country. As I see it, this is a fundamental step in relation to the recovery resources coming from Europe, because we know that both the digital part and the ecological transition will absorb 20% and 37% (a total of 57%) of the European Union's resources respectively. This is therefore a fundamental step and, precisely for this reason, we must interpret it in strategic terms. I will focus a great deal on the new Ministry of Tourism, the Ministry of Technology Innovation and, consequently, also on the interministerial committee for digital transition. I would just like to make one comment on the Ministry of the ecological transition - and I say this to the rapporteur and the Government in particular - that, following a change introduced by the House, it is a legal component of the interministerial committee for the security of the Republic; vice versa, this committee is not part of the Ministry for Digital Innovation. This is a bit of a concern, because the two transitions are strongly connected to each other; I do not hide that square the circle between growth, digital innovation and energy transition will not be that simple. However, the Ministry of Digital Innovation should certainly be part of this committee's right. A final comment on the Ministry of the ecological transition: it is hoped that the real challenge of avoiding overlaps, duplications and cross-skills will be tackled in a truly organic way. Some doubts come, because the Minister at the head of this Ministry, and consequently also of the committee, could risk overlapping a series of activities, functions and objectives typical of the new CIPESS (former CIPE); In this sense, I recommend avoiding duplication, which is quite typical of this country. Another very important issue, a fundamental junction, is that of the approval of the Plan for the ecological transition, which we should do within five months of the entry into force of the decree-law to rearrange the Ministries. The vision of the system and especially the strong collaboration with Mise are a fundamental step. I remember that it will not be easy, in this country, to hold together the concept of green and the so-called concept of nymby ("not in my courtyard"), which is very typical of Italian culture. These two concepts, that of green, that represents the transition to this new paradigm, and the fact that you do not want to have photovoltaic fields or wind farms in your territory, will be a theme on which to reflect. I now come to what is particularly dear to me, the new Ministry of Tourism. This Ministry was a little high, in the sense that it never had its own identity. Now, I believe that this identity must take on not only in relation to the serious contingent difficulties that we all know and which must be faced in timely terms, in order to avoid destroying a number of companies in the tourism sector (I refer to everything that concerns the next incentives, support and so on), but I would like it to be understood in strategic terms, as a real industry. Some of you will surely remember that since far 2018 I have said that tourism was the most digital of all industries. Twenty years ago, when the Internet was in its early days, nobody understood the scope of this tool, but tourism understood it before other sectors; this is the historic opportunity to make sense to the tourism industry. Therefore, I wonder how this Ministry, which is not present in the Interministerial Committee of the Digital Transition, can play its role as it is the most digital of all industries. We all know that even those who are less digital to book an air trip or a series of services use the so-called platforms. More than once I said that on this front, that is, on what I call the digital immaterial or the digital economy, we could build a piece of important GDP of the country. We have to bet believing because there is all the unexpressed potential there, that even before the pandemic did not give its visibility in terms of constant and stable growth, of a sector that is an excellence for our country. I would therefore like a reflection to be made on this, just as I would like a reflection on Title V of the Constitution. I refer to Article 117 (r) of our Constitution, which refers to statistical and computerized coordination of the data of the state, regional and local administration. I believe that the dictates of this article must become a living part of the digital design of our Republic as it is precisely starting from the digital coordination that a series of system actions can be implemented. The ministerial reorganization with the creation - I repeat - of the Ministry dedicated to tourism and of a Ministry dedicated to technological innovation must be understood in terms of organizational innovation with a scope of system and, therefore, a strategic scope. We must decline it, however, in operational terms and not leave it alone on paper. Such declination requires an act of courage. I think that the act of courage is also the subsequent deepening of the concept of Made in Italy, which I have always defined as the perfect synthesis of beautiful, good, well done and beautiful Italian living and, that is, the synthesis of Italian tourism and creative industry. It is the most concrete way to hybridize these two sectors, which then serve to relaunch the micro, small and medium enterprises (SMEs) - and not only SMEs - that represent a part of the country's productive backbone and that can happen through a digital enhancement system that cannot escape strategic control and that can actually bring in the niches of the world how much better Italy can express in terms of excellence. You know that the excellences of Italy are many and we can enhance them by intercepting the flows not only national, but also international, identifying that is the so-called users of tourist services, to which we will then go and propose the craft excellences of the Italian creative industry. I am referring to fashion, ceramics, the agro-food sector, food and wine and everything else we know how to express better in our country. That's where, in addition to digital infrastructure, the GDP growth that I... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] . .quantify at least 3 points of GDP. I remind everyone once again that this was a sector that even before the pandemic was not sufficiently valued and promoted in the world. The opportunity has come to do so. Let's believe it and do it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u102	Senator Pazzaglini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u103	Mr President, allow me to start with a thought for Brumotti, who was attacked again a few hours ago as he carried out a service for "Squeeze the news" and there would be so much to say about it and for this reason I prefer not to say anything. I merely express to him my personal closeness and, I imagine, of the whole Group of which I am a member. [[Applause]] Today's debate concerns the conversion of Decree-Law No 22 of 1 March 2021, which lays down urgent provisions on the reorganization of the powers of the Ministries. It is often said that form is substance, and this, in my opinion, should already make it clear that it is not the usual ordinamental reform, among other things already carried out several times in this legislature. I remember, only as an example, when the responsibilities of tourism were attributed to the Ministry of Agricultural Policy and when, subsequently, in the Government Count 2, the responsibilities of tourism were always returned to the Ministry of Cultural Heritage, a choice which, among other things, I did not share and on which I had always expressed myself from these benches. In this case we are creating what will be the backbone of the policy of the coming years, because this measure is not an end in itself, but is functional to the implementation of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. This means that the policy of the coming years, perhaps even of the next few years, also in view of the fact that the very important resources of the recovery fund, will inevitably be influenced by what we are doing now, will be used on the basis of what we are discussing today, that is, the structure that we are giving ourselves with the reorganization that is the subject of today's debate, regardless of who will be leading the next government, from which will be the next majority and from which will be the political ideologies of those who will go to govern in the coming years. That is why the debate, in my opinion, is particularly important and must be carried out with a view not only to the reorganization of itself, but rather to how we want or would like this reorganization to have a real effect on the lives of all of us. In fact, the organization-structure-action-objective sequence never before had such a correlation; never before had these passages had such a significance of consequences for the daily life of all of us. I recall that Article 2 of this decree-law reorganizes the competences, even changing the denomination, of the former Ministry of the Environment, which becomes Ministry for the ecological transition, in a small nation (Italy has an area of little more than 300,000 square kilometers), with a population of little less than 60 million inhabitants. This means that we have a population density of just under 200 inhabitants per square kilometre. For those who do not realize what it means, let us consider that China has a population density of 153 inhabitants per square kilometre: Italy therefore has a population density higher than that of China. Therefore, the strong anthropization that characterizes our territory must make us understand that everything that will affect the environmental policy of the current Government, but also of the future, will inevitably have direct repercussions on the life of all of us. That is why, in my opinion, we should focus on the concrete scope of what we are going to approve. Before I go into the details of the content of Article 2, which, as a member of the Environment Commission, I am particularly interested in, I would like to allow myself a small digression on Article 1, which establishes the Ministry of Tourism. I do this not only because it is the first provision contained in the decree-law under consideration, but also because, always from these benches, a year and a half ago, when discussing the transfer of the competences of tourism from the Ministry of Agricultural Policy to the Ministry of Cultural Heritage, I wished to create a special Ministry, because I argued that tourism represented a very important part of GDP and the image of our country. For a whole series of considerations - which I am not repeating now - I supported the opportunity to create, precisely, a special Ministry of Tourism; so, obviously, although a year and a half later, I can only be very satisfied with this choice. As I said before, tourism accounts for between 13% and 14% of GDP; It is not easy to calculate because then you have to consider also all the induced that creates. In any case, regardless of whether it is 13, 14, 15 or even 20 percent, if we consider the broad scope of all that is included in the tourism world, the fact remains that this sector is a fundamental element for our economy, even more so if we consider that more than 40 billion of the economic return from the tourism sector comes from foreign tourism. This means that for our trade balance 40 billion in positive comes from foreign tourism; that is, they are resources that residents in other countries bring in our country feeding our economy: 40 billion. If we consider that the total amount of the recovery fund is just over 200 billion, while these 40 billions arrive every year, we should understand how fundamental it is for our economy. In addition to the direct economic consequences, there are indirect consequences, because it is clear that tourism represents our image. Some colleagues earlier pointed out how appealing we are at world level, how much the image of Italy still represents an added value and how much Italy is still one of the privileged destinations throughout the world, perhaps the privileged one if I think, for example, of China, which equates our history, our tradition, our cultural value to theirs. Knowing how nationalist the Chinese are, I believe that this says everything, that explains in a comprehensive way how the image of Italy abroad is a huge value, perhaps not even we always realize. That's why enhancing tourism means enhancing our image and allowing the full realization of that Made in Italy project that should be aimed not only at protecting our products, but also at promoting them abroad. The last consideration for which, in my opinion, tourism is fundamental - allow me with a note of evident pride - is because I am a Marchesian: I come from that Region that the magazine Lonely Planet has indicated as the second most beautiful in the world. Therefore, all these reasons inevitably lead me to think that the realization of the Ministry of Tourism was a useful and appropriate choice, perhaps a bit late, but, as we always say, better late than never. I conclude by pointing out that, although important, although crucial to our economy, however fundamental to our image, that of tourism is a sector in great suffering. We know that in some cases the reduction in turnover has exceeded even 90%: 90% of the contraction in turnover which, for any sector, is a figure that could become mortal; it could become the impediment to the continuation of activity. We cannot, therefore, confine ourselves exclusively to maintaining the policy of the small restaurants that have been there so far, but we must do everything necessary to enable this sector to restart. I am thinking, for example, of catering. I understand that something had to be done, but we cannot continue with measures which I believe are not even effective. Yesterday I had a work lunch with an architect; we took a sandwich that we consumed standing on a wall - moreover, from a sanitary point of view, having been in the sector for twenty-seven years, I don't think that is the ideal solution - and, in addition to having eaten the sandwich in that way, I point out that we had perhaps fifteen other people next to us who had been forced to do the same thing. Therefore, with a view to restarting this sector, let us also consider the proposals of common sense that come from the League for reopenings and for the management of the coming months, which will be fundamental. [[Applause]] If we talk about tourism, one month is not worth the other: August is not equal to March or February. The induced, the activities, the turnover, the economy that we have lost in our mountains with the closure of the ski resorts will no longer recover them for this year. So we have to figure out what it takes and it's essential to do something now... [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u104	Senator Pazzaglini, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u105	Crazy people (L-SP-PSd'Az). I immediately come to the competences assigned to the Ministry for the ecological transition. This Ministry has old responsibilities, which it inherited from the old Ministry of the Environment, but also new responsibilities. Evidence that when it comes to ecological transition, it must be borne in mind that there is a huge risk of ideologicalizing the choices and the politics of this Ministry, without realizing that the old adage is paved with good intentions in this case is more true than ever. Let me give you a concrete example. To say that the government encourages... president. The example seems to me to be excessive since it is coming to an end. Come to the conclusion, please. Crazy people (L-SP-PSd'Az). To say that the government encourages electric traffic means to have, as an immediate consequence, the fact that those who thought to change an old car for a new one do not do so, waiting to know what the government's policy on this matter will be. Therefore, the intention and the will would be to improve what are the emissions of polluting gases into the atmosphere, but in reality the result is that keeping the machines old, you no longer get the desired result. I understand, Mr President, that unfortunately time is not my ally, so I conclude, hoping that ideology will not prevail, but common sense and that it will be understood that these decisions, having direct consequences on the lives of all of us, will have to be well thought out, but above all concrete. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u106	Senator Corbetta is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u107	Mr President, since February, Italy has been the third country in the world to be endowed with a Ministry for the ecological transition. This super Ministry combines the powers of the Ministry of the Environment with those of the Ministry of Economic Development in the field of energy and is born together with an extremely important body placed within the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, which takes the name of the Interministerial Committee for the ecological transition. This Committee, chaired by the Head of Government, with the Minister for the ecological transition as Vice-President, is responsible for ensuring the coordination of all national policies for the ecological transition, such as the reduction of climate gas emissions, sustainable mobility, the contrast of hydrogeological failure and soil consumption, adaptation to climate change, water resources, air quality, circular economy and environmental subsidies. The reason for the presence of the 5 Star Movement in the Government is precisely this: the birth of the Ministry for the ecological transition and the Interministerial Committee for the ecological transition. The ecological and solidarity transition was in fact the non-negotiable condition that we placed on President Draghi to participate in his Government of national unity. Today we are in fact living a unique and unrepeatable historical moment. We begin with difficulty to glimpse the possibility of emerging from the system crisis caused by Covid. The crisis has caused enormous health, social and economic damage, which the country is still suffering, but we are all confident that in some time we can focus on recovery. This, as I said, is an exceptional historical moment; we have a country to rebuild, we have a large amount of money available, very precise European guidelines regarding the use of money for environmental sustainability and a government of national unity chaired by a strong President of the Council at international level. There are therefore all the conditions to make that change of pace towards the ecological transition that the Movimento 5 Stars has always demanded and that will necessarily involve all political forces. Everyone will have to start thinking about the future of our country from here to 2050. The Ministry of the ecological transition and the Interministerial Committee for the ecological transition will have the task of coordinating the action of the entire Government in order to deal cross-cuttingly with the three major crises that we are experiencing: the social crisis, the ecological crisis and the economic crisis. Let's start with the social crisis. The transition will not only be ecological: it will be an ecological transition and solidarity. If we want all citizens to participate actively, we must lift them from economic insecurity and fear of tomorrow, reducing inequalities. The transition is for everyone and for everyone, or it will be for no one. As far as the ecological crisis is concerned, the problems of sustainability have been known for at least seventy years, but so far we have done very little. We are used to chasing and buffering the emergencies of the present, referring solutions to the future, without intervening on the causes and without worrying about the long-term consequences. Launching the ecological and solidarity transition requires a change of perspective to policy: to act in the present, of course, but to build Italy in 2050. It is a commitment that belongs not only to Movimento, but to all political forces. The urgency of 2021 and the pension for 2050 must be combined, not hindered. In the transition, the issue of energy is important, but the solution is not simply to switch from fossil energy to renewable energy; a much wider change is needed involving habits, lifestyles, mentality and objectives. So far we have geared all our efforts to get more production, more work, more earnings, more things. With the transition we will recognize the value of people, the quality of work, time, relationships and life. We will use intelligence to live with more satisfaction but with less energy, less materials, less work at the same level of well-being. The slogan must be: less power, more intelligence. Finally, we come to the economic crisis. Of course, the economy has a lot to do with the ecological transition. Climate upheaval is not just an environmental problem, it is a huge economic problem, the most serious one we have. It endangers the economy, growth, finance, causes unemployment, poverty and migration. All this is a very high economic cost, a huge cost that increases more and more because of our delay. We have been delaying change for 50 years. The ecological transition will also cost, it is true, but it will still be much less than the cost of not doing it. In 2006, British economist Stern calculated that acting on the climate immediately would cost ten times less than not; today, in 2021, after fifteen years, the cost of not acting has almost doubled. Beyond the different environmental sensitivities, it is clear that the economic motivations for implementing the ecological transition are very strong and call into question all the political forces, who must have the foresight to look to Italy in 2050. Italy is among the first countries in the world to engage in this challenge. Some people will not be easily convinced (it is normal), just as in the seventies nobody understood the sense of the Ministry of the Environment created in New Zealand; then in time all the countries have established one. The direction, therefore, is clear: in the coming years the ecological transition will come to the center of the political agenda of many countries. On the ecological transition we cannot divide between the right and the left, there are no ideologies that hold: it is reality that imposes a necessary and urgent change on us. All the political forces from here to 2050 are called upon to take up the challenge, to make their contribution with the utmost commitment. The ecological transition is not a flag of the Movimento 5 Stars, it must be a flag of all and for all [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u108	The general debate is closed. I suspend the sitting until 2.30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 13.09 p.m. and resumed at 14.32 a.m.) The rapporteur and the representative of the Government do not intend to intervene in the reply. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and on the amendments, which will be published in the annex to today's report. I note that the amendments are intended to refer to the articles of the decree-law to be converted, in the text including the amendments made by the House of Deputies. We shall proceed with the examination of the amendments to Article 1 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u109	Mr President, words are important because they shape thought and shape ideas. Therefore, with Amendment 1.1 we are certainly not talking about form, but substance. With this amending proposal, in fact, we ask that in point 8) of the list referred to in Article 2 of Legislative Decree No. 300 of 30 July 1999, and wherever it is used, the Ministry of the ecological transition (Mite) should not be removed the part of the designation that refers to the environment and to the protection of the territory and the sea, but that only the new purpose, the new mission that the Ministry gives itself should be added. Therefore it should be called, more properly, the Ministry of the Environment, the protection of the territory and the sea and the ecological transition "Mattme." The term "protection" is in fact a term which, not by chance, is used many times in our Constitution, because it indicates a precise obligation, in defense of a precise right and, right now, in the first permanent Commission is trying to strengthen this obligation of protection, through the draft constitutional law n. 83. It is true that today's ecological transition is a priority and concerns many of the actions related to protection, because it responds to the need to reduce the ecological footprint that is burdened on our planet due to pollution and climate change. The transition, however, denotes only a mission, a need, a purpose that the Ministry intends to put in place to transit, i.e. to move from an "A" point, that of today, to a "B" point, of tomorrow. We do not understand why we should lose the reference to the environment, to the protection of the territory and the sea and end up not finding in the Interministerial Committee for the ecological transition (CITE) the important Ministry of the environment and the protection of the territory and the sea that we had. In point 14 - and I will finish now, Mr President - we ask that the adjective "public" be added with reference to the Ministry of Health. I remember what Gino Strada said when the hypothesis of becoming Minister of Health was revealed for him: if it had happened, the first thing he would have done would have been to reinsert the "public" qualification for the Ministry of Health. It is right and this pandemic has, as never before, demonstrated and shown us. We must also remember that the adjective "public" was in the name of the Directorate-General for Health (public) and that of the High Commission for Health and Health (public), while all private activities should be dealt with by a special Ministry, by Mise, for example. These are the same reasoning behind the proposal referred to in point 11), so it is requested that the Ministry of Education should return to its name as the Ministry of Education, as it was called at least for the duration of the second Prodi Government and up to the fourth Berlusconi Government. In the event of a negative opinion on this amendment, I shall now announce its withdrawal and request that it be turned into an agenda. I would also ask that I be able to sign Amendment 1.2, first signed by Senator De Petris.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u110	Mr President, in the Commission we withdrew amendment 1.2 and asked for it to be changed to the agenda, which was accepted by the Government as a recommendation. We therefore withdraw the amendment here too and, as we did in the Commission, we are calling for it to be turned into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u111	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u112	Mr President, I am against Amendments 1.1, 1.3, 1.4 and 1.5. On the other hand, the G1.2 agenda is accepted as a recommendation.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u113	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u115	Mr Nugnes (Misto-Leu). Mr President, I would ask you to be able to sign the G1.2 agenda at the first signature of Senator De Petris.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u116	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u117	Senator Nugnes, having said that we have obviously taken note of your signing of the G1.2 agenda, which has been accepted as a recommendation, does you withdraw amendment 1.1, which has been voted against, as you subscribe to the agenda?
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u118	If we do not accept the change to the agenda, I would ask that it be put to the vote, because it does contain other indications than the agenda G1.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u119	Does he therefore withdraw amendment 1.1 to turn it into an agenda? Mr Nugnes (Misto-Leu). Yes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I call on the rapporteur to comment on this.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u120	I did not understand whether amendment 1.1 was withdrawn or withdrawn and turned into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u121	Senator Nugnes asks to turn it into an agenda. What would be the opinion, if any? Mr Grimani, rapporteur. We need to assess the agenda with the government representative. PRESIDENT. - The debate is In the meantime, we shall proceed with the vote on the other amendments. Mr Grimani, rapporteur. Yes, to allow the government to make an assessment.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u122	As the authors do not insist on the vote, the G1.2 agenda is accepted as a recommendation. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.3 tabled by Senators La Russa and Totaro. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.4, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.4, tabled by Senator Urso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.5, tabled by Senator La Russa and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). On Amendment 1.1, I would like to ask the rapporteur and the representative of the Government whether there is a willingness to turn it into an agenda and, if so, what would be the opinion?
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u123	Mr President, the opinion is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u124	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u125	Senator Nugnes, there was an opinion against the change of amendment 1.1 to the agenda. I would ask you if you would like to put Amendment 1.1. Mr Nugnes (Misto-Leu). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). 14.47 p.m. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas referred to in Article 2 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u126	Mr President, with Amendment 2.3, following a change that has been introduced by the House, which has incorporated the Myth into the Interministerial Committee for the Security of the Republic (which we all know what tasks it carries out, relating to information and security policy), I ask whether the Ministry of Technology Innovation and the digital transition can also be included, given that there is affinity with content.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u127	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u128	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u129	Mr President, I am against Amendments 2.1, 2.2 and 2.3. On the G2.1 agenda, the opinion supports the adoption as a recommendation with a rewording. We ask that the words "in the next useful measure" be expunged from the commitment. I am in favour of the G2.2 agenda. On the G2.3 agenda, the opinion was in favour if, at the end of the first commitment, the words 'look forward' were expunged until the end of the paragraph. The opinion was in favour of the second and third commitments.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u130	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u131	Senator Toninelli, do you accept the proposed reformulation of the agenda G2.1? Toninelli (M5S). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Nugnes, do you accept the proposed reformulation of the agenda G2.3? Mr Nugnes (Misto-Leu). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let us move on to Amendment 2.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.1 tabled by Senators La Russa and Totaro. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.2, tabled by Senators La Russa and Totaro. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.3. TIRABOCHI (FIBP-UDC). I'm gonna drop it, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Amendment 2.3 has been withdrawn. As the authors do not insist on the vote, the G2.1 agenda (text 2) is accepted as a recommendation. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G2.2 and G2.3 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. We shall proceed with the examination of the amendment to Article 3 of the Decree-Law, which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u132	Mr President, the opinion on Amendment 3.1 is against.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u133	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that expressed by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u134	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.1, tabled by Senators La Russa and Totaro. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall proceed with the examination of the amendments and agendas relating to Article 4 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u135	Mr President, I would add my signature to Amendment 4.1. Article 4 of the measure provides for the establishment of an interministerial committee for the ecological transition, in the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, which will include a number of important ministries: ecological transition, economy and finance, economic development, sustainable infrastructure and mobility, labour and social policies and agricultural, food and forestry policies. We believe that this Committee should also include the Minister for Tourism, in view of the fact that tourism is a human activity that, more than ever before, is traveling towards a system of sustainability also within it, which can therefore become educational in a virtuous way, in the sense of respect for territories and landscapes. In other words, you can get active and proactive tourism. In our view, it is very appropriate that the Ministry of Tourism should be part of the Interministerial Committee for the ecological transition. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u136	Mr President, I withdraw Amendment 4.13
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u137	Mr President, I would like to explain the explanatory statement and the spirit of the G4.1 agenda, namely that there should be no overlap between roles and tasks on the part of the ministerial structures in place with any existing Commissioners, with both economic and, above all, bureaucratic savings.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u138	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u139	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u140	Mr President, I am against Amendments 4.1 to 4.11. I am in favour of the G4.1 agenda, if the commitment is reworded as follows: To ensure that the tasks assigned to the government commissioners already in place are properly monitored, assessing the possible rationalisation, with the aim of making the planning and management of the activity easier and more effective. I am in favour of amendment G4.2 if the commitment is reworded as follows: Evaluate the opportunity to identify the structure that will provide the Cite with support for the planning, adoption and monitoring of the ecological transition plan, ensuring that the economic resources allocated by the State and the European Union for the protection of the environment and the sustainable development of the territory are used according to the criteria of efficiency, effectiveness, cost-effectiveness, simplicity and transparency.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u141	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u142	Senator Rufa, do you accept the rewording of the G4.1 agenda proposed by the rapporteur? RUFA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Quarto, do you accept the rewording of the agenda G4.2 proposed by the rapporteur? FOURTH (M5S). Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u143	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u144	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u145	GALLONE (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I withdraw Amendment 4.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u146	Amendment 4.1 has been withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.2, tabled by Senators La Russa and Totaro. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.3, tabled by Senators La Russa and Totaro. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.4, tabled by Senators La Russa and Totaro. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.5, tabled by Senators La Russa and Totaro. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.6, tabled by Senators La Russa and Totaro. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.7, tabled by Senators La Russa and Totaro. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.8, tabled by Senators La Russa and Totaro. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 4.9, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 4.9 tabled by Senators La Russa and Totaro. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 4.10, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.10, tabled by Senators La Russa and Totaro. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 4.11, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.11, tabled by Senators La Russa and Totaro. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 4.12 and 4.13 have been withdrawn. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G4.1 (text 2) and G4.2 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. We shall proceed with the examination of the amendments to Article 6 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u147	Mr President, Amendment 6.0.1 concerns the establishment of the Ministry of the South to structure a Dicastery that can solve the southern issue, which has never been resolved by any government to date. It has been turned into an agenda, which the Commission has accepted and which I thank for the work it has done.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u148	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u149	Mr President, I am against Amendment 6.1. Amendment 6.0.1, which has been turned into an agenda, is accepted as a recommendation by including in the undertaking the words: "to assess the desirability of" being added.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u150	Senator Siclari, do you accept reformulation and acceptance as a recommendation? SICLARI (FIBP-UDC). I accept.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u151	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u152	Let us move on to Amendment 6.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 6.1 tabled by Senators La Russa and Totaro. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). As the authors do not insist on the vote, the agenda for G6.0.1 (text 2) is accepted as a recommendation. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 7 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u153	Mr President, I am against Amendments 7.1 to 7.5.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u154	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u155	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.1, tabled by Senator Mallegni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u156	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u157	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u158	MALLEGNI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, we withdraw Amendments 7.3 and 7.4.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u159	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.5, tabled by Senators La Russa and Totaro. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendment and the agenda relating to Article 8 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u160	Mr President, I am opposed to amendment 8.1 and to the G8.1 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u161	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u162	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.1, tabled by Senators La Russa and Totaro. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the G8.1 agenda will not be put to the vote. We now come to the examination of the amendment to Article 10 of the Decree-Law, which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u163	Mr President, I am against Amendment 10.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u164	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u165	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.1 tabled by Senators La Russa and Totaro. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u166	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u167	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u168	Grimani (IV-PSI). Mr President, the adoption of this bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 22 is one of those passages that appear ritual and frequent when new governments are established. Often they are measures that generate controversy, but then, deepening the content of the same, we consider how they serve to redefine the profile of the government action, as in this case. They are therefore measures that aim to rebuild the structure of the Government, according to precise political choices and according to priorities that the Government intends to give itself. It is therefore a legitimate revisiting of the government's structure, which surely corresponds to the needs that today are felt with regard to the answers that need to be given to society in response to the advanced demands, to satisfy those needs and above all to be consequent in the difficult choices that await us. With the conversion of this decree-law we prepare the country for future challenges, starting with that of recovery plan. In fact, a structure is given to the Government, redefining the ministerial structures on the basis of some important principles, especially giving the structure of the Ministries a political connotation through the key words that are inserted in the indications that identify them. Ecological transition, sustainable mobility, technological innovation, tourism, economic development: these are the issues that emerge in our activity of conversion of the decree-law. It starts from the very theme of ecological transition, which is felt by political forces, some of which have a greater political predisposition and commitment on this than others. However, the whole of Parliament is certainly interested and committed to the issue of ecological transition. In this sense, Italy Viva has also carried out its own work of deepening and sharing, through an amendment that has been approved in the Chamber, which has provided the opportunity to involve the Minister of the ecological transition to the Interministerial Committee for the security of the Republic, starting from the consideration that it is a Ministry that will be at the center of strategic policies of investment and development. It is, among other things, a necessary choice, because we know that the competences of this new Ministry will have a heavy impact on the issue of security and the national energy system. This explains why it was proposed that the Minister should have the opportunity to participate in the Interministerial Committee for the Security of the Republic. The measure under consideration, as I said earlier, wants to redefine the structure of the Government, especially to give answers to the questions that will be more frequent in the coming weeks and that are already recurrent. The measure aims to reconstruct the structure of the government in order to give answers in a complicated political and social phase, the post-pandemic one, although the effects of the pandemic are certainly not to be considered exhausted, but are still important. It is clear that we must give answers because we need a public administration prepared, organized, to meet the challenge that Europe too has set us with the 200 billion recovery plan. It will take a public administration that will be able to make those investments quick and fruitful because that is what the country expects. It is clear that the reorganization of the structure of the government does not exonerate Parliament; this is an issue that we absolutely must put ourselves in our debate. All too often in this last year we have opened a conflict between the Government and Parliament; we all remember the phase of the famous DCCM, which put to the attention a contrast between the decision-making power of the Government and the ability to influence Parliament. We must overcome that opposition; there must be a constructive dialectic. Clearly, strengthening the Government must also strengthen Parliament's ability to influence decisions and give significant signals to the Government. Amongst other things, the choice of the Commission to issue decree-laws, as was the case with the text examined in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and as will be the case in the coming weeks with the provision setting out the first reopenings from 26 April, has been chosen a strategy of greater involvement of Parliament, which will have to convert those decree-laws. Therefore, there are no more decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers to the attention of Parliament. A step forward has been taken and it is clear that, in order to continue to respond to the heavy needs that this post-pandemic phase will pose, we need an authoritative policy and we expect that this new set-up will enable us to give effective and timely answers especially to businesses and families, who are the subjects who are paying the hardest in this complicated phase of pandemics. We must give answers, therefore, to fight the discomfort and to accompany the new season of reopening the country, which much of the same expects to return to real life and restore momentum to the economy. With the hope of providing the country with concrete answers in terms of the effectiveness of public administration, in order to meet the needs that society puts us to fight the virus and give a clear signal of restarting activities and life, we intend to vote in favour of this measure. We are convinced that this is a further push for government policies and the relationship with Parliament to restore momentum to the country and a new perspective after this complicated phase of managing the effects of the pandemic. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u169	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u170	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u171	Mr Urso (FdI). Mr President, as the Brothers of Italy we regret having to vote against this measure, which concerns an institutional aspect of the life of the Government and of Parliament, that is, the reorganization of the Ministries. We regret to have to do this because, in doing so, we must point out that at the basis of this reorder there is nothing that should have determined it. In fact, to some extent, the measure makes the Executive less (and no longer) effective in its actions, and makes it more difficult for Parliament to deal with the Government in the exercise of its powers. We do so and we say so well knowing that today - and I am addressing above all the left who inherited from Christian Democracy the presumption of being the party of the institutions, which was once represented, precisely, by Christian Democracy, to the left, heir in part of that tradition, which had the presumption of interpreting the sense of the State and of the institutions regardless and which, on the other hand, has not done this for a long time and does not do so with this measure - it is precisely the Italian right that has to assume on itself the responsibility of guaranteeing democratic legality, of ensuring the proper functioning of Parliament, its executive bodies and its guarantee committees. It is precisely the Italian right that must take on responsibility, in the absence of a majority party that does so fully, to balance the effectiveness of the Commission with the tasks of Parliament. Unfortunately, we also need to highlight this in the measure we are examining. It is certainly not the first time that the Government has changed the architecture of the Government with a decree-law; indeed, since the Bassanini reform dates back to the end of 2000, that is, since the legislature started in 2001, each Government has made some changes to the structure of the Ministries, but doing so at the beginning of the legislature. This was the case with the Berlusconi Government in 2001, which for the first time implemented the Bassanini reform with the agreement of the Ministries and did so even if that reform had been drawn up by the left. Who makes sense of the State, in fact, does not change the State with the change of the Government. [[Applause]] The Berlusconi Government applies the Bassanini reform. I was delegated to foreign trade, which was merged, as a result of that reform, to the Ministry of Economic Development, then the Ministry of Productive Activities. To change at the beginning of the legislature with some changes, allows to realize the effect of those same modifications. Dear parliamentary colleagues, who has been to the Government - and among you many have been, even during this parliamentary term - knows that when you come together or separate a Ministry, when you change the functions of a department, it takes years to carry out the measure. It takes years to transfer staff, skills and to exercise them. It takes years. That is why it was first done at the beginning of the parliamentary term. So it happened in 2001, so it happens with the Prodi Government in 2008. The left, which had achieved the Bassanini reform by merging the Ministries, returned to the Government with Prodi, split the Ministries; international trade returns to be a Ministry and so also others. In this way he loses, without realizing it, his institutional soul, sacrificing it to political interests. However, it does so at the beginning of the parliamentary term and Mrs Bonino becomes Minister for International Trade, which in turn is separated and, at the same time, Minister for European Policy, two delegations in one; legitimate, but we are at the beginning of the parliamentary term. This is also the case when Berlusconi returns to the government in 2008. At the beginning of the legislature, the Ministries reunited, following the architecture of the State of Bassanini, which the left has conceived and not realized. Do you realize what you're doing? How did you become a soul, losing that function of democratic and institutional legality? However, it is done at the beginning of the parliamentary term. We assume the responsibility to follow the reform of the Ministries indicated by the Bassanini reform, and we merge the Ministries that you have separated. Personally, I'm going back to being a vice minister. However, we come to later legislation. At a certain point, in the XVII legislature, there is the frenzy and, first with the Letta Government and then with the Renzi Government, two changes take place; little, however, two minor changes because still there remains a sense of the culture of the State: in Letta, of course, and then in Renzi. We come to this legislature. How many reforms have you made of government architecture? I say this because some ministers have remained in the first and second Count Government and then in the Dragon Government; some have been Ministers in the first Count Government and not in the second, but now they are again in the Dragon Government. Three governments with an evolving majority that has the same order, in which the leading party is the Movimento 5 Stars, change for three times in three years the architecture of the Executive, but it is not enough a year to apply the provisions that you reform: it is a game of the goose! You have adapted institutions and enslaved them to political interests, sometimes personal interests. [[Applause)!]] You do not realize what you are doing to the sense of the state that you must transmit citizens. The example is striking with the Ministry of Tourism: in the first government of this legislature is merged with the Ministry of Agricultural, Food and Forestry Policies, because it was necessary to balance the Minister of Economic Development, entrusted to the 5 Stars, with another productive Ministry entrusted to the League; with the second government, after a year, it is separated by the Ministry of Agricultural, Food and Forestry Policies and merged to the Ministry for Cultural Heritage and Activities, why do you say no to Franceschini who needs to go back there? So he gets merged back to that Dicastery. With the third government in three years (I don't know if you realize this), since the same Minister of Agricultural, Food and Forestry Policies of the first government could not obtain that Ministry, which had been granted to a former Minister of Economic Development to give it a satisfaction, you recreated the Ministry of Tourism. This isn't happening! You cannot use institutions at your liking! We are not there, you cannot enslave the State to the logic of political or personal interests. We are not there, even though in the original reordering of this Government there was a political indication that we share, where here the President of the Council Draghi, who suffered all this, had rightly said that we had to focus on digital and ecology understood as green energy - and we are on this road - so the Ministry of the ecological transition was created. You created it by distorting it, because at the very moment when you established it you had to break the power of the Ministry of Economic Development for political interests and even transferred to the Ministry of the ecological transition some energy aspects that have nothing to do with that Dicastery. All this is so artificial that to make up for some directing booths, still causing institutional confusion. This is not the case, it cannot go even where there was a right vision, as on digital. But it is not enough to change the name of the Ministry of Innovation to drive the new economy of the country, just as it is not enough to combine energy with the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea to make it really a Ministry of the ecological transition. This isn't happening. We regret the country, but the Italian right knows that it must act in this Parliament and at this time to safeguard the institutions, the balance of powers and the democratic rules that unfortunately, with today's demonstration, trampled on. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u172	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u173	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u174	VALENT (PD). Mr President, I shall confine myself to just a few issues that I have heard during this debate, because I believe that this decree-law raises points to which it is right to reply, and it is right to do so even when - and I believe this is the case - a measure comes with parliamentary support and a very broad majority, to which the Democratic Party has made a contribution that we reaffirm with conviction today. First of all, I would like to talk about the issue of the legitimacy of a decree-law with this content. There was someone who said that before me, but I really want to say it again. 15.30 a.m. (Following VALENT). There is no doubt that every Government has the right - I would even say the duty - to shape the organisation of the Commission on the basis of its programme plan, that programme which has received Parliament's confidence. This clearly does not mean doing and undoing everything every time and, on the other hand, this would not be the case. But it is clear that each Government has the understandable need to give itself a ministerial and administrative structure consistent with its own political orientation, always moving within the framework established by law n. 400 of 1988, which is and remains the ordinamental lighthouse of this field. It is clear, however, that a political project must find support in a structure and for this reason the structure must be able to have its own flexibility. Then there is a second question, which I particularly care about, at this particular stage as the one we are going through. We concluded a fundamental debate a few weeks ago on the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, in which we provided suggestions, each according to our legitimate proposals, to make the best use of the large amount of resources that we could have available through the European Support Plan. Here, in that debate, everyone, in a shared way, we have recognized that digital transition and ecological transition are two strategic axes on which the future of our country will be built. I would add that, if that is true, it is not, however, assumed that those same transformations are in themselves fair, inclusive and democratic. The changes we have on the horizon, starting, for example, from measures against climate change, will have effects on citizens and families; effects that need to be governed, otherwise the risk is that they will have a profoundly unequal and unfair impact on citizens. But if it is true what we have all agreed on in the debate on the PNRR report, then today with this decree we can - I say we must - be consequent and consistent, because those were choices of political direction; today instead they become concrete and material palimpsests to put in place that clarification of government. The two fundamental choices of this decree - on the one hand, therefore, Ministry for the ecological transition and, on the other, Ministry for the digital transition - I believe are exactly the coherent and logical continuation of those perspectives on which there has been a debate and a sharing first in the Commissions and then here in the Chamber. I would add something that I think is noteworthy: there have been those who have raised some concerns about the fact that behind the new structure of the Ministry for the ecological transition there is an ideological system that would contrast the protection of the environment and economic development of the country. On this subject we should all remember that similar issues were raised cross-cuttingly when the Ministry of the Environment was set up in 1986. And we have seen in the following years that those risks were not only not there, but they were even exaggerated, and experience has shown that it was not at all an obstacle the Ministry, so understood, to the economic and industrial development of the country, but has been its precious resource. I would add that this is also a guarantee, especially from the point of view of relations with the regions, because the presence of a Ministry of the Environment at the table of the Council of Ministers has led to demanding regional laws, which, in violation of Article 117 of the Constitution, went against modern environmental protection. If we look at today there is even more: the choices made by the decree under consideration in terms of the competences and functions of this Ministry, starting naturally from the field of energy and mining policies, are the premise for it to become a reference point in order to direct all policies towards a goal of sustainability that must be national and that moves in a global context. In this there is no ideological matrix, there is no counterpart offered to keep the majority together, things I have also heard. On the contrary, there is the concrete will to achieve an objective, from which the modernization of our country will probably pass. The same applies to the Ministry for Digital Transition, which will have an important coordinating role on reform actions which, as we know, will have to be cross-cutting. I would add that even the choice to give a targeted and autonomous competence on tourism, on which we have been discussing for some time and which after this year of pandemic becomes inevitable, is not only a symbolic choice, but is also the almost natural outlet of a real and absolutely non-instrumental need. A final point which has been raised in this debate and which is indeed sensitive concerns the procedures adopted for the reorganisation of the Ministries. We know that internal reorganisation is dependent on the procedure laid down in Law No 400 of 1998, which is actually articulated in many passages. The evidence is that since 2012 a simplified procedure has been adopted, through decrees of the President of the Council by way of derogation and that are now reproduced also by the decree under consideration. Everyone sees the advantages of this path, because it avoids the complications of Article 17 of the aforementioned law, gives greater flexibility to the organization of the Ministries, but we must also know that in this way the opinion of the Commissions is skipped, which instead is provided for by the ordinary procedure. Probably for the decree-law under consideration there were no other roads; but, if for years the solution is used by way of derogation, it is the sign of a real function that exists. For the future something different can be sought, in order to balance both the need for simplification and flexibility, and the participation of Parliament, because it is in the mutual involvement of Parliament and Government that our system stands. In conclusion, I have referred to the three changes that are the cornerstone of this measure, but above all they are a coherent and fair choice, as well as fully legitimate. That is why we shall be voting in favour of this measure. Behind them, however, there is also a challenge that all stakeholders will have to grasp; a cultural challenge that involves politics, but that also involves the competent levels of ministerial administrations. The sense of creating cross-cutting levels of decision-making between different ministerial powers is strong, if these committees function and have real effectiveness. If, on the other hand, the decision-making centre moves outside, on the other hand, their function remains only nominal and I think it would not be good. In this direction it is a good signal, albeit only an initial one, that Parliament will be involved, with the opinion of the Commissions, in the plan for the ecological transition proposed by the new interministerial committee for the energy transition. This is the path we must pursue, so that what we are preparing to change in the structure of the Ministries is also affirmed in the quality of the policies, as a true element of novelty, concrete and lasting over time. For these reasons, I am voting in favour of the Democratic Party. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u175	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u176	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u177	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, some of the arguments that have just been put forward by my colleague Senator Urso are not peregrine - I say this quite frankly - because unfortunately, over the years and according to the changes in government, the habit of changing, merging or fragmenting the Ministries has prevailed. This is certainly not a good thing - in my opinion - because it certainly poses a very serious problem of state architecture, on which to approve reforms, to which in some way to be faithful. However, I would also like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to another argument, because it is clear that, when a government takes office, not only is there a programmatic speech by the President of the Council in the parliamentary classrooms in order to receive a vote of confidence, but the indications and the programmatic profile rightly reflect the consequences from the point of view of operational transposition. This is the point and therefore the decree under consideration - as well as others we have seen in the past - indicates the path of the government's work priorities. From this point of view there are extremely positive facts, which constitute a priority of the current Government, but which in some way were also earlier and which in the architecture of the Ministries have become much more concrete. The new and relevant fact is the constitution of the Ministry of the ecological transition. I say in premise, before continuing the reasoning, that in order to ensure a real, real and effective action of modification - as indicated also the second mission of the PNRR on the green transition and the energy one - it would have been necessary a further step forward, combining the Ministry of the environment and the protection of the territory and the sea with that of the economic development. It is clear to everyone that the transition also involves the transition of production models, with clear indications and the construction around this point of an industrial policy. We have not chosen this path: we have chosen a path that is certainly right, but - in my opinion - not so wide. 15.40 p.m. (De PETRIS follow-up). It was decided to entrust the Ministry of the Environment with powers in the field of energy and mining policies, clearly identifying the main axis in the energy transition. It is also absolutely essential and it is also an innovative element - although there had already been very clear signals with the change in the name of CIPE - the establishment, provided for in Article 4 of the Interministerial Committee for the ecological transition, which is the place not only of policy coordination, but also of true direction and construction of the ability to ensure that on all sectors - we have to act on all sectors - the necessary steps are taken to achieve the transition. This is another element not to be underestimated. I have tabled an amendment, then turned into an agenda, on a question: the establishment of the Ministry of the ecological transition, with the addition of powers in the field of energy and mining policies, cannot erase what have been the historical and primary competences of the Ministry of the Environment, which had over time become the Ministry of the protection of the territory - we know what it means to protect the territory, what it means to govern and intervene in the processes of hydrogeological failure - and of the sea, which is the other great emergency of our country. Our sea, the Mediterranean, does not have trade like oceans and is one of the most suffering for human activities and for the level of pollution from plastics, and not only. The sense of solicitation to the Government and specifically to the Ministry therefore concerns the historical and important competences in the matter of the environment: we think about all the issues of the protection of biodiversity and natural capital, which make Italy a country that still has a wealth, unfortunately endangered day after day, but certainly of primacy at European level. I repeat this in an explanation of vote because it is essential. For me it will always be the Ministry of the ecological transition, the environment and the protection of the territory and the sea: these are its competences. As for the history of that Ministry, it was formed with staff taken on both sides. Today it is not enough just to create a great Ministry and change its name, but it is also necessary to give it and put in place the means, instruments, qualifications and staff able to carry out this great task. These two elements are those that most distinguish the decree-law under consideration and the reorganization of the Ministries at the center of the decree itself. Another issue is technological innovation: in this regard too, the creation of the Interministerial Committee for the Digital Transition is crucial, and we have noticed in this pandemic how much time we have had to recover. We need not only a Ministry - and there is - but also a capacity for coordination and direction, because the transition must be geared to all sectors (economic and state) and to the entire public administration, which are the true element that accompanies and is strongly intertwined with innovation and ecological transition. I would like to make a brief comment on the tourism issue. When the current legislature began, the responsibilities for tourism and agriculture were entrusted to the Ministry itself, while in the subsequent Government the subject of tourism was transferred to the Ministry of Cultural Heritage. Now we're separating him from the Ministry of Cultural Heritage again. This is how we deal with the issue of tourism, which is, among other things, a real emergency today, because it is a question of completely reconstructing the policies of tourism, which is an area that has almost been destroyed by the pandemic and to do this we need to have clear ideas and to know what kind of revival we can do. I have to say that, in the transition from one Ministry to another, perhaps a lot of paper will have been consumed by changing its header, but certainly we have not focused on choices in the field of industrial policies. I believe that today is the real emergency and I hope, announcing the vote in favour of converting the decree into law, that this is the last time we move tourism from one Ministry to another. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u178	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u179	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u180	VITALI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, we have received from the House this measure which I would like to think has been the result not of a becera partition within a majority, not even homogeneous, but of the need to rationalise the organization of some ministries in view and in view of the use of the more than 200 billion euros that from here to a few months - we hope as soon as possible - will arrive in our country. If this is the goal - as I like to believe - it was an appropriate and necessary initiative, and we will evaluate it over time and evaluate it at the end of time, after the National Recovery and Resilience Plan of our country will be fully completed. Among the novelties of the measure, there is the birth of the Ministry of the ecological transition, which replaces the Ministry of the Environment. In this regard, I would like to make one point: if we are talking only about a change of name, we obviously did not take this initiative. I believe there is a completely different philosophy in the Ministry of the ecological transaction, which is very important. And I believe that one of the aims of the resources that will come from Europe is precisely the ecological transition, the fact that the Ministry of the ecological transition is no longer the counterpart of the business world, but is a complement to that world. [[Applause]] I believe that industrialization can live with the protection of nature and the environment. Here the Ministry of the ecological transition has the cultural task of being at the side of the enterprises, of training the enterprises, of giving support to the enterprises so that one has a virtuous circuit in which to be able to insert also the industrial section of our Country. All the competences that have been assigned by splitting them from other Ministries - for example from the Ministry of Economic Development - are absolutely necessary, but they would make little sense if the purpose of the new Ministry was not also to meet the needs of the productive world, but only to sanction and pay in an alternative way to the industrial development of our Country. We have experienced it and we are living it with the tragedy of Ilva - noting that our country is backward in steel production - and we saw it years ago with the fine chemistry that we transferred to foreign groups, who came under the pretext of saving employment but interested only in acquiring market shares, which left us the polluting plants and also the despair of unemployment. I think this Ministry has a nerve role in our country's PNRR. Another novelty, which is a return to the past, is the constitution of the Ministry of Tourism. We were easy prophets when, two years ago, the Ministry of Tourism was incorporated into the Ministry for Cultural Heritage and Activities. We believe that tourism is a fundamental ganglion of the economy in our country and we must compete and compete with countries that, only a few years ago, watched us from afar and that today we are forced to pursue: I am talking about Greece, I am talking about Spain, but also about Croatia. Therefore, the Ministry of Tourism is another fundamental element and it was right - from my point of view - to give it the dignity of a Ministry precisely because it is a crucial element in our economy. Even now, in a moment of pandemic, which we hope to put behind us as soon as possible, it is crucial and fundamental the activity of the Ministry of Tourism, especially in view of the upcoming reopenings; reopenings that we have requested and urged, but that must be not a "free all" but a return to normal life, with intelligence, and knowing that the virus has already produced over 117,000 deaths and serious economic problems. The Ministry of Tourism, also here, has a fundamental importance. However, I must also point out some new features. An amendment introduced to the Chamber introduces the Ministry of the ecological transition into the Interministerial Committee for the Security of the Republic, a strategic political liaison body on the subject of national security. This is even more proof of how crucial and crucial the Ministry is, as is the crucial birth of some interministerial committees that remain in the responsibility and direction of the President of the Council. That of the ecological and digital transition is another appointment that our country cannot and must not miss. A digitization of public administration is a huge boost to the economy of our country, which can turn into points of GDP in our country and must be carried out with reason and commitment so that no one remains behind and everyone can use such innovations. Other things have been said and I do not think it is appropriate and necessary to repeat ourselves. I just want to talk about the MIMS, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Sustainable Mobility. Again, we take advantage of European resources to try to reduce and zeroe the gap between the North and the South. There are territories in which the station is still a mirage. I am not talking about high speed or modern means of transport: I am talking about the actual station. [[Applause]] Therefore, when it comes to sustainable mobility, action must be taken and action must be taken to ensure that the entire national territory has the same opportunities. There is so much talk of the southern question; there is so much talk of being close to the Mezzogiorno. The Mezzogiorno does not want prebende; the Mezzogiorno does not want assistance; the Mezzogiorno wants recognition of its dignity and wants equal opportunities. He wants to have the same opportunities as you have in the other regions of our country. I believe that the Ministry of Infrastructure and Sustainable Mobility is absolutely essential for this type of activity. Then, although we wanted to make some changes to the measure under consideration (changes more than drafting of substance), we realize that the times when he arrived at the Senate of the Republic prevent an amending activity that could put in crisis and prevent his conversion. Therefore, aware of this and with a sense of responsibility, and for the reasons I have stated before, we announce the favorable vote of Forza Italia to the measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u181	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u182	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u183	GRASSI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, reorganising the Ministries is not only an exercise of administrative law, but also an activity that is strictly functional to the political action that a Government intends to express. On this occasion, among other things, the reorganization of the Ministries is particularly important because the current Government is born with the main aim of managing a very serious crisis caused by one of the 10 most serious pandemics that have ever hit humanity. The economic consequences of this pandemic are before our eyes. We know, therefore, that now it is up to us to lead the economic reconstruction of Italy, as well as - but it is superfluous to say so - to guide the country towards the recovery of serenity and good health. Let's not forget, then, that you have to manage the recovery plan funds. To this end, there are three aspects on which this measure focuses. First of all, I think of the Ministry of Tourism. Tourism is the sector most affected by the pandemic. We know that tourism causes a very important share of the country's GDP and that without it the Italian economy cannot restart. Well, then, give life autonomously to a Ministry of Tourism that is able to promote specific interventions for the sector. This is a clear signal that this government is sending to the country. It was the right time to bring together all the state functions in the field of tourism under a single Ministry, so as to allow strategies to be put in place beyond an emerging perspective. Italian tourism is therefore detached from a functional vision also to other important objectives - I think, for example, to the cultural profile - allowing, on the contrary, political action to focus on the relaunch of tourism as money handling. Another substantial aspect concerns the transformation of the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea into the Ministry of the ecological transition and the acquisition by the latter of powers in the field of energy policy for both renewable and non-renewable sources. The new name is not only a linguistic but also a political issue. The stated intention is to work on more sustainable policies. As a Group, we certainly believe that the exploitation and protection of natural resources is important, and as a majority we want to work towards this objective. We trust that we will strike a fair balance - this is a very important step - between environmental protection and policies to support the productive sectors. Attention: it is important that this Ministry pursues intelligent green policies, because not always what appears under the banner of ecology and environmental protection is really such. In some cases a green policy can simply lead to the cover-up of dust and garbage. [[Applause]] Let us think, for example, of the use of electric power: there is now a global tendency to transform the fleet into an electric power park, but the most experienced studies are warning us, pointing out that the unreasonable transition to the electric power plant is likely to lead to another form of pollution. We think about the disposal of batteries and also the risks associated with the supply of raw materials. It will mean that we will move our attention to other countries, where it is possible to find the materials necessary for the production of these batteries. So be careful, because this green challenge, if it is true - as it is true - that it is also an opportunity for growth, must not become a boomerang for the interests of this country. It takes study; investment in research and technology is needed so that the country is able to make reasonable and sustainable ecological choices. The same warning, made the appropriate adjustments, we can use them for the digital transition: we know that this important Ministry has been established. The Intenet network has certainly changed the history of humanity and we still do not fully see its effects, because we are observers too involved to understand the importance of what is happening. In the aftermath of Gutenberg's discovery of the press - we are talking about the first half of the fifteenth century - humanity had still not realized what was going to happen; three hundred years later the Industrial Revolution began. With the Internet everything will be faster, but in this case too we must understand that digital, information, data, data management are notions that require a new way of thinking. Woe if we think of using the Internet according to our old patterns; that digital is not a public administration tool to increase the complexity of procedures to the detriment of citizens. The rules will have to be written according to the higher speed of access to data over the Internet. The League welcomes the establishment of these ministries, but sends a warning: these political and administrative instruments are used with intelligence, culture and competence. For all these reasons, I announce the favorable vote of the party to which I belong, that is the League-Salvini Premier-Party of Sardinian Action. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u184	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u185	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u186	THE ABBATE (M5S). Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to vote on the decree-law on the reorganization of the Ministries, which redefines the functions of the Departments of Energy, Tourism and Digital Innovation and renames the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport in the Ministry of Infrastructure and Sustainable Mobility. For the Mite, the Ministry of the ecological transition, has created a structure that is able to use that little time that unfortunately we have left to overcome an important challenge, the challenge of climate change. And we are not the only ones to say it: climate change is the main challenge of the green new deal strategy and all policies related to this primary objective are now part and take hold of the Mite. I am referring to energy policy, emissions policy, and therefore to the quality of our air, sustainable development, green mobility, policies to combat climate change, without forgetting the most important base and the historical mission of the Ministry: the enhancement of the environment, the territory and the ecosystem, the conservation of protected natural areas and biodiversity and then the circular economy, the reclamations, the protection of the territory and the fight against environmental damage. For us at Movimento 5 Stars the Mite is the Ministry that places as centrality the ecological and solidarity transition, in what is now the era of resilience, and with awareness faces a challenge not only environmental, but also above all social, confronting with great openness and having at heart the future of our generations. In recent months we have seen that the act on the objective of Directive 2021, which gives guidelines for the conservation of biodiversity to national park bodies and protected marine areas, has been signed. The concept of protecting and restoring biodiversity and ensuring the maintenance of ecosystem services has been reiterated. In particular, reference is made to pollinating insects, on which more than 70 percent of agricultural production depends for our food. It is a great start because we are finally quantifying our ecological services, which we have so far considered at zero cost, almost free of charge. There is further news of the last days: the inclusion of the National Park of the Tuscan Archipelago and that of the Casentino Forests on the green list of the International Union for the Conservation of Nature. It is an important recognition - as Minister Roberto Cingolani has commented - because it honours Italy, a country with a magnificent nature that knows how to value this precious resource. It is a recognition not only in terms of biodiversity, but also of the overall management that has been carried out and encourages us to expand the network of Italian protected areas and national parks, which will also be treated and the protagonists of the National Resilience Recovery Plan. Barry Commoner, a famous ecologist, always said that there are no free meals in nature. He was an ecologist. But then the great economist Milton Friedman talked about the opportunity cost. The result was always the same. The opportunity in the end means that, if we take something, it will surely be society that will give up the opportunity to devote the same resources to some other use. We want to say that this economic model clearly has something that has not worked if we have reached this point. When we talk about ecological transition, we say that the transition is moving from an economic model - the one that has created a imbalance between the economic, social and environmental systems - to a system that must be ecological. So let's talk about ecological transition. [[Applause]] It has often been said that the Ministry of the ecological transition will have to simplify and authorize, but let us be careful. And I say this clearly when I meet entrepreneurs, who are our backbone, who tell us that we need to simplify and use, but then also to verify what they do. We need vigilance because in this way we can understand which are the truly virtuous entrepreneurs who have done things right and have not done greenwashing. They are the ones who are working to build a new Italy. [[Applause]] And that we don't want to stop. We want to stop those who unfortunately greenwashing does so and, therefore, we need to monitor and verify. We say, therefore, yes to renewable plants, recycling and the circular economy, but also to the protection of our environment. We have to protect it by checking it out. We must do this because the price of what we take from the planet must be paid: everything that is taken from the environment system, even in free mode, has a cost. Everything we put in the atmosphere - air pollution, NO , thin particulates involving infringements, insufflation in the waters of other pollutants - it has a cost and we are then in a pandemic. And we wonder why? We have reached this level because we have broken the balance and, therefore, the resilience of the system is now in crisis. For this reason and not for other reasons our plan we have called it Recovery and Resilience Plan. Minister Cingolani said in a conference that men produce useless and energy-efficient things and that he does not believe that ever more powerful mobile phones are needed. On the contrary, it is necessary to fix the ecosystem because we have ruined it. Ageing, living long is fine if health is good and living in many on the planet means seeking sustainable balances. This is why I am proud - he said - to belong to the group of scientists who make science for those who come after us. He is not only a scientist, but also a minister, so we trust him and what he has to do. We of the Movimento 5 Stars ask the Government, the Minister and the new Ministry for the ecological transition only one thing: it would be enough for us to apply the precautionary principle. It is a principle of 1982, incorporated in the World Charter of Nature. It explains that activities involving a high degree of risk to nature must be preceded by an in-depth examination; their promoters must demonstrate that the benefits of the activity outweigh any damage to nature and, where the harmful effects of those activities are known imperfectly, they must not be undertaken. I think that's clear. We must, therefore, manage situations of environmental danger, which are very often unknown, complex and accompanied by uncertainty, sometimes even scientific, and by a margin of risk and error. For this reason we of the Movimento 5 Stars have confidence in the Ministry for the ecological transition, for how it is structured and for the harmonious work that it will carry out with the other Dicasteries; we trust in this great step forward and therefore announce a favorable vote on the bill of conversion of the decree-law of reorganization of the Ministries. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u187	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u188	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u189	GRANATO (Mixed). Mr President, today we are voting on the conversion of the decree-law to reorder the Ministries. It is the third government within this legislature that changes the structure of its Ministries. Every time a Government is established, some Ministries change their internal structure and this obviously causes inconveniences, delays and problems for the entire institutional system, for the management of current affairs and for everything extraordinary, unfortunately also according to the National Recovery and Resilience Plan and the current health emergencies, it must be carried out with effectiveness and efficiency. Curious that the Ministries that are modified in their nomenclature and constitution are the two Ministries that deal with common goods: the one that dealt with, deals with and should be concerned with the protection of the cultural and artistic heritage of our country and the one that must be concerned with the protection of the environment. These two ministries, which represented the principals of citizenship, because they served to guard the heritage of citizens in a disinterested way, are now oriented towards other objectives, which are those of the protection of economic and productive interests and processes, as the Ministry for the ecological transition does. We have moved from the protection of the environment, the land and the sea to the protection of an economic and productive process, envisaged in the ecological transition, which should combine the principle of protection with that of energy efficiency and competitiveness. But how does the concept of energy competitiveness match that of environmental protection? The same applies to the Ministry for Cultural Heritage and Activities, which now becomes the Ministry of Culture, inserting a joint venture of activities, including productive activities, which subtract centrality from the protection and conservation of the heritage. All this is part of a neoliberal design that now belongs to the entire parliamentary arc, from which we of Alternative We disassociate ourselves because we believe it is extremely serious that all the common goods of this country are protected only if part of economic processes, therefore not as values, identities and absolute priorities for the active citizenship of our children and future generations. The Alternative There will be no vote on this measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u190	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u191	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u192	Mr Nugnes (Misto-Leu). Mr President, I do not share the enthusiasm that accompanied the installation of this super government of all, especially on what is the part that has excited the most and has convinced the Movimento 5 Stars to give support to this Government. I am referring to the creation of the so-called Ministry of the ecological transition. This is not because it does not think that this concept is absolutely necessary and no longer extendable (it must be absolutely placed, also in the way in which it has been done, in a transversal and overstructured way compared to the other Ministries, to which I would certainly have added that of health, of which I will tell you later) but because what at this point appears to me as a box that overlaps loses the denomination of Ministry of the environment and the protection of the territory and the sea. It has also been said by Mr De Petris very clearly, although you will vote in favour and I will be voting against it. The concept is the same. I cannot forget that in 2013 we wanted to eliminate the Ministry of the Environment and today, in a game of three cards, I see that the Ministry of the Environment has been eliminated. This cannot but arouse concern in me - and in people like me who will vote no - because in ISCED we find all the other ministries dealing with energy and industry, but they will not deal with the environment. It is said that the competences will be the same, but, as I said in the context of the amendments, words are not form, they are substance. Words help to form our perception of reality, and if today we still say the former Ministry of the Environment, tomorrow we will have forgotten the existence of the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea. I am seriously and structurally opposed to this, because I believe that if someone had asked to remove environmental protection from the legislative prerogatives of the Government, from the Constitution, we would have opposed it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator. Mr Nugnes (Misto-Leu). Similarly, I do not share the opportunity we have missed to return to the old denominations of the Ministries of Education and Public Health, because this year's experience has shown us that that is the only direction we must take. The ISCED also includes the Ministry of Health, because the World Health Organization has two objectives: to overcome evil, but also to aim for the benefit of all, which can only be achieved in a healthy environment. That is why I am voting against.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u193	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, composed of only Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u194	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u195	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u196	Bergesio (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the wave of frost devastated many of the agricultural crops in the fruit and vegetable sector and also cereals in our country in the nights of 7 and 8 April. Although data collection is still ongoing, the first estimates indicate that kiwi crops, apricots, plums, peach, nectarines, blueberries, small fruits, hazelnuts have been lost, with fear also for wheat, maize, horticultural crops, pastures, the production of forage, with an incidence of damage ranging from 40 to 60-70 percent of the possible production. It is essential that the government immediately declare the state of emergency and grant certain resources, in order to support the farmers affected by this unpredictable and very serious natural disaster. All the farms affected by the National Solidarity Fund must be accessed immediately, and we have done so before in the case of xylella, so that it can be extended immediately to farms not covered by insurance policies, which will thus be able to obtain compensation for the damage. All this is without prejudice to the need for structural intervention on this crucial issue. Mr President, we all know that insurance companies are certainly not charities and, therefore, as the events to be compensated increase, the rates are constantly rising and the policy conditions are always worsening for farmers and farmers. To do this, it is necessary, from the outset, to increase the funds for risk management for the two years 2021-2022, possibly using the next measures on the deviation that we are going to approve precisely these days. I also say that sometimes copying well is instructive and also means looking around. Neighbor France on the issue of frost in recent days has already established an exceptional Solidarity Fund of one billion euros and assigns an emergency envelope within fifteen days to prefects to provide immediate support to farms in difficulty. I would also like to mention the 150,000 agricultural workers, estimated by the trade unions, who will remain out of work because of the frosts. We suggest immediately a couple of solutions: the first is to allow the Cassa Integrazione Guadagni in derogation to the agricultural not only with the causal Covid, but also with the causal extreme atmospheric adversities or calamities; the second is an immediate modification, as from the amendment that the League has submitted to the decree-law supports, regarding the law no. 223 of 1991, so that there is the possibility to give a strong protection to these workers in difficulty. We have to decide right away and quickly because it is essential to intervene. We cannot leave Italian farmers alone at such a serious and difficult time. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u197	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u198	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u199	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this intervention is shared by everyone, certainly by the members of the 3rd Commission of which I am a member, and it concerns the recurrence of 24 April of the one hundred and seventeenth year of the Armenian genocide. Empires, nations, nationalisms, reason of state, hypocrisy, power are the altars on which one immolates one's humanity, shedding the blood of the innocent buried in the dark folds of history, so as to erase its memory forever and be able to look elsewhere once again. Mr President, I am not going to list the countries that have spent seventy or a hundred years to pronounce the term "genocide" of the Armenian people, recognizing it officially only after. Today, before us, mercilessly those victims look us in the eye and illuminate us in this one hundred and sixth anniversary of the genocide and of the previous crimes committed against the Armenians. April 24 is the day of remembrance of the inhuman cruelty suffered by unarmed men, women and children. Today, tomorrow and in future days we will not forget who threw his soul to the underworld: the then Ottoman Empire and its allies. This crime showed how to scientifically exterminate man, so it happened for the Shoah and the other crimes against humanity. Today we are close to the Armenian people, with our afflicted hearts, with our sorrowful souls, but with the determination that everyone will know and never again practice and conceive such heinous, inhuman crimes against humanity, for peace and respect for ourselves. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u200	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2021-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-318.ana.u201	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Thursday 22 April, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.23 a.m.
